Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16082 TJ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
April 10, 1997
Human Resources Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 25, 1996)
Currency Unit  =  Tajik Rubles
TR 1   =  US$0.0032
IJS$1   =  TR 312
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AKF  - Aga Khan Foundation
ARSP  - Agricultural Recovery and Social Protection Project
CAS  - Country Assistance Strategy
EBRD  - European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU  - European Union
FHH  - Female Headed Household
FSU  - Former Soviet Union
GBAO  - Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous Oblast
GGLS  - Group Guaranteed Loans and Savings
GNP  - Gross National Product
IBTA  - Institution Building and Technical Assistance Project
IMF  - International Monetary Fund
MIS  - Management Information System
PHRD  - Population and Human Resources Development (grant)
PPAP  - Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project
PRDP  - Pamir Relief and Development Program
SCF-UK  - Save The Children Fund (UK)
SCF-US  - Save The Children Federation (US)
TASIF  - Tajikistan Social Investment Fund
UNDP  - United Nations Development Program
UNHCR  - United Nations High Commission for Refugees
UNICEF  - UJnited Nations Children's Fund
USAID  - United States Agency for International Development
TAJIKISTAN - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President             Mr. Johannes Linn
Director              .    Mr. Yukon Huang
Division Chief/Manager     Mr. Robert Liebenthal
Staff Member     _          Mr. Michael Mills



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  .............. ............... i
PART I. INTRODUCTION.                                                                   1
PART II.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES ............................... I ...... 6
PART III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION.                                                          9
PART IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .........12
PART V.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT  ... 27
PART VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS .37
PART VII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......39
ANNEXES
A.    Basic Social and Economic Data on Tajikistan
B.    Shelter and House Rehabilitation Program (Save The Children-US)
C.    Micro-Credit Program (Save The Children-US)
D.    Program of Support to Female-Headed Households (Save The Children-UK)
E.    Agricultural Reform Program (Aga Khan Foundation)
F.    Summary of Social Assessment
G.    Social Protection Measures Supported through the Agricultural Reform and Social Protection
Project
H.    Draft Government Resolution Establishing the TASIF
I.    Outline of Operational Manual for the TASIF
J.    Institutional Organization of the TASIF and TORs
K.    Review of Non-Government Organizations in Tajikistan
L.    Key Indicators for Monitoring and Integrated Evaluation
M.    Detailed Project Cost Estimates
N.    Procurement Plan and Schedule
0.    Project Implementation Plan
P.    Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Q.    Supervision Plan
R.    Selected Documents Available in Project Files



MAP           IBRD No. 28399R
TABLES
Table 5.1 - Summary of Project Costs by Component
Table 5.2 - Financing Plan
Table 5.3 - Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Table 5.4- Estimated Disbursement of Credit
Table 5.5- Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule
Table 6.1- Project Beneficiaries
FIGURES
Figure 4.1 - Organizational Structure of the Tajikistan Social Investment Fund
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Tajikistan in November/December, 1996. The
mission comprised Michael Mills (Task Manager), Alexey Proskuryakov (Operations Analyst), Evelyn Villatoro
(Procurement Specialist), Maniza Naqvi (Social Policy Specialist), and Pamela Hunte (Anthropologist).
The peer reviewers for the project are Alexandre Marc and Margaret Grosh.
The Division Chief is Robert Liebenthal, the Director is Yukon Huang, and the Vice President is Johannes Linn.



REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Government of Tajikistan
Implementing Agency:       Tajikistan Social Investment Fund
Beneficiaries:             Unemployed and low-income groups, including female-headed
households, mainly in rural areas; non-government and community
organizations.
Poverty:                   Program of Targeted Intervention
Amount:                    SDR 8.7 million (US$12 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Payable in 40 years with 10 years grace at standard IDA terms.
Financing Plan:            See Section V
Economic Analysis:         Microprojects financed by the TASIF will be selected according to
criteria described in the operational manual, integrating economic
analysis.
Map:                       IBRD 25721
Project ID Number:         TJ-PE 44202
Project Objective:         The development objective of the Project is to increase on a sustainable
basis the incomes of the poor and improve their access to essential
economic and social services. The Project objectives are to: (a) improve
incomes of about 250,000 poor people by 1999; and (b) develop local
capacity to implement participatory approaches to poverty alleviation.
Project Description:       The Project has two linked components:
(i)    The scaling-up of selected existing poverty alleviation programs
carried out by international non-government organizations. This
component has five sub-components: (a) the shelter and house
rehabilitation program (Save The Children-US); (b) the micro-
credit program (Save The Children-US); (c) the program of
support to female-headed households (Save The Children-UK);
(d) the agricultural reform program (Aga Khan Foundation); and
(e) future sponsored activities to be supported after the first year
of the Project.
(ii)    Development of the Tajikistan Social Investment Fund. This
component  has  two  sub-components:  (a)  institutional



- 11 -
development of the Tajikistan Social Investment Fund as a
demand-driven funding mechanism to finance community-based
initiatives for small investments; and (b) financing of about 70
microprojects that support the rehabilitation or restoration of
small-scale social and economic infrastructure and services in
poor communities.
Project Benefits:           There are three types of benefits expected to be derived from the Project.
First, about five percent of the population will benefit directly either
from the scaled-up programs run by the selected non-government
organizations, or from the microprojects funded through the Tajikistan
Social Investment Fund. The benefits will vary across targeted groups,
including improved quality, availability or regularity of services,
increased family incomes through labor wages, reconstructed shelter,
improved supplies of agricultural inputs and services, and access to
financial services.
Second, the Project will strengthen in-country capacity to target, appraise
and monitor efforts to alleviate and reduce poverty. The strengthened
capacity will be manifested in the Tajikistan Social Investment Fund
which by Project end will be a demand-driven and cost-effective
mechanism to channel small amounts of money and provide technical
support to communities to plan and undertake small investments. This
mechanism will be used by the Government to attract increased external
funding for poverty alleviation, and infrastructure restoration and
development. Local governments, non-government organizations and
community-based organizations will gain valuable experience in planning
and undertaking small investments and poverty alleviation activities,
conducting competitive procurement, involving community members, and
reporting.
Third, lessons emerging from the Project will feed into the
Government's larger program of poverty alleviation in the future, and
will assist the Government in trying to mobilize increased external
funding.
Project Risks:              There are three main risks associated with the Project. First, the security
situation in much of the country is fragile, and there is still some fighting
in the East. To reduce this risk, the first component of the Project has
been designed to support the extension of poverty alleviation activities in
areas where programs are already successfully underway. Expansion or
replication of these or other programs and the microprojects financed by
the Tajikistan Social Investment Fund will be undertaken only where the
situation is sufficiently stable.
Second, political factors could compromise the autonomy, credibility and
effectiveness of the programs supported by the international non-
government organizations and the Tajikistan Social Investment Fund. The
risk to the former will be minirirzed through regular and close



- iii -
cooperation between the non-government organizations and the Taj ikistan
Social Investment Fund staff. This cooperation will be facilitated by
technical assistance support. This risk will also be reduced by detailing
the specific roles and responsibilities of the Government and the
international NGOs in the service contracts, and by close monitoring of
the fulfillment of obligations through project management and regular
Bank supervision. To reduce the risk of interference in its daily
operations, the Tajikistan Social Investment Fund is being established as
a semi-autonomous body, with a Board of non-governmental and
governmental members and chaired by the Prime Minister. This
arrangement should create a high profile and broad ownership, and thus
help protect the integrity of the institution. There will also be
comprehensive institutional checks and balances, and efficient operating
procedures detailed in the operational manual, which will be checked
closely during project supervision.
Third, there are risks associated with the limited managerial, technical
and institutional capacity of local organizations responsible for proposing
and implementing microprojects, and for financing the operation and
maintenance of the microprojects after completion. To reduce these risks,
the appraisal procedures for the microprojects will include careful
analysis of institutional capacity, and technical assistance will be
provided to fill institutional, technical and management gaps.
Furthermore, increased community participation in the identification and
implementation of the microprojects will increase the likelihood that
microprojects respond to an urgent community need, thus increasing the
likelihood for sustaining investments.






REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION AND COUNTRY SETTING
A. Country Setting and Recent Developments
1.1    Tajikistan is a small country of 5.8 million people, with about seventy percent of the population
living in the rural areas. The economy is predominantly agricultural, even though only seven percent of
the land area is classified as suitable for agriculture. The agricultural sector, which under the Soviet
system was dominanted by cotton production, now accounts for 25 percent of Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) and 50 percent of employment. The industrial sector, which is dominated by aluminum
production, accounts for 35 percent of GDP and 12 percent of employment.
1.2    At independence in 1991, Tajikistan was the poorest republic of the Former Soviet Union (FSU)
and remains so today: its estimated per capita income in 1995 was $370. Poverty inherited from the FSU
was due largely to geographical factors. Prior to independence, most of the poor were located in the
remote eastern areas of the country, although there were pockets of severe poverty in other parts of the
country. Since independence, the nature and extent of poverty has changed--becoming more widespread
and intense--in large measure because of three major shocks, which also account for the decline in GDP.
First, the break-up of the FSU precipitated the collapse of inter-republic trade arrangements and brought
an end to the generous budget transfers that had long enabled Tajikistan to consume far more than it
produced. Second, the political and ethnic turmoil and conflict of the early 1990s resulted in the loss of
about 50,000 lives and disrupted economic activity. While turmoil continues in some parts of the country
especially in the South and East, recent progress in peace talks between government and the major
opposition groups indicate that the conflict may be near an end. Third, a series of natural disasters,
including floods in 1992, 1993 and 1996, damaged infrastructure and productive assets.
1.3    As a result of these factors production fell by about 60 percent between 1991 and 1995, affecting
agriculture and industry. Most industrial firms are currently operating below one-third of their capacity,
while agricultural production is only about 30 percent of its 1991 level. The real value of monthly wages
in 1995, when actually paid, was only about 5 percent of the 1990 level. Nearly one million workers
are either openly unemployed or under/partially unemployed.
1.4    The Government's reform program began in late 1995 and has been supported by an IMF
stand-by arrangement (May 1996), and IDA Credit in the form of a policy-based Agricultural Recovery
and Social Protection (ARSP) operation in an amount of SDR34.8 million, and the Institution Building
Technical Assistance (IBTA) Project for SDR3.4 million. Implementation of these programs was
satisfactory until late 1996 when renewed violence caused the Government to increase significantly its
defense expenditures. These were financed by a combination of budget arrears (including significant
amounts owed to the social safety net) and monetary expansion. The Fund's SBA expired at the end of
1996 and negotiations on a second SBA have not begun because of the Government's lack of response
to the Fund's advice regarding stabilization of monetary and fiscal indicators. Although the prior actions
for the ARSP Credit were front loaded, there has been some backsliding in recent months. Specifically,
although the Government agreed to liberalize cotton marketing by eliminating the state order system and
marketing monopoly, it has reneged on this understanding by imposing some export controls on cotton.



-2 -
1.5    On the political front, efforts are being made by the Government and the opposition to resolve
outstanding differences and bring the peace process to a satisfactory closure. Two weeks of difficult
talks between the Government and the United Tajik Opposition ended in Tehran in January 1997 with
the signing of a joint statement on procedural issues necessary to launch the transitional process towards
national reconciliation. In February 1997 meeting in Meshad, the Tajik Government agreed to a
power-sharing accord with the opposition group giving 13 seats of a new 26-member National
Commission for Reconciliation to each side. The two sides agreed that the Commission should be in
place and working by July 1997. Further agreements were also reached on a mutual amnesty law and
a central election commission and incorporation of opposition members in the Government. In March
1997, the two sides agreed on the reintegration of opposition troops into the regular Tajik armed forces.
The move towards peace has created hopes but also fears, as armed groups, who were left out of the
peace process, intensified the violence in the country. The taking of UN hostages in December 1996 and,
again, February 1997 is a clear manifestation of a fragile security situation in Tajikistan.
B. Living Conditions and the Social Situation
1.6    Living conditions vary around the country". Most industries are located in the northern oblast
of Khojand, which is widely believed to be better-off. Kulyab in the South has historically been quite
poor. The adjacent area of Kurgan-Tube has suffered some of the worst fighting in the conflict. The
eastern areas are remote and sparsely populated.
1.7    The fall in Government revenues and expenditures has led to a collapse of the inherited social
safety net. The combined share of GDP allocated to education and health was about 17 percent in 1992
but only 7 percent of a much smaller GDP in 1995. There has been a similar decline in resources
available for social payments, although the Government is now exploring ways of improving targeting
to those most in need. Recently the bread compensation payment and child allowance have been
combined into a single welfare payment. In addition to improved targeting, there is need for the
country's infrastructure to be strengthened to benefit the poorest groups and for new institutional
arrangements to be put in place to alleviate poverty.
1.8    A social assessment was undertaken in May-June 1996 in order to understand better the nature
and causes of poverty, its dynamics, and the context in which effective solutions could be developed. It
concluded that there are three main characteristics rendering certain areas liable to poverty: rural location,
impact of the war and isolation. Even though formal unemployment is severe in urban areas, and the
poverty of some urban households is no less deep than that of many rural ones, poverty is somewhat less
widespread in urban areas. Poverty is most acute in war affected villages, and in areas with a high
proportion of female-headed households, poor access to land, low levels of savings to act as a buffer
against hunger, a lack of means to cultivate cash crops, eroded assets (such as cattle and personal goods),
and shelter in a poor condition or lacking altogether because of destruction related to the war. Poverty
is also due to discrimination and lack of security inhibiting economic growth. Isolated villages have been
hit particularly hard. The main priorities arising from the social assessment are the following: peace,
1/ Administratively, in addition to the capital city of Dushanbe (population about 600,000), there are four
oblasts (or regions). These are: (i) Khojand (population about 1.6 million) in the north; (ii) Khatlon,
comprising Kurgan-Tube (population about 1.1 million) and Kulyab (population about 700,000), in the south-
west;(iii) Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous Oblast (population 200,000) in the remote east of the country; and
(iv) the Regions of Republican Subordination (population about 1.2 million) in the center of the country which
are ruled directly and have no oblast level structures.



security and the rule of law; an improved ability to meet basic needs of food, shelter, shoes, health and
education; diversification of income sources; and enhanced access to productive assets to increase self-
sufficiency and to produce tradeable goods. The social assessment (which is summarized in Annex F) also
provides strong support for using a participatory approach that will ensure effective targeting at the local
level, and identifies a wide range of local opportunities for microprojects. It indicates that effective
poverty alleviation will require careful attention to be paid to local aspects of ethnicity, gender relations,
physical security and power relations.
C. National and Local Institutions
1.9    The structure of the government of the Republic of Tajikistan consists of the executive branch,
the representative branch (the Majles Oli), and the judicial branch. The heads of the executive and
representative branches are appointed by the President of the Republic. They preside over the sessions
of the Majilises, prepare and submit local economic and social development programs for approval by
the Majilises, implement and account for these programs, and regulate land reforms. Since independence,
the government ministries have been reorganized on a number of occasions, which has added to
uncertainty and instability in public management and duplication of duties.
1.10  In December 1994, the "Law on Village Governance" was adopted, the starting point of reform
for local government. It replaced the former Village Soviets with Jamiats, which are groups of street,
block and village leaders. They propose program activities, control cash expenditures, consider issues on
territorial borders, and allot land for ownership or leasing. The Chairman of the Jamiat is responsible for
order, general improvement of the living conditions of the area, and land and property allocation.
Regional, town and farm representatives are appointed from above, and often are new arrivals from a
different region and/or sector. Other formal national institutions include the Women's Councils and
Youth League, but these are also highly centralized, hierarchical and top-down. Local level institutions
are mostly traditional, male dominated, and based on family relations or locality, and often have a
religious element. The extended family network is centered on the male head of household, his household
and that of his sons. The clan, which is based both on family and locality, includes the immediate
relatives of the male head of household.
1.11   Indigenous non-government organizations (NGOs) do exist, but with very limited capacity and
coverage (see Annex K). Only one local organization, the Pamir Relief and Development Organization,
supported by the Aga Khan Foundation, has much capacity. Most international NGOs entered Tajikistan
over the last three or four years, primarily in relief work and often in association with a multilateral
agency such as UNICEF or UNHCR. However, several of these have made the transition from relief
to rehabilitation or development work.
D. Government and IDA Strategy and Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.12   The Government's reform program is designed to stabilize the economy and stimulate labor-
intensive economic growth. However, growth alone will not be sufficient to reduce poverty especially
in the near-term, given the precipitous fall of incomes combined with the collapse of inherited social
programs and the potentially high transitional social cost of the reform measures. The Government
recognizes that Tajikistan cannot afford to maintain the level of social investment and protection that it
enjoyed under the Soviet system, and is trying to achieve a balance between the need for social assistance
in the form of a safety net and the need to operate within a severely constrained budget. To do this, it
is making efforts to improve the efficiency and targeting of social programs, and to find innovative ways



-4 -
to reach and support the poor.
1.13   The Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Tajikistan was discussed by the Board
on May 16, 1996. Recognizing the risks associated with the political and economic instability in
Tajikistan, the CAS calls for a flexible approach to the Bank Group's assistance program until the end
of FY97. It aims at arresting the intensification of poverty through measures designed to foster a supply
response, based on employment intensive growth combined with direct steps to protect the most
vulnerable groups. The broad elements of the strategy are to: (a) strengthen institutional capacity to plan
and implement a medium-term program of structural reform; (b) support the Government's efforts to
stabilize the economy; and (c) moderate the impact of the economic collapse on vulnerable groups. Under
this approach the Bank will continue supporting the implementation of the IBTA and the ARSP Credits,
provided the security situation remains satisfactory. In addition to the proposed Pilot Poverty Alleviation
Project (PPAP), the Bank Group will also begin preparation of an adjustment credit, provided an IMF
program remains in place. The Bank has been coordinating closely with other donors in Tajikistan,
particularly the EBRD, EU, UNDP, UNHCR, UNICEF, Aga Khan Foundation, and USAID. Until now,
donors have mainly provided technical support and/or humanitarian assistance, while little support has
gone to development projects.
1.14   Within this overall country approach, the strategy for the proposed PPAP is based on: (a) the
urgent need to address the poverty problem directly, to revive economic activity at the local level and
to get some productive incomes into poor households; (b) the lack of services and the considerable
backlog of maintenance which needs to be carried out on the country's basic infrastructure; (c) the
existence of some implementation capacity and development program experience among the international
NGO community active in the country; (d) recognition of the weak institutional capacity of the
Government at present, and the highly constrained Government budget envelope which prevents more
than a marginal impact on the poor even with improved targeting; (e) the importance of building upon
the coping and survival strategies which are now being adopted by the people themselves; (f) the need
to create indigenous capacity for carrying out poverty-focussed development programs; and (g) the
relatively limited operational experience so far of both the Bank Group and other donors in Tajikistan.
1.15   This calls for a strategy with a dual approach: (a) support for the scaling-up and replication (over
a three-year period) of a few selected programs currently operated by international NGOs which already
have significant poverty alleviation impact; and (b) the building up of national capacity for designing,
carrying out, and evaluating community-based projects through the establishment of a social investment
fund and associated institutional development activities. In this way, it is hoped that there will be an
immediate and positive impact on the living standards of some poor people in the country. The creation
of a new mechanism and successful financing of projects will also increase the likelihood of additional
funding in the future.  With procedures developed for the identification and implementation of
microprojects, and with the staff in place, the scope and infrastructure for a larger program will exist.
A follow-up project has already been provisionally included in the Bank's lending program for Tajikistan,
and support from other donor organizations could be sought at forthcoming consultative group meetings.
Experience gained by the social investment fund in alleviating poverty through interventions in various
different sectors could also be extended through programs of assistance to individual sectors such as
agricultural development, health, education, roads and microcredit.
F. Lessons of Experience
1.16  It is important to consider the lessons of experience from three angles: (a) the experience of the
Bank so far in Tajikistan and other countries of Central Asia; (b) the experience of the Bank in working
with NGOs; and (c) the experience of the Bank in social investment fund projects in other countries.
(a)    The Bank's experience in working in Tajikistan is limited, so it is prudent to draw on



-5-
experiences in Central Asia generally. Some of the main lessons include the following:
(i) high-level support and political commitment for key policy reforms and project design
are essential; (ii) the institutional reform of inherited social safety nets takes time to
achieve and tends to be undermined by the severity of the fiscal collapse; and (iii) staff
development and training, including on Bank-related procedures, are needed for efficient
project implementation.
(b)    In working with NGOs, the Bank has learned that: (i) partners need to be chosen
carefully, using a transparent and fair selection process; (ii) Government/NG0 relations
need to be addressed and specific agreement on any new operating modalities reached;
(iii) the managerial and technical absorptive capacity of NGOs needs to be realistically
assessed; and (iv) close attention should be given to the design of suitable procurement
arrangements.
(c)    General lessons emerging from social investment funds around the world include: (i)
objectives should be clear and based on community involvement; (ii) institutional
arrangements for project implementation should be designed to avoid bureaucratic
procedures, but coordination with line ministries is also important; (iii) well-qualified,
professional staff with performance incentives are necessary; (iv) there should be an
incremental approach, building upon and scaling-up existing activities; and (v) great
attention is needed to operational maintenance.
G. Project Preparation
1.17   Project design work commenced in April 1996. Project preparation was enhanced by several
factors and events: (a) a Working Group was established by the Prime Minister (and chaired by an official
in his Office) to guide the process; (b) two study tours were undertaken by members of the Working
Group to review the experience of social investment fund projects in other transition countries; (c) a
seminar was held under the auspices of the Economic Development Institute for participants to learn more
about the worldwide experiences of social investment funds; (d) a Japanese PHRD grant was approved
to cover some of the costs of the technical assistance and training activities for project preparation; (e)
particular use was made of national consultants, especially for conducting the social assessment and
poverty ranking exercises, and for examining legal issues; (f) there were extensive discussions with key
stakeholders (including the NGOs in the country) about the objectives and strategies of the project; and
(g) efforts were made to strengthen the working relationships between the NGOs and the Government.
In addition, there was close coordination with other external agencies. This included participation by the
UNHCR on the identification mission, and a USAID-funded consultant on the pre-appraisal mission.
There was also close coordination with the UNDP, especially regarding the development of its new
rehabilitation program, and with the European Union's TACIS Program.



- 6 -
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A. Project Concept and Objectives
2.1    The development objective of the Project is to increase on a sustainable basis the incomes of the
poor, and improve their access to essential economic and social services. The Project objectives are to:
(a) have a modest though quick impact (within three years from Project start-up) on the incomes of some
of the poor; and (b) develop capacity at the national and local level to implement participatory approaches
to poverty alleviation. The rationale for the Project lies in the severity of poverty and the emergency
situation in the country. Some insight into poverty was gained through World Bank economic reports and
the recent social assessment. Further information and quantification will be obtained through a
forthcoming poverty assessment.
2.2    The strategy of the Project is to: (a) collaborate closely with selected international NGOs that are
implementing programs in Tajikistan which could be expanded with additional funding quickly (an
approach which has the commitment of the Government); (b) maintain the momentum from the relief
phase and ensure continuity from humanitarian assistance to sustainable development; (c) use the Project
as a short-to medium-term program to reverse the deterioration in infrastructure and living standards, and
to stimulate some employment; (d) capitalize on the availability of some highly motivated and well
educated nationals wanting to improve social conditions; and (e) demonstrate successful poverty
alleviation programs for further replication and build institutional capacity for poverty alleviation activities
in the long-term.  In relation to the civil strife and emergency situation in the country, the strategy is
to (a) complement the emerging peace process with investments to reduce suffering and economic
hardships; (b) target poor communities, but also maintain an appropriate ethnic and regional balance; (c)
select Project staff and other collaborators on merit, but additionally, ensure that they are as
representative as possible of the whole national scene; and (d) promote cooperation between different
organizations and social groups, including the Government, local and international NGO's, academic
institutions and researchers.
2.3     The strategy will be implemented through two components: the scaling-up of selected existing
poverty alleviation programs carried out by international NGOs, and the creation of the Tajikistan Social
Investment Fund (TASIF). The strategy of the Project is reflected in the criteria used for selecting the
NGO programs under the first component: (a) targeting of the poor; (b) the developmental (rather than
relief) nature of the programs; (c) sustainability; (d) community participation; (e) the existence of ongoing
(rather than planned) activities; (f) management capacity to scale up the programs; (g) technical soundness
of the activities; (h) cost-effectiveness; and (i) environmental impact.  Although the choice of NGO
programs for scaling up was constrained by the existence and location of the initial programs, and
although the programs maintain a bias towards those areas of the country which suffered most in the civil
war, nevertheless, a significant number of different districts will benefit - including in the most remote,
eastern part of the country. Risks remain that some of the investments made could be undermined or
destroyed by a resumption of violence, but on balance, it is believed that the investments are likely to
contribute to improvement of tensions rather than the reverse. For example, different ethnic groups will
combine together in the house rehabilitation program, and efforts will be made in each of the programs
to train officials and other interested parties in design techniques which could then be replicated
elsewhere. In the second component of the Project, there will also be careful attention given to ensure
that social cohesion is supported through the microprojects
2.4    There are also critical links between the two components. The scaled-up NGO programs will
improve the situation of some of the poor, build some local capacity, and demonstrate poverty alleviation
activities that could be replicated or expanded through the TASIF. Community based organizations



- 7 -
involved in the NGO programs will also be encouraged to put forward proposals to the TASIF. Similarly,
activities of the TASIF will involve the active participation of communities and collaboration with
"requesting agencies," many of which will be international and local NGOs. The TASIF will benefit from
lessons emanating from the NGOs' approaches to targeting poor groups, working with different types of
community organizations, and ensuring commitment to operation and maintenance. The linkages between
the two components will be formalized through TASIF's monitoring, supervising and reporting on the
NGO programs, as well as on the microprojects.
2.5   The Government has demonstrated its commitment to the proposed Project in a number of ways.
It quickly established the Working Group (composed of non-governmental and governmental officials)
which proved to be an efficient and valuable counterpart for Project preparation. The Prime Minister
agreed to be the Chairman of the TASIF "Board for Project Realization", and the Government agreed
to pass on borrowed IDA funds to the selected international NGOs on grant terms, in recognition of their
existing capacity to implement programs effectively.
B. Income Generation
2.6   The Project's first objective will be achieved mainly through the first component of the Project:
the scaling-up of selected existing poverty alleviation programs carried out by international NGOs. This
component has five sub-components:
(a)    The Shelter and House Rehabilitation Program (to be carried out by Save The Children
Federation (US): SCF-US) will assist 2,000 poor and previously displaced families in five
districts through self-help reconstruction of their homes devastated by the civil war.
(b)    The Micro-Credit (Group Guarantee Loans and Savings) Program (to be carried out by
Save The Children Federation (US) SCF-US) will provide access to credit and mobilize
savings for 3,750 poor women in the Bokhtar, Vakhsh, Vose, Kurgan-Tube and
Kolkhozabad districts of Khatlon Oblast.
(c)    The Program of Support to Female-Headed Households (to be carried out by Save The
Children Fund (UK): SCF-UK) will support a total of 3,700 female-headed households
and their communities: 2,100 of them in Vakhsh, and 1,600 in four other districts. It will
also strengthen their capacity to maintain and prevent the collapse of locally available
social services.
(d)    The Agricultural Reform Program (to be carried out by the Aga Khan Foundation: AKF)
will expand the area under food crop production in the Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous
Oblast (GBAO); increase food crop production and productivity in GBAO; establish and
support private farm management; and develop human and institutional capacity in the
agricultural sector in the oblast.
(e)    The future sponsored activities will be directed at further NGO and other programs that
meet the set criteria and will be implemented during the second year of the project.
2.7   The 70 microprojects to be funded under the second component of the Project, through the
TASIF, will also contribute to poverty alleviation, as they will be selected largely on factors relating to
their expected positive impact on vulnerable and poor groups. Their immediate impact will be modest due
to the relatively small number of microprojects to be implemented and the limited capacity initially of the
TASIF to target. However, by Project completion, the TASIF will be capable of channeling new funds



-8 -
to many more poor communities.
2.8    For the first objective of the Project, there will be two sets of indicators to monitor progress and
evaluate outcomes. First, there will be a common set of five indicators which will be used across all of
the sponsored international NGO programs and also the microprojects. In view of the difficulties of
measuring income levels of the poor directly, three of these indicators will relate to proxy measures (food
security and nutrition levels; clothing and shoes; and availability of shelter and fuel). The other two
comnu-on indicators will relate to the cost-effectiveness of the programs and the extent of community
participation. Then, in addition, each of the individual NGO programs and also the microprojects will
have three further indicators relating to the specific programs. More details of these and the evaluation
procedures are given in Annex L.
C. Development of Local Capacity for Poverty Alleviation
2.9    The Project will strengthen in-country capacity to target, appraise, implement and monitor poverty
alleviation programs. This will be done in two ways. First, the Project will establish the TASIF as a
semi-autonomous, transparent, accountable and efficiently-run organization, able to fund an increasing
number of microprojects. The TASIF will also provide technical support to national and local
governments, community-based organizations and local contractors and entrepreneurs to conduct and
participate in competitive procurement. Second, the Project will encourage collaboration and capacity
building between international NGOs (especially those involved in the first component) and local
governments and communities to initiate and supervise poverty alleviation activities. For example, the
AKF will collaborate with the Pamir Relief and Development Program (PRDP), a national NGO, carrying
out the agricultural reform program. SCF-US will also seek to transfer the micro-credit program to a
formal, independent, local NGO or financial services institution, capable of carrying on or expanding
credit activities after the Project ends.
2.10   The proposed Project is a pilot, even though the first component finances the scaling-up of
already existing programs. It will demonstrate successful programs that can be further expanded and
replicated in other parts of the country through the TASIF or via other means. The Project will enable
experimentation to take place in terms of approaches to targeting, working with different types of
community organizations, in a variety of settings, and mobilizing community contributions for
investments and preventive maintenance. This experimentation will demonstrate the benefits and
limitations of various approaches, which will be adapted by the TASIF, government bodies, NGOs and
other actors.
2.11   The indicators to be used to measure and evaluate the success in building capacity will comprise:
(i) the development of national and local capacity to implement participatory poverty alleviation programs;
(ii) specifically, the number of TASIF staff trained in project identification, proposal preparation and
community participation; and also (iii) the number of national and local goverrnent officials trained in
these skills. Further details are given in Annex L.



- 9 -
III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.1    The Project has two components: (a) scaling-up of on-going NGO poverty alleviation programs;
and (b) the development of the Tajikistan Social Investment Fund.
A. Scaling up of Poverty Alleviation Programs (US$ 7.5 million)
3.2    This component has five sub-components: (a) the shelter and house rehabilitation program (SCF-
US); (b) the micro-credit program (SCF-US)); (c) the program of support to female-headed households
(SC-UK); (d) the agricultural reform program (AKF); and (e) future sponsored activities to be supported
after the first year.
3.3    Shelter and House Rehabilitation Program (US$3.2 million).  This program will assist 2,000
returned families in the self-help reconstruction of their homes in five districts most devastated by the
recent civil war in Bokhtar, Vakhsh, Kolkhozabad, Kabodien and Shaartuz districts in the Khatlon Oblast.
The social assessment in this area identified the provision of shelter as a critical priority need for poverty
alleviation, economic recovery and the health and productivity of the population, and recommended that
the existing program ought to be scaled up to increase its impact. The Project will support essential
structural repairs (walls and roofs) through provision of essential roofing materials (timber, nails, tiles),
and through the distribution of food for work to local work brigades, including home owners. Local
project organizers will target the neediest families with local participation, and local communities will
assist in the construction, monitoring and distribution of food and materials. Documentation, training
and extension will enable replication in other parts of the country.
3.4    Micro-Credit (Group Guarantee Loans and Savings) Program (US$1.0 million). This program
involves the expansion of the existing pilot micro-credit program in Kurgan-Tube town, Bokhtar, Vakhsh
and Kolkhozabad districts of Kurgan Tube. The social assessment identified this region in terms of
opportunities and resources through access to markets, widely available irrigation and remittances, all
ideal conditions for micro finance development. Most of the 528 current women clients are urban or
semi urban and borrow for trading activities. The Project, in addition to supporting expansion of its
activities in the existing locations, will extend the program to the Vose District. Savings will be
introduced as an important component of this expanded program. The program will provide access to
credit and mobilize savings for 3,750 poor women. The management of the existing groups will be
restructured into an independent local NGO or financial services institution that could operate a micro
finance program independently to sustain poor women's access to credit. Tajik staff of the program will
be trained in the theory and practice of group guaranteed loans and savings programs. The Project will
support the expansion of the GGLS program through strengthening of GGLS at the institutional, financial
and client levels. At the financial level, the project will support a loan fund of US$ 300,000; the
training of staff in financial management; and a management information system (MIS). At the
institutional level, the project will support the formation and training of 250 groups of women clients (18-
20 women in each group) for borrowing and savings; recruitment of additional staff and their training
in financial management, group formation and institution building; collection of baseline data on clients;
and the setting up of an MIS system for efficient financial record keeping and monitoring and evaluation.
3.5    The Program of Su=port to Female-Headed Households (US$ 1.0 million).  This program
involves the provision of agricultural assets and strengthening of capacity of social services to provide
female-headed households (FHHs) with access to and ownership of agricultural assets such as livestock,
seed and tools as well as technical advice. SCF-UK's experience is that this approach can work provided
there is adequate consultation with beneficiaries about the scale of assistance and the nature of assets to
be provided. The program also includes informing clients of their legal rights, existing social services



- 10 -
and assistance programs. Baseline data collected by SCF-UK for analysis of the cost effectiveness and
benefits of the project activities will enable not only the measurement of the overall economic benefits
provided but an analysis of household income overtime. The Project will provide inputs to 2,100 FHHs
in Vakhsh District, such as livestock, seed, tools, technical advice; start-up grants to day care centers and
schools; and the recruitment and training of additional field staff for group formation. It also includes
local capacity building activities and the replication of the SCF-UK model to 16 additional communities
of 1,600 households in Aini, Panjkent, Dushanbe and Shaartuz. Altogether, 3,700 FHHs will be reached.
3.6    Agricultural Reform Program (US$0.6 million): This program will be implemented by the Pamir
Relief and Development Program in conjunction with AKF in GBAO, the mountainous region of eastern
Tajikistan. Since its inception in 1993, the program's long-term goal has been the establishment of self-
sufficiency in staple food crops (wheat, potatoes, etc.) by the local populace. The Project will continue
to expand the area under food crop production, increase food crop production and productivity, establish
and support private farm management, and develop human and institutional capacity in agriculture. It is
planned that some 1,600 farmers will participate in the construction of irrigation channels and the
development of new land in six of GBAO's seven districts. The construction of 32 irrigation schemes
(108 kilometers of channels) will enable an increase in the amount of privately managed land by some
3,900 hectares. The specific PRDP-related agricultural reform processes in the area of farm restructuring
which are occurring in GBAO are consistent with the Government's land reform and farm restructuring
program that is currently being implemented on a pilot basis in other parts of the country and is supported
by the ARSP. Under the program, farmers obtain plots of land for private management from kolkhoz
(collective) farms or gain permission to bring new land under cultivation through negotiations with the
local government in GBAO. This is accomplished either individually or in groups, with PRDP assistance
if necessary. Formal written contracts, which define and guarantee land access rights, must be obtained
from the Government before the farmers may participate in PRDP activities. These contracts stipulate
that the land access rights are long-term and can be inherited. They cannot be traded, although this may
be the case at a later stage.
3.7    Future sponsored activities ($1.6 million).   Additional funding will be allocated to these
programs if they continue to be successful or to other programs that meet the same criteria (para 2.3) at
the end of the first year of the project. Some of this additional funding could also be allocated to
microprojects under the TASIF, if appropriate.
B. Tajikistan Social Investment Fund (4.2 million)
3.8    This component has two sub-components (a) the development of the TASIF; and (b)
microprojects.
3.9    Development of the Taiikistan Social Investment Fund (US$ 1.5 million). The sub-component will
support the development of the TASIF through provision of equipment, vehicles, salaries, operating costs,
training, technical assistance, and financing for monitoring and evaluation. An international consultant
will provide technical support to the TASIF. International and local consultants will also provide support
through short missions to assist the TASIF in setting up an accounting system and an MIS, and to further
develop its targeting strategy and methodology. A beneficiary assessment will be undertaken during the
second year of the project to ascertain the impact of the microprojects on benefiting communities and
community organizations. Training will be provided to the TASIF staff on a range of topics such as
participatory community development, contracting and bidding procedures, project supervision and
evaluation, English, and computer training. A limited number of study tours will also be organized to
complement the training modules. The Project will also enable TASIF to make available some technical
assistance and training to local governments, small contractors, NGO staff and other active community
members to help them plan, manage, and implement microprojects and to participate in competitive
bidding. Whenever possible, delivery of technical support will be contracted to qualified local firms or



- 11 -
individuals.
3.10   Microprojects (US$2.5 million). During the first year of the project, 10-15 pilot microprojects
will be implemented in order to train staff and test and modify the targeting, promotion, appraisal,
approval, supervision, monitoring and evaluation procedures that will be elaborated in the operational
manual. Examples of possible microprojects are: (a) social infrastructure, such as waste water canal
cleaning, irrigation repair, pump replacement, small water and sanitation stations, public baths and
latrines, and reconstruction of kindergartens, schools and health points (especially in war-affected or
remote villages); (b) environmental projects, such as reforestation, terracing, flood and mud-slide
prevention; and (c) entrepreneurial activities, such as small loans to micro-enterprises, and processing
of fruits and vegetables. During the next two years of the project, an additional-50-60 microprojects will
be implemented. The maximum size of a microproject will be US$150,000, though few will exceed
US$50,000. The average microproject size is estimated at US$30,000 in the first year and US$35,000
over the life of the project.



- 12 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Overall Management of the Project
4.1    The TASIF will be the executing agency for the Project. The TASIF has been established by
Presidential Resolution with financial and administrative autonomy, and with its own charter that will
stipulates its structure and authority. It is able to enter into contracts, recruit staff from outside the civil
service and establish its own operating procedures, including those for procurement and disbursement.
Autonomy is necessary so that the TASIF can work with NGOs, local governments, private contractors
and community organizations in an efficient and effective manner.
4.2    The TASIF structure (Figure 4.1) comprises the Board for Project Realization (the "TASIF
Board') and the TASIF Executive Committee. The TASIF Board is chaired by the Prime Minister and
comprises eight representatives, four from government ministries and four from non-governmental
sectors. The TASIF Board approves the operational manual, and quarterly and annual reports; designates
external auditors; considers microproject proposals over US$50,000; and provides guidance to the
Executive Committee on the execution of the PPAP.
4.3    The Executive Committee is headed by the TASIF Executive Director, who was recruited
competitively. The Executive Director is responsible for the coordination of all TASIF activities. He
prepares the TASIF's work programs, authorizes all disbursements together with the Finance and
Administration Manager, prepares reports on the progress of the TASIF and the programs carried out by
the selected international NGOs under the first component of the project, and identifes training needs of
TASIF staff.
4.4    The Executive Committee comprises the Finance and Administration Department, Microprojects
Department covering two areas (divided into Northern and Southern areas), the Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation Department, and six advisory and support units (legal, institutional support, procurement,
management information system, environment, and promotion). The Finance and Administration
Department oversees all financial and accounting matters, prepare financial and administrative reports on
the use of Project funds; prepares disbursement applications to IDA; and makes requests for
replenishment of the special account. The Microprojects Department consists of two area managers and
field engineers to oversee the preparation, appraisal and supervision of microprojects. The Management
Information System Unit will develop and maintain the MIS. The Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Department monitors the progress of the NGO programs supported under the first component and also
the microprojects; develops and monitors a targeting strategy, and coordinates reporting and evaluation
activities. The Institutional Support Unit coordinates the delivery of training and technical assistance to
contractors and communities involved with TASIF-financed microprojects, as well as to TASIF staff. The
Legal Unit is responsible for legal matters. A procurement specialist will be hired to monitor compliance
on procurement with the operational manual. A promotion specialist will organize promotional activities
for microprojects. An environmental consultant will be hired during the second year of the project to
advise on and monitor environmental aspects of microprojects. The TASIF will be staffed by about 30
professionals. The TASIF will subcontract supervision tasks and professional services to consultants and
NGOs whenever appropriate.



W --~~~~~~~~~~i
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~
>                                      0
ET~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
1~~~~~~ I I I-C



- 14 -
B. Implementation of Poverty Alleviation Programs of NGOs
Institutional Assessment of Selected Non-Government Organizations
4.5    The scaled-up poverty alleviation programs will be carried out by three major international
NGO's (SCF-US, SCF-UK and AKF) and possibly also by other NGOs to be identified at the end of the
first year of the project. The TASIF will enter into a service contract for the implementation of each
program. These selected NGOs have worldwide experience in carrying out such programs, and they each
have considerable experience specifically of working in Tajikistan.
4.6    The SCF-US is a well-established not-for-profit relief and development organization working in
over forty countries in Asia, Central Asia, Africa, South America and Eastern Europe. Its headquarters
are in Westport, Connecticut, USA. It has worked in Tajikistan since May 1994, almost exclusively in
the south-western part of the country with internally displaced persons and returned refugees, and with
support from a range of sources including USDA, USAID, Soros Foundation, UNHCR, UNDP, UNICEF
and the Government of the Netherlands, as well as from its own wide network of individual and
institutional donors. Its Tajikistan program, operated under a formal agreement with the Government of
Tajikistan, is staffed by about 160 mainly local staff, although its senior officers are expatriates. Its
current country budget is about $3.5 million. It has effective management, procurement, monitoring and
accounting procedures, and is subject to external audit. From an initial emphasis on relief, it has focussed
increasingly on creating the preconditions for local economic development in Tajikistan. It has also
undertaken several surveys on a variety of issues such as the informal economy.
4.7    The SCF-UK is an international charitable organization with headquarters in London, UK, and
field offices in countries in Asia, Africa and Eastern Europe. It began work in Tajikistan in October
1994 to assist with relief supplies in the southwestern part of the country (Bokhtar district, Khatlon
Oblast), an area severely damaged by civil war. Following a participatory needs assessment, it decided
to assist vulnerable children through the provision of productive assets to female-headed households
(seeds, sewing machines, livestock), and assisted about 1,000 households in this way. SCF-UK's
strategy has been to establish a cost-effective, sustainable program with a high level of group support,
community participation and empowerment, before seeking to expand its geographical coverage. A recent
evaluation indicates that the point has now been reached. The UK home office supervises and provides
logistical and administrative support to its field offices, including international recruitment of all field staff
management positions and consultants, supervision and designing of all financial management and
procurement procedures, and designing of training modules and the MIS. The field offices manage and
implement all SCF-UK in-country programs in sectors such as health, education, infrastructure
rehabilitation, microenterprise development and agriculture. The program in Tajikistan is managed by
the Program Director in the office in Dushanbe who reports to the Regional Director for Central Asia
in Tashkent.
4.8    The AKF is an international philanthropic institution headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, with
field offices in the USA, Europe, Asia, and Africa. It supports innovative and sustainable solutions to
problems in health, education, and the general quality of life in poor rural populations in developing
countries. In Tajikistan, where AKF has been active since 1992, the organization has its general field
office in Dushanbe. It initially undertook relief work/ration distribution in the relatively isolated GBAO
following the collapse of the Soviet Union. By charter, however, AKF is a development institution and
not a relief organization. Thus AKF subsequently established a local NGO, the PRDP in GBAO with its
headquarters in the capital, Khorog, sub-offices in all of GBAO's seven districts, and additional offices
in Osh (Kyrgyz Republic) and Moscow. Since late 1993 PRDP has been active in agricultural reform
along with continuing its humanitarian assistance to GBAO. AKF is responsible for raising funds and
reporting to donors, which presently include Germany, the European Community, Japan, Canada, USA,



- 15 -
and others. It appoints PRDP's General Manager, recruits expatriate staff and consultants for evaluations,
negotiates budgets with PRDP and presents them to donors, provides funds to the PRDP, and
controls/audits its accounts. As AKF's principal partner, PRDP operates under specific instructions from
AKF on matters such as procurement, monitoring, and liaison with the authorities in GBAO. Recently
a new AKF Program Director has been assigned to Khorog which will further support PRDP's
management. Under the supervision of the AKF, PRDP itself is responsible for the implementation of
the Agricultural Reform Program, recruitment of local personnel, negotiations with the local government,
and report preparation.
Project Management, Responsibilities and Operational Plans
4.9    The Shelter and House Rehabilitation Program will be implemented by SCF-US which will be
responsible for informing the population and securing their participation through village meetings (see
Annex B). SCF-US will also be responsible, in close consultation with the community and local leaders,
for selecting and verifying beneficiaries and ensuring targeting, including a representative proportion of
women beneficiaries. Village work brigades will be formed to undertake construction based on a work
plan prepared showing project support to be provided and local participation (e.g. for organizing
transportation of materials, and construction work). Materials and food will be procured and utilized with
monitoring by local representatives and SCF-US. Village brigades (usually 15-20 persons) will be formed
from the community members. Each brigade will elect a leader, and a detailed contract will be
formalized between SC/US and the brigades (including terms and conditions, details of each house owner
and work to be done, and names of the brigade members). Usually the brigade leader will enter into
a contract with the village executive committee for the provision of transport. Food will be released
and distributed according to specified procedures against work done. Local carpenters will be trained
in roof construction. Entrepreneurs will be assisted to establish micro-enterprises. Three demonstration
houses have been tiled in order to show the technology and determine training needs. Local project
organizers, in small teams of one man and one woman, will target the neediest beneficiaries directly,
identifying them through existing lists of homeless families, supplemented by community-based
participatory social mapping, and consultation with other NGOs working in the area and key community
resource people. The organizers will assess the extent of reconstruction work to be done, assist in the
formation of work groups and the preparation of a work plan, and assist in the distribution of materials
and verify work completed. It will take between three weeks to one month to construct a house, and
brigades will work on several houses at a time. There will be a survey to verify that the construction had
been satisfactorily completed, and this will be the basis for approval of distribution of commodities.
SCF-US will report quarterly to TASIF on achievements against targets in relation to beneficiary
selection, work group formation, construction work plans, and post survey, as well as on the progress
of the tiles and training component. Site visits and training will be arranged for a small number of
selected community representatives and government officials from other parts of the country where there
is an identified housing need (rural Panjkent, Aini, Mascho), with a view to building capacity in other
local organizations for similar programs. This will enable the methodology to be adopted and adapted
to the needs of other areas where SCF/US does not work, and where similar housing needs of the very
poor exist for reasons other than destruction in civil war.
4.10   The Micro-Credit (Group Guarantee Loans and Savings) Program will also be implemented by
SCF-US (see Annex C). Staff based in the Field Office in Kurgan-Tube and in Vose will be directly
responsible for the day to day management of the program including group formations (they will form
250 women's groups and provide loans to 3,750 women micro-entrepreneurs over a 2-year period),
savings mobilization and loan disbursements and collection. The Field Office in Dushanbe will provide
overall supervision and management support and will be involved in monitoring, evaluating and reporting
in accordance with the indicators chosen. GGLS staff in SCF-US field offices in Kurgan-Tube and in
Vose, through the group promoters, will be respoisible for group formation, training of groups,
collection of baseline data on clients, assisting clients in filling out loan application forms and passbooks,



- 16 -
disbursement of loans, collection of repayments and savings. GGLS offices in the field will be responsible
for supervising loan disbursement and repayment, and for maintaining financial records which will be
reported to and supervised by the office in Dushanbe. The GGLS staff or group promoters supervised
and managed by the project manager and project supervisors will be responsible for identifying potential
clients in groups, the training of groups in a basic understanding of borrowing and repayments, loan
disbursal and repayments. The GGLS group promoters work in pairs and handle an average of 12 groups
each in the first year of the project and 15 in the second year. Each group will have an average of 15
members. Group promoters will therefore handle an average of 220 clients each.
4.11   The Program of Support to Female-Headed Households will be implemented by SCF-UK (see
Annex D). Overall management of the project will be the responsibility of the program manager in
Dushanbe. Day to day operations will be managed by a project manager based in Khatlon with support
from the program administrator for procurement and logistics, as well as financial monitoring. The
training coordinator will also be involved. SCF-UK will arrange site visits and training for a small
number selected community representatives and government officials from other parts of the country, with
a view to building capacity in other local organizations for similar programs. This will enable the
methodology to be adopted and adapted to the needs of other areas where SCF-UK does not work.
4.12   The Agricultural Reform Program will be implemented by PRDP in conjunction with AKF (see
Annex E). The local PRDP Deputy General Manager in Khorog, the capital of GBAO, will supervise
the implementation of the program with technical input from the Irrigation Engineer and the Agricultural
Supervisor and general guidance from AKF's Program Director. Villagers interested in PRDP assistance
in channel construction and new land development will first form a group and appoint a leader (sardar).
They will then negotiate with the Government for permission to utilize new land once channel
construction is completed. PRDP will next sign a formal agreement with the farmers' group stating that
it will help with channel construction and land development (i.e. technical assistance and materials;
provision of seed, fertilizer, and fuel on credit; etc.). Villagers will agree to provide manual labor for
the program's activities, with Food-For-Work inputs funded by GTZ.
4.13   The details of the implementation arrangements for each of the above programs have been
included in the contracts to be signed between the three international NGOs and the TASIF. The contracts
also specify the performance indicators, together with financial reporting mechanisms, that will trigger
subsequent release of funds after the first mobilization payment. The TASIF and the three international
non-governmental organizations have reached agreement on the draft service contracts for the four
sponsored programs. These draft agreements have received the no objection of IDA.
4.14   In addition to the pre-identified international NGO programs, funds will be made available for
other sponsored programs to be identified during the Project. The implementation program for these
activities will be as follows: the criteria for the selection of the programs will be similar to those already
used for the selection of international NGO programs and will be publicized by the TASIF; applications
will be received and then reviewed by a selection committee, after which recommendations will be made
to IDA by the TASIF and the Government. After approval, these programs will be carried out during
the second year of the project. By December 31, 1997, the TASIF will have submitted to IDA, a
proposal for the use of the future sponsored program funds.



- 17 -
C. Tajikistan Social Investment Fund
Implementation of the Institutional Development of the TASIF
4.15   Technical assistance was provided during Project preparation to the TASIF to start to develop its
institutional capabilities and ensure that it has the capacity to fulfill its functions at Project launch. Based
on this foundation, the Project will finance equipment, vehicles, salaries, staff training, technical
assistance, studies and operating costs of the TASIF during the Project period. Staff development will
mainly be on the ground, learning-by-doing through practical application of an operational manual. A
draft of the operational manual has been prepared by TASIF including sample bidding documents for the
microprojects. Structured training in World Bank procurement and disbursement procedures, computers,
and English will be provided. Technical assistance will focus on supporting the TASIF to develop an
accounting and management information system, financial control and reporting, and community
participation. Training will be conducted on the job, through local resources and foreign technical
assistance, by exchange visits to similar projects (building on the study tours already conducted to
Armenia and Albania), and by other means as necessary. The Institutional Support Unit of the TASIF
will coordinate the training activities.
4.16   Technical assistance in the form of an international technical advisor, focusing on construction
and preparation of standards and norms, will be provided, building upon the support already in place
through PHRD grant funding. An international management advisor will focus on all aspects of
management in the TASIF, including setting work plans, time and task management, team building,
communication, and development of personnel review procedures. Short-term international and local
technical assistance will also be provided to develop and test the accounting system and MIS and targeting
strategy. During the second year of the project, the TASIF will contract out a beneficiary impact study
to examine the impact of the microprojects on benefiting communities. Technical support will also be
provided to meet the managerial and technical needs of contractors, implementing organizations and
communities to participate in competitive procurement. The TASIF will enter into a contract with one
or more qualified institutions or individuals to provide training and technical assistance.
Microprojects
4.17   The major participants involved with microprojects will be (i) the community or group that is
supposed to benefit directly from the microproject in terms of increased job opportunities and income and
improved access to services; (ii) the requesting agency, that is, the community group, NGO or local
government that presents a microproject proposal to TASIF for financing; and (iii) the implementing
agency (may be the same as the requesting agency) which will sign the framework agreement with the
TASIF and take responsibility for implementing the microproject and fulfilling tasks as stipulated in the
agreement. The implementing agency may be an NGO or other community group. Other major
participants will include staff of the Microprojects Department who will be ultimately responsible for
appraisal, supervision and quality control of microprojects; the independent supervisor who will sign a
separate agreement with the implementing agency to provide daily supervision functions; and the small
private contractors hired by implementing agencies or directly by the TASIF to undertake works. The
TASIF will conduct financing activities in accordance with a microproject cycle common to all social
funds. This cycle will be elaborated in the operational manual and refined as the TASIF accrues
experience and the NGO programs and microprojects are implemented. The stages of the microproject
cycle to be detailed in the operational manual will include the following steps.
4.18   Targeting. The TASIF will have limited funds and aims to assist the poor, and thus, not everyone
will be helped. To increase the likelihood that benefits reach the poor, one of the priorities during the
first six months of the Project will be to develop a means for improving the identification of vulnerable



- 18 -
groups from among the larger population and for channeling funds selectively to them. The TASIF
strategy for targeting will be based upon the experience gained by (i) the NGO programs supported under
the first component; (ii) experimental poverty ranking already carried out at the rayon (district) level; and
(iii) existing data and major findings from the social assessment. The first seven microprojects, that have
been identified prior to development of the full targeting strategy, will be identified on the basis of
existing information about poverty and will be implemented in areas that are visibly poor, and in areas
not reached by the NGO programs supported by the first component. In addition to poverty levels, the
targeting methodology will reflect some geographic and ethnic balance, and infrastructure needs. By
December 31, 1997, the TASIF will have developed a targeting strategy satisfactory to IDA to guide
distribution of resources for the rest of the Project duration.
4.19   Promotion. Efforts will be taken to increase awareness among community members, potential
requesting and implementing agencies, and the private sector of availability of funds, the types of
microprojects supported by the TASIF, the centrality of community participation, the selection criteria,
and the procedures to be followed to obtain funds. In the first year, the TASIF will avoid large-scale
promotion activities to avoid raising expectations that cannot be met. Promotion activities will begin at
the end of the first year in targeted regions so as to generate proposals to be financed during the second
year. Whenever feasible, the TASIF will contract out promotion activities and coordinate with NGOs,
especially those involved under the first component, and with local government networks.
4.20   Identification. Microprojects will be proposed by local organizations, including local
governments, NGOs, parents and women's committees, farmers' cooperatives, health committees, and
newly-created community-based organizations. Selection criteria will be stipulated in the operational
manual, which will be acceptable to IDA at all times. The criteria for selection of the first seven
microprojects include: labor content of at least 20 percent; community contribution of at least 10 percent
(in kind or cash); cost less than US$20,000; positive impact on the lives of poor groups; implementation
possible during the winter; interest of a community organization in collaborating with the TASIF;
rehabilitation and not reconstruction; and no adverse affect on the environment. The selection criteria and
menu of microprojects will be defined and modified as necessary based on experience accrued during the
first batch of microprojects, and in consideration of the capacity of TASIF staff or qualified firms to
appraise and supervise different types of microprojects. The TASIF will start with financing a small menu
of microprojects, mostly small infrastructure works. As intermediaries and TASIF management gain
capacity, it could expand into more complex microprojects. Bank supervision and technical reviews will
monitor the capacity in the TASIF or other service providers.
4.21   Preparation. To support the TASIF's participatory objectives, the TASIF will develop
microproject proposal documents that are simple and standardized to enable communities to translate
Project ideas into feasible proposals. These will be adjusted accordingly during the first year of the
Project and integrated into the operational manual. When technical studies for microprojects are required,
they will be contracted by the TASIF. Preparation costs will be calculated according to instructions to
be provided in the operational manual.
4.22   Appraisal. The first seven microprojects will challenge the TASIF to standardize appraisal criteria
and procedures for different types of microprojects. Technical, institutional, social, and economic analysis
will be carried out for each microproject, and the tools and methods for doing this analysis will be
transferred to the operational manual. The TASIF will integrate criteria for community contribution (in
kind or cash), labor content, operation and maintenance into appraisal.
4.23   Approval. The Executive Committee will be responsible for considering the approval of
microprojects costing US$50,000 or less. The Executive Committee will be headed by the Executive
Director and will comprise the Finance and Administration Manager; the Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation Manager; two Microprojects Area Managers; and the Legal Advisor. The first batch of



- 19 -
microprojects and any microproject over US$50,000 will be subject to approval by the Board for Project
Realization and subject to no-objection from IDA.
4.24  Implementation. When a proposed microproject is approved by the TASIF, the local organizations
proposing the activity will become the "implementing agency" and enter into a framework agreement with
the TASIF. Whenever feasible, works will be carried out by small private contractors using labor-
intensive construction techniques in order to generate jobs. The maximum size of a microproject will be
US$150,000 though few will exceed US$50,000.
4.25   Supervision. The TASIF will decide the mode of implementation in consultation with
communities. A standard multi-party framework agreement will be signed by the implementing agency
and the TASIF, stipulating the responsibilities of each party. The framework agreement will be based
upon those used successfully in other social funds and be experimented with during project preparation.
The implementing agency will select and contract contractors under the supervision of the TASIF. The
regulations for competitive bidding will be tested and integrated into the operational manual.
Implementing agencies will enter into a separate agreement with an independent supervisor for daily, on-
site supervision of civil works contracts.
4.26   Handover. During the first year of the project, the TASIF will develop a protocol for handing
over completed microprojects to communities which will be integrated into the operational manual. This
may be done through a completion and handover meeting attended by all those involved with the
microproject.
4.27   During the first year of the project, 10-15 pilot microprojects (i.e. the initial batch of 7, plus a
second batch of about as many) will be implemented in order to test and modify as needed the targeting,
promotion, appraisal, approval, supervision, monitoring and evaluation procedures and the accounting,
MIS and administrative systems. The operational manual will be reviewed again by the TASIF Board and
IDA by the end of the first year of the project and will be used to guide the selection and implementation
of the next batch of microprojects, which will consist of 50-60 microprojects. Altogether, an estimated
70 microprojects averaging US$35,000 will be implemented during the Project.
D. Economic analysis and cost recovery
International NGO programs
4.28   The international NGO programs to be supported through the Project are all in operation and have
each been evaluated already. One of the criteria for their selection was their cost-effectiveness, and so
each program has already had a positive economic judgement.
4.29   Shelter and House Rehabilitation Program. In considering the economic analysis of this program,
the social assessment found poor housing to be a major factor in poverty and a very high priority for the
poor. Also the existing program has shown that the provision of food and materials and the creation of
work brigades generates considerable community participation, helps to create social cohesion and often
leads to other tasks and economic activities. The house owners and the communities contribute
substantially to the shelter and the house rehabilitation program. Besides their contribution of labor, they
are involved in the selection of beneficiaries, program monitoring, and negotiations with village
authorities. Home owners are also required to pay for the cost of ceilings, windows and doors, which
could amount to $50 per house. The unit cost for the rehabilitation of the houses is reasonable: the direct
unit cost of a re-roofed house is about $1,700, of which timber accounts for nearly fifty percent.
Overhead costs are estimated at 13 percent. An analysis has also been made of the economic advantage



- 20 -
of using tiles rather then asbestos sheets. Although the latter are slightly cheaper, tiles last twice as long
and are considerably cheaper to repair. Health risks of asbestos are also avoided.
4.30   The Micro Credit Program. The program has a direct impact on the economic well-being of
families negatively affected by the war by stimulating economic activities at the local level.  This is
particularly important in view of the lack of any other formal source of credit. The results thus far of
the SCF-US pilot GGLS program have proven that micro-enterprises in Tajikistan can succeed. A total
of $62,000 has been disbursed to date to 524 members, whose loans are protected by 28 groups. The loan
repayment rate is 100 per cent, enabling SCF-US to collect $50,000 in repayments already and continue
to make loans of increasing size to existing members. It has started a process of social cohesion and
provides access to credit for women who have no other source. It has assisted these clients in their asset
building process. In the future program, it is projected that cost recovery will remain high and there will
also be a new savings element introduced into the program. Despite its effectiveness, however, the costs
of delivering a loan are somewhat high. An evaluation of the program a year after its implementation
found that administrative costs amounted to nearly sixty percent of the total. Micro finance experience
shows that such high costs at the start up stage of a micro credit program are not unusual, and over half
of the costs of the scaled-up program will still be to finance support and investment expenditures. The
proportion of administrative costs is projected to decline rapidly by sixty percent by the end of the
project.
4.31   The Program of Support to Female-Headed Households. The evaluation of this program in 1995
concluded that the program had already successfully helped to improve the physical welfare of children
through increasing their access to food, clothing (and to some extent) educational materials. It also
concluded that the project inputs were improving the economic well being of households through both
increased consumption and market sales. The provision of agricultural assets such as livestock, seed and
tools, as well as technical advice, will increase further income levels.  The program will improve
household food security and generate a small income for families through the sale of products and it will
also contribute to social stability in an area which suffered greatly from war. SCF-UK's experience shows
that a significant positive impact can be derived by explaining the land reform process and mechanisms
for applying for land. This complements policy reform at the national level. Baseline data collected by
SCF-UK's for analysis of the cost effectiveness and benefits of the project activities will enable not only
the measurement of the overall economic benefits provided, but also an analysis of household income
overtime. Cost recovery will be in cash or in-kind, and will amount to between 100-120 per cent of the
value of the agricultural commodities provided to the households originally.
4.32   The Agricultural Reform Program has expanded much more rapidly than initially anticipated when
it began in late 1993, and the potential for additional scale-up is great. A mid-term evaluation of PRDP's
work clearly notes the success of the various program activities. In 1993 PRDP negotiated agreements
between kolkhoz (collective) farm authorities and private farmers for only 83 hectares on a pilot basis.
By 1996 this figure had strikingly increased to 1,954 hectares, which reflects a total of 2,118 agreements
between government authorities and some 4,725 farmers, with many additional farmers waiting to
participate. In addition, recent introduction of improved seeds from abroad and subsequent local
propagation has produced dramatic increases in crop yields among farmers who privately manage their
land as compared to those of the kolkhoz. Most participating farmers have obtained yields 3-4 times
higher than before, with the winter wheat crop often yielding 6 metric tons of wheat per hectare. The
planned expansion of the program will bring 3,662 hectares of new land under cultivation, and 1,600
farmers will avail of improved seed and technical guidance from PRDP. The program is highly desirable
from an economic point of view. The cost of bringing one hectare of new land under cultivation will be
only US$174. And, using very conservative figures for yields on new lands and the cost of a ton of flour
in GBAO, the total project investment of US$650,000 will be recouped within only three years. Within
eight years, the total value of the wheat produced on the new land will be approximately US$11 million.



- 21 -
Cost recovery is already working well, with the farrners paying back in cash or kind materials (i.e. seeds,
fertilizer, and fuel) provided to them on credit. This will be continued through the scaled-up program.
TASIF Microprojects
4.33   For the TASIF microprojects, there are two main issues: (a) the relative costs and effectiveness
of a demand-driven social fund, compared to other types of social protection and employment programs;
and (b) at the micro level, the criteria for the choice of individual microprojects.
4.34   The Ministry of Labor currently operates a public works program (employing 2,762 workers in
mid-1995), and a very limited food-for-work program (reaching 700 workers). In addition, the
Government runs a cash benefit system that includes bread allowances, child allowances, student stipends,
pension benefits, unemployment benefits and other subsidies. The rationale for supporting a social
investment fund rather than expanding the existing government programs is premised on the following:
(i) the limited capacity of the current ministries, especially the Ministries of Labor, Social Protection,
Education and Health, and the difficulties experienced in other Central Asian countries in trying to
increase the efficiency of their current programs (especially in a context of fiscal collapse); and (ii) the
limitations of the transfer programs--even with IDA support through the ARSP project and improved
targeting--due to the heavy fiscal drain and constrained capacity of the Government to increase levels of
tax collection.
4.35   Regarding economic analysis at the microproject level, the demand-driven nature of the project
means that it is difficult to predict the overall economic rate of return in advance. Evidence from public
works programs worldwide suggests that cash wages paid by SIF-financed microprojects alone are not
more cost effective than cash transfers. Thus, for public works to be justified, they must create useful
assets. To ensure the cost effectiveness of individual microprojects, calculations will be made on the first
batch of microprojects to assess various norms and standards, costs per labor day of employment, cost
per beneficiary and possible rates of return for different types of microprojects (such as water supply),
in order to uncover those types of investments that accrue higher returns. Those investments with higher
returns will be reflected in the menu of microprojects. By the second year of the Project, the MIS and
unit cost database will be fully operational which will help the TASIF to arrive at least cost solutions to
infrastructure needs. The beneficiary impact assessment will ascertain the impact of pilot microprojects
on communities, and will enable the TASIF to gain understanding about who in terms of gender, age,
socioeconomic group and vulnerable status is actually benefiting. Demographic information on laborers
hired under TASIF-financed microprojects could be gathered and some assessment made of the impact
of wages on household incomes. All of this information will be valuable during the second year of the
Project as the Government and donors consider the economic rationale of continuing the TASIF after
project completeness. One of the expected outcomes of the proposed Project is that the Borrower will
demonstrate that the TASIF is a cost-effective, transparent, and efficient organization for channeling small
amounts of money to Tajik communities, and that donors will be interested in contributing funds to enable
the TASIF to continue.
E. Sustainability and Expected Impact
International NGO Programs
4.36   In 1993-4 much of the external assistance to Tajikistan was to support relief efforts, in which
sustainability was not a dominant issue. The current phase of external support is dominated by
"rehabilitation" efforts that seek to restore physical and human capital destroyed during the civil conflict.
In contrast, the proposed Project aims to go further than this in promoting development, based on
investments combined with popular participation. The sustainability issues in the first component of the



- 22 -
project address primarily questions of sustainability of impact, although increasingly emphasis will be
placed on the sustainability of the new processes being put in place.
4.37    The Shelter and House Rehabilitation Program.  Sustainability of impact has already been
demonstrated in the earlier phases of this program, and the reconstruction of homes meets a priority need
of poor families in areas affected by civil conflict. Many of the residents of these areas were internally
displaced from the war, and their first need, in returning to their destroyed homes to resume their lives,
is for a place to stay. The rebuilding or repair of habitable structures is also a first step in a process of
re-establishing viable communities. The basic structure, created through the program, is followed by
further voluntary home improvements entirely from local resources, and provides both a physical and a
moral basis for further developments: by investment in family gardens, development of household level
economic activities (small stock, silkworm cultivation, baking bread, petty commerce, group micro-credit)
and in community infrastructure (water, roads, schools, kindergartens etc). In addition, the work
brigades, formed largely of neighborhood residents who help each other in reconstruction work,
contribute to social cohesion and further economic cooperation.  They also help to reintegrate
able-bodied, economically active men into local society, one of the most compelling needs for economic
rehabilitation.
4.38   The Micro Credit (Group Guarantee Loans and Savings) Program. The aim is to develop the
existing program   into a sustainable local NGO or financial services institution that can operate
independently within four years and can sustain the access to capital for poor women. Within two years
from the start date of this upscaled program, a core group of borrowers and GGLS staff will begin
participating in SCF-US sponsored training and will produce an agenda for the development of a local
apex institution that can fully operate a microcredit program within four years. Various operating
responsibilities related to the GGLS program will be handed over to the client groups after the last year
of the Project period (which will be the fourth year of the GGLS program) as their capacity dictates. In
the fourth year of the GGLS program, groups receiving credit and savings services will be managed and
monitored by this apex NGO. The GGLS program will also be linked, through the monitoring and
evaluation process, to the TASIF according to the operational manual guidelines. This should enable
GGLS to network with client groups and organizations beyond its present area of operation and enable
it to increase its client base. To address the issue of financial sustainability, savings will be an important
component of the project.  Savings serves as an indicator of profit and commitment as well as
sustainability. The GGLS program will require clients to save on a weekly basis which will total three
per cent percent of the loan in a cycle. Group savings perform many functions, including serving as a
guarantee for defaults and being available for future capital expansion. Group members will be
encouraged to open individual or group savings accounts once the banking facilities are available in the
area. All 3,750 group members will get loans in three month cycles. At the close of the first year of the
project 3,450 loans will be disbursed to 1,500 members. Disbursed loans will be protected by 100
groups, averaging 15 members per group. In the first and second quarter of the first year 20 groups each
will enter the first loan cycle. Similarly in the second year 30 groups each will enter the first loan cycle.
Similarly, in the second year, 30 groups each in first and second quarters, and 45 groups each in last
two quarters, will join the first cycle of loan. Upon the successful completion of a loan cycle in the end
of each quarter, groups will enter a new loan cycle and will remain constant once they reach the fourth
cycle. Repayments of loan with interest from the first year will be revolved for continued funding in
subsequent years. The proposed loan funding will allow all groups to reach the fourth loan cycle and
continue receiving loans indefinitely provided additional funding is secured to pay a portion of the
program costs. SCF-US estimates the program will be 6 percent operationally self sustainable at the end
of the first year and 27 percent, 72 percent and 144 percent at the end of the second, third and fourth
years respectively, with the standard interest charge of 10 percent (to which 3 per cent will be added to
make the total service charge 13 per cent). However, the three percent will be deposited in group names
and will remain as the savings for the group. Groups will have full authority in the utilization of the
savings fund.



- 23 -
4.39   Support to Female-Headed Households Program. These households are among the most
vulnerable in the areas affected by civil conflict. The small inputs provided to the most severely affected
families from the civil conflict have enabled a modest but sustained improvement in family economy and
health, as evidenced by the nutritional state of the children. The evaluation of August 1995 found
abundant evidence that the project had generated productive family investment (livestock increase, family
stocks of seed) and household economic activities. Although started as a relief exercise, payback in kind
(seed potatoes, small stock) was introduced in order to increase sustainability and cost-effective coverage.
Equally important, the advocacy and educational work with women has generated a tangible increase in
their motivation and self-confidence, for example in dealing with local authorities over land rights or
other entitlements. The continuation of this project over two years in Bokhtar and its extension to Vakhsh
will extend this impact, with attention to improving the payback system. The inclusion of an element of
documentation, training and extension is intended to ensure replication of this project in other parts of
the country where SCF-UK does not operate, possibly with the support of TASIF.
4.40   The Agricultural Reform Program  This program is still extremely relevant for GBAO. Since
the collapse of the Soviet Union, the whole populace of GBAO has been dependent upon AKF-sponsored
food rations for survival. Change is occurring, however, and in recent years initial steps have been taken
by PRDP towards the development of a sustainable agricultural system. A mid-term evaluation of the
NGO's work conducted in 1995 concluded that wheat self-sufficiency is possible in future years if land
reform continues and the general economy of the region improves. This program has as its target the
additional cultivation of 3,877 hectares of new land which, along with the previously privately managed
land coordinated by PRDP, will produce some 14,000 metric tons of wheat in the next two years, which
is approximately half of the region's total requirement. Private entrepreneurship will also be encouraged
through the sale of food surplus. In this regard, PRDP is actively fostering the development of local
markets, which are crucial to the establishment of a sustainable agricultural system for GBAO.
TASIF microprojects
4.41   The fact that the TASIF will be demand-driven makes it difficult to estimate quantitatively and
in advance the impact of the microprojects. Furthermore, the modest amount of funds for microprojects
during the Project means that the overall impact on poverty alleviation in a country with vast numbers
of poor will also be modest. However, the expected impacts are still significant and will include: (a) a
transparent mechanism (the TASIF) that could provide financing, monitoring, and technical support in
the future to an increased number of community requests for small investments, in the event that funds
continue to be made available for future activities; (b) improved quality, regularity and availability of
social and economic services used by the poor; (c) unskilled and semi-skilled jobs during the
implementation phase; and (d) increased capacity of community organizations to plan, manage and
implement small investments. While male laborers and their families are likely to be direct beneficiaries
of most short-term job opportunities created by the microprojects, women and children in 70
communities, averaging 2,000 population each, will benefit as a result of the rehabilitation and restoration
of small infrastructure and services.
4.42   Sustainability is a concern at both the institution (TASIF) and microproject level. First, although
the Project is being conceived as a short-term program of three years, if it is successful the TASIF could
and should be continued. The Project will build the institutional capacities of TASIF, as well as local
agents (such as local government units and NGOs), so that they could carry out poverty alleviation
programs in the future. Second, presentation of a plan for operating and maintaining the microproject will
be one of the criteria for microproject approval. Priority will be given to repairs and reconstruction of
facilities that are currently operating and for which salaries of service personnel are already budgeted.
Finally, the emphasis on community participation in microproject design and implementation will improve



- 24 -
the prospects for sustainability. The ability of communities to pay directly for the operating and
maintenance costs of rehabilitated infrastructure may be limited, and so it is envisaged that local
contributions (equivalent to 10 per cent of the total cost of each microproject) may often be in the form
of donated time and labor, rather than money.
F. Enviromnental Analysis
International NGO Programs
4.43   In selecting NGO programs for support through the Project, one of the major criteria used was
their environmental impact, thus favoring the selection of projects that will have either a positive
environmental impact, or at least no negative impact.
(a) The Shelter and House Rehabilitation Program will make a significant improvement to the
built environment, both in terms of health and aesthetically, with no adverse impacts on the
natural environment. In particular, the promotion of tiled roof technology over the previously
used asbestos sheeting will remove a potential health hazard. The reconstruction of ruined houses
also acts as an incentive to further environmental improvements, such as clearance of rubble and
other evidence of war damage, improvement of environmental sanitation, and removal of other
health hazards. SCF-US has also instituted extensive checks to ensure that food provided under
the food for work scheme is fit for human consumption.
(b) The Micro Credit Program and the Program Support to Female-Headed Households encourage
small-scale income generation activities which are either environmentally neutral or beneficial,
as in the case of encouragement of low external input farming systems and food production (crop
rotation, natural fertilizers) in place of high agrochemical input cotton production.
(c) The AKF/PRDP Agricultural Reform Program involves extension of gravity-flow irrigation
systems, expansion of arable land on the edges of existing fields and in valleys, and careful use
of fertilizers. In this context, AKF's long-standing commitment to socially and environmentally
sustainable development is relevant; the organization has extensive experience in agricultural
development in fragile mountain settings (e.g. in the Northern Areas of Pakistan), and promotes
sound cultivation practices, including terracing and reforestation to retain and enhance soil
fertility. Any use of fertilizers and other agrochemicals will be carefully controlled by
monitoring and farmer education.
(d) Similar environmental criteria will be applied to any other projects to be supported under the
first component of the project.
TASIF Microprojects.
4.44   Institutional support to TASIF is environmentally neutral. Microprojects to be supported under
TASIF will be individually screened and monitored for environumental impacts according to criteria to be
included in the operational manual. The project staffing structure ensures environmental analysis
capability by including the post of environmental specialist.



- 25 -
G. Monitoring and Evaluation
Integrated Evaluation
4.45   An independent integrated evaluation at mid-term and project completion will be contracted by
TASIF to be undertaken by a consultant leading a multi-disciplinary team of local and international
experts. Implementing INGOs will each nominate a team member, but the team as a whole will evaluate
all aspects of both components of the project including TASIF's institutional capacity. It will visit project
sites, review reports and indicator measurements in the light of its own observations and investigations,
and seek to establish lessons to be learned both at mid-term and for Project follow-up. It will report both
to TASIF and to the Bank. Further details are in Annex L.
4.46   Key objective indicators will be measured and monitored by the Project in order to track, in a
consistent and comparable fashion, the essentials of performance against objectives. The first Project
objective of impact on the incomes of the poor will be measured across all sub-components by five key
indicators, of which two will indicate the extent to which this objective has been met in a cost effective
and participatory fashion. In addition, each sub-component will be evaluated according to three specific
indicators relating to the particular program (e.g. shelter, micro-credit, agricultural production of female-
headed households, agricultural reform) and particular aspects of impact, coverage and sustainability.
The second Project objective of capability building will be measured by two general indicators across
all components, with a third relating specifically to the training of TASIF staff.   Thus each sub-
component will be evaluated on ten indicators, of which seven are common to all sub-components of the
Project, and three are specific to each sub-component.  These indicators, and the specific measures and
instruments to compile them, will be refined in a pilot baseline exercise .
International NGO Programs
4.47   Monitoring and evaluation activities have already been a prominent feature of the existing NGO
programs, and both Lhe findings and systems used will be built upon in the scaled-up programs. The
Project will closely monitor the scaled-up programs. Specifically, the NGOs will be asked to report to
the TASIF on a quarterly basis on the following: (i) summary of achievements: number of beneficiaries
reached (direct and indirect) versus goal; cost per beneficiary (total NGO program cost divided by
number of beneficiaries); labor content as a percentage of the NGO program budget; number of person-
days of employment generated; and operating costs as a percentage of the NGO program budget; (ii)
obstacles and issues to be overcome and resolved; (iii) targeting; (iv) community participation; (v)
financial reporting; and, (vi) sustainability.  In addition to this the NGOs will report to TASIF on
achieved targets in order to trigger release of payments by TASIF to the NGOs (see Annexes B-E).
4.48   Each of the NGO programs will also have a monitoring schedule based on its specific
characteristics (see Annexes B-E). Specifically: (i) the shelter and house rehabilitation program will be
monitored through eight indicators these are: beneficiaries, female participation, reconstruction,
distribution of materials and food and average inputs per house, construction quality and contribution to
poverty alleviation; (ii) the micro-credit program will be monitored through the bi-weekly visits to the
groups using indicators relating to group information such as business activities, attendance, repayments
and savings (iii) the program of support to female-headed households will monitor the distribution and
use of productive assets. These will be monitored on a monthly basis and at the end of each repayment
period. Field workers will report on advocacy activities every two weeks; and, (iv) the work of the
district field staff of the agricultural reform program will be monitored periodically through field visits
by PRDP staff (Deputy General Manager, Irrigation Engineer, and Agricultural Supervisor) from the
Khorog Head Office and by periodic visits by AKF staff from Geneva. Key indicators to be monitored
are number of kilometers of channel construction which have been completed, the number of schemes
completed and the number of hectares of land brought under cultivation.



- 26 -
TASIF microprojects
4.49   An integrated monitoring and evaluation system will be developed during the first year of the
project in order to monitor and evaluate the institutional development of the TASIF and the impact of
TASIF-financed microprojects. Indicators for monitoring the progress and development of the TASIF are
given in Annex P. The means for verifying these indicators will be quarterly reports, Bank supervision,
technical assistance reports and audits. The objectives of the monitoring and evaluation activities will be
to (a) determine if there is compliance between TASIF operating regulations and procedures for
implementing contracts and microprojects; (b) provide information regularly on progress toward achieving
desirable results and facilitating reporting to the TASIF Board, the Government and donors; (c) alert
managers to actual or potential problems in implementation so that adjustments can be made; and (d)
determine whether the Project is benefiting the intended people and how. This system will comprise
microproject monitoring by TASIF staff and communities; the MIS; and a beneficiary assessment. When
fully operational, the computerized MIS will track progression of microprojects through the microproject
cycle, provide transparency and accountability of financial flows, monitor civil works progress based on
field supervision reports, and flag microprojects experiencing unusual delays and cost overruns. By the
second year of the project, MIS-generated information will be used in the daily decision making and
operations of the TASIF; and will be an integral part of the reports submitted by the TASIF management
to the TASIF Board; and of quarterly reports and comprehensive annual reports submitted to donors.
While the MIS will generate information on the physical and financial progress of works, a beneficiary
assessment will be utilized to evaluate the impact of microprojects on benefiting communities.



- 27 -
V. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Project Costs
Summary of Project Costs
5.1         The total project cost is estimated at US$12.7 million equivalent including duties and
taxes of US$0.1 million. The estimated cost and foreign exchange by components are shown in Table
5.1 below. Annex M contains detailed project cost by types of expenditures.
Table 5.1: Summary of Project Costs by Component
(in US$ million)         Foreign      % of
Exchange     Total
%    Base
Cost
Local     Foreign     Total
1. Scaling-up of Existing Poverty Alleviation Programs of NGOs
A. Shelter and house rehabilitation program           1.00       2.17       3.17       69          27
B. Micro-credit program                              0.62       0.42        1.04       40          9
C. Program of support to female-headed households    0.63       0.41        1.03       39          9
D. Agricultural reform program                       0.38        0.27       0.65       42          6
E. Future Sponsored Programs                         0.44        1.19       1.64       73          14
Sub-total Scale-up Existing Poverty Alleviation Progs. of NGOs    3.71  4.46  7.53      59          64
11 Creation of the Tajikistan Social Investment Fund
A.. Institutional Development of TASIF               0.85        0.65       1.51       43          13
B. TASlFMicroprojects                                2.01        0.44       2.45        18         21
C. Integrated Evaluation of PPAP                   0.02       0.08       0.10        78          I
D. Audit of the PPAP                               0.01       0.14       0.15        95          1
Sub-total Tajikistan Social Investment Fund           2.89       1.31       4.21        31         36
Total BASE COST                                           5.96       5.77      11.73        49         100
Physical Contingencies                                    0.27       0.43       0.70        62          6
Price Contingencies                                        0         0.25       0.25       100          2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                       6.23       6.45       12.68      51          108
Note: Figures may not total due to rounding.
Price contingencies are based on base cost plus physical contingencies.
Basis of Cost Estimates
5.2     Project costs have been estimated in US Dollars due to difficulties in forecasting inflation
rates for local currency. Estimates for civil works and goods, including construction materials, equip-
ment and vehicles required for the scaled-up programs to be implemented by international NGOs, as
well as for the establishment and operation of TASIF are based on the itemized cost estimates in the
NGO's submitted proposals as well as on unit prices for similar items recently procured in the coun-
try by other aid agencies. Estimates for management and administration services of the selected
NGOs required to implement their programs are based on rates provided, and on the basis of recent
prices for comparable services. The estimated Project cost also include the institutional strengthening
of the newly established TASIF. The average cost of microprojects, consisting mainly of small civil
works, is estimated at US$35,000 equivalent, with the maximum being US$150,000 equivalent.



- 28 -
These estimates have been reviewed by Bank staff and found acceptable. Base cost estimates reflect
prices as projected at time of negotiations.
Incremental Operating Costs
5.3 The operating costs for TASIF are estimated at US$0.99 million equivalent and consist of: a)
maintenance for facilities and equipment procured and leased under the Project; b) salaries of TASIF
staff, as well as per diem expenses for field work and trips related to the Project; c) consumable
office supplies; (d) salaries of contract staff; and (e) office operating expenses such as utilities, repro-
duction and communication charges related to the project. Items will be procured according to the
procedures described in the operational manual in compliance with IDA Guidelines. The personnel
for TASIF will be hired on fixed term contract through a competitive selection acceptable to IDA.
Foreign Exchange Component
5.4    The foreign exchange component of US$6.45 million represents 51% of project cost, net of
duties and taxes. The foreign exchange component was estimated as follows: a) small civil works for
microprojects, 20%; b) goods: equipment (including computers and related office equipment) and
vehicles, 90%; furniture, 60%; technical assistance and services: foreign experts, 95%, local experts,
10%; study tours and fellowships, 100%; and local training, 10%.
Contingency Allowances
5.5    Physical contingencies (US$0.70 million) represent six (6) percent of the base cost. Price
contingencies (US$0.25 million) represent about two (2) percent of base cost plus physical contin-
gencies. Total contingencies represent about eight (8) percent of the base cost. Contingencies will
not be applied to the microprojects component and any increase in the average micro-project cost will
be reflected in a reduced number of microprojects financed.
Taxes and Customs Duties
5.6   Project costs include an estimated US$0.10 million equivalent in taxes and duties on civil
works and locally procured goods. Goods specifically imported for the Project will be exempt from
custom duties and taxes. International personnel will be exempt from local income taxes.
B. Project Financing
Financial Plan
5.7    The proposed Credit of US$12.0 million equivalent will finance 100 percent of the foreign
exchange component (US$6.5 million) and about 92 percent of local costs (US$ 5.7 million), exclud-
ing duties and taxes. The Government and/or participating entities will provide about US$0.7 million
equivalent or about five (5) percent of total Project costs.



- 29 -
Table 5.2: Financing Plan
Local      Foreign Exchange  Total Pro-
Costs                    ject Costs
USS M     US$ M            US$ M        %Project
IDA                                      5.5            6.5          12.0           94
GOT                                       0.7           0.0          0.7            6
TOTAL                                     6.2           6.5          12.7          100
Local Cost Sharing/Counter Part Funds
5.8    The Tajik local counter part funds will consist of: (a) the Government's local cost sharing
contribution (the rent of the building and utilities for TASIF); and (b) the micro projects (10% of the
civil works). In addition, the local community contribution to the micro projects representing about
10% of their costs will be mostly in-kind and is not included in the project cost.
C. Procurement
5.9    The TASIF will have overall administrative responsibility for Project coordination and over-
sight, including carrying out the procurement of the second (TASIF/Microproject) component of the
Project as well as the monitoring and review of the procurement activities carried out on its behalf by
the selected NGOs in the implementation of their sponsored programs. TASIF will be responsible for
ensuring that all implementing agencies undertake procurement according to procedures stated in the
operational   manual approved by the Bank. Procurement arrangements will be designed to increase
Project sustainability through involvement of communities, NGOs, and local governments in imple-
mentation and maintenance of microprojects and NGO programs; increase capacity of small private
contractors; respond to the need for flexible use of procurement methods, given the differences and
disparities in the institutional capacity of communities, availability of services, markets and local
contractors, and familiarity of local contractors with competitive bidding in different regions. Train-
ing will be provided for TASIF staff, implementing agencies and contractors involved in procurement.
5.10   The Presidential Decree establishing the TASIF has exempted it from the public procurement
and disbursement regulations, present or future, and has permitted the TASIF to test and develop pro-
curement guidelines based on the Credit Agreement that will be detailed in the TASIF operational
manual.
5.11   A contract will be signed between the TASIF and each of the international NGOs under the
first component of the Project - Scaling-up of existing poverty alleviation programs. The contractual
agreement will be based on the World Bank standard form of contract for consultant services under a
lump sum. The three International NGOs have been selected on a sole source basis. The NGOs will
act as procurement consultants to the TASIF and will follow agreed World Bank's procurement proce-
dures as described below and as set forth in the Credit Agreement utilizing the Bank's standard bid-
ding documents, adapted as appropriate, and as agreed with the World Bank for the procurement of
all items required to carry out their agreed programs. A similar approach will be used for the future
sponsored programs.



- 30 -
Summary of Procurement Procedures
5.12   Procurement of Works, Goods and Services will be in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995 (revised January and
August 1996) and "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" dated August 1981. Table 5.3 below summarizes proposed pro-
curement arrangements. Annex N contains the Project Procurement Plan.
Procurement of Civil Works
5.13   Civil Works (US $1.96 million) will be procured as follows:
(a) National Competitive Bidding (NCB). For civil works for Component II of the project
under the Microprojects, TASIF will follow the agreed procedures described in the operational manu-
al. All civil works contract above US$30,000 equivalent will be procured through NCB procedures
up to an maximum aggregate amount of US$1.18 million. The maximum size of the microprojects
will be US$ 150,000 equivalent.
(b) Small Civil Works (SCW). Civil works contracts below US$30,000 equivalent up to
and aggregate of US$ 0.68 million equivalent will be procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts
awarded on the basis of three quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in re-
sponse to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a description of the works, including basic
specifications, the expected completion date, a form of contract acceptable to the Bank and relevant
drawings if applicable. Since the contracts are small and widely scattered geographically, it is unlike-
ly that foreign firms will be interested, therefore ICB is not considered feasible.
(c)    Comunity Related Procurement: In exceptional circumstances works in remote areas
where contractors are not available, estimated to cost $10,000 equivalent or less per contract and
$100,000 equivalent or less in aggregate shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable
to IDA.
Procurement of Goods
5.14   Goods (US$ 4.39 million). Consisting of construction materials, equipment including com-
puters and office equipment, vehicles and supplies will be grouped to the extent possible and consid-
ering project objectives, in package sizes that will encourage competitive bidding. The following
methods of procurement will be followed:
(a) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures will be utilized for goods
for contracts above US$250,000 equivalent for a total of about US$2.72 million (62%
of total goods). These goods will consist of construction materials consisting of roof-
ing tiles and timber, inter alia.
(b) International Shopping (IS) procedures will be used for readily available off-the-
shelf goods (including equipment) of standard specifications that are small in value
estimated to cost less than US$250,000 (but more than $50,000) up to an aggregate of
US$1.24 million (27% of total goods). Due to the urgency to rehabilitate the first
200 houses by the end of 1997, IS procurement procedures will be used to procure
timber for roof trusses estimated at US$0.17 million necessary for their rehabilitation
(under the SCF-US Housing Program-2000 houses total). ICB procedures will be used
for the timber required to rehabilitate the remaining 1,800 houses. IS procedures will
require quotations from at least three (3) supplier from two different eligible coun-
tries.



- 31 -
(c) National Shopping (NS) procedures will be used for goods estimated to cost less
than US$50,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$0.39 million (5% of total goods)
consisting of goods ordinarily available in the country. Quotations from three suppli-
ers will be required.
(d) Direct Contracting (DC) procedures will be used to procure roofing tiles from
an established and experienced local NGO. The climatic conditions in Tajikistan allow
for a short construction window between June and October. It is expected that at least
200 houses can be built within this period in 1997 after the project becomes effective
if materials can be procured quickly. Therefore to achieve the objectives, tiles for
the first 200 houses will be procured through direct contracting from an established
and experience local NGO. This will allow delivery of tile required for the rehabili-
tation of the first 200 houses by the end of 1997 under the SCF-US housing program.
The estimated amount for this contract US$ 0.09 million. The remaining amount for
tiles and incidental services required to rehabilitate the rest of the houses will be pro-
cured utilizing ICB procedures. Direct contracting may also be used in special circum-
stances for microprojects subject to prior review and approval by the World Bank and
as stated in the Operational Manual.
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods.
5.15   For contracts for goods to be awarded on the basis of ICB, the Borrower may, as set
forth in the Credit Agreement, grant a margin of preference in the evaluation of bids up to
15% or the amount of applicable custom duties, which ever is lower, to qualified domestic
manufacturers of goods.
Selection Procedures for Consulting Services
5.16   Contracts for consulting services (technical assistance) as well as training required for the
Project will be awarded following the World Bank Guidelines for the "Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981). Consulting services
and training in the amount of US$4.59 million and US$0.20 million respectively, will be obtained
mostly through international NGO organizations for their administrative and management services
regarding the sponsored programs. The three international NGOs have been selected through a sole
source basis. There are several local consultants with the required skills and backgrounds; their par-
ticipation in project assignments is expected to be high. Technical assistance required under the the
three International NGO sponsored programs is itemized in the individual proposals in Annexes B-E.
Technical assistance for TASIF will include, but not be limited to, long-term technical advisor and
short term consultants, to assist the Finance and Administration Department and the Information and
Monitoring Unit of TASIF. Service contracts will consist of local supervisors hired by the imple-
menting agencies, for a specified term, to supervise microproject implementation. Engineering ser-
vices will also be contracted to provide the technical expertise required in finalizing proposals for
TASIF consideration. An independent, annual, ex-post technical and procurement review, will also
be financed under the project to ensure compliance with agreed procedures.



- 32 -
Table 5.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements (US$ '000) 1/
Procurement
Methods
ICB       NCB    Other                      NBF                                      Total
1. Civil Works
Microprojects/rehab                  1.18             0.78                                                     1.96
(1.00)            (0.67)                                                   (1.67)
Goods
Agriculture Items3l                                   0.11                                                    0.11
.__________________  _________                 (0.11)                                                  (0.11)
Construction Mate-       2.72                          0.60                                                    3.32
rials 4/                 (2.72)                       (0.60)                                                  (3.32)
Office EquipmeAt_'                                     0.47                                                    0.47
________________      _______    ________            (0.47)                                                  (0.47)
Other Equipment 6                                      0.12                                                    0.12
______________   ______   _______(0.12)                  __  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _(0.12)
Vehicles_/                                             0.35                                                    0.35
(0.35)                                                  (0.35)
Furniture-                                            0.016                                                    0.016
l _______________                _______             (0.016)                                                 (0.016)
3. Services
TA/Prog.Mgt.&Admi                                      4.59                                                    4.59
n. 2/                                                 (4.59)                                                  (4.59)
Training 91                                            0.20                                                    0.20
l _______________     .______                        (0.20)                                                  (0.20)
Loan Grant Fund. L~                                   0.56                                                    0.56
(0.56)                                                  (0.56)
Operating Costsi11                                     0.99                                                    0.99
(0.60)                                                  (0.60)
TOTAL PROJECT             2.72      1.18               8.78                                                    12.68
COSTS:                   (2.72)    (1.00)             (8.28)                                                   (12.0)
Figuresmay not addup due to rounding.
I/Figures in parenthesis are the resp,,ctive amounts financed by IDA
2/'Other' under Civil Works for Microprojects refers to Small Works (IDA 0.59 million), comm. related procurement
(IDA,0.08)
3/ilnternational Shopping (IDA 0.09 million), National Shopping (IDA 0.02 million).
4/Direct Contracting (IDA 0.10 million), National Shopping (IDA 0.33 million) Intemational Shopping (IDA 0.17)
_/lntemational Shopping (IDA 0.47 million)
6/lntemational Shopping (IDA 0.12)
7/Intemational Shopping (IDA 0.35 million)
8/National Shopping (IDA 0.016 million)
2/Procurement of consultants's services for technical assistance, NGO's program management and administration services
as well as training will be in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
ID/Refers to Micro credits and small grants to be disbursed according to procedures described in the particular programs.
11/Includes building and equipment maintenance, salaries for staff and office operation for the TASIF (IDA 0.60 mil-
lion)



- 33 -
Prior Review of Procurement Arrangements
5.17 Prior review by the IDA will be as follows:
(a)       Goods and Works:   Prior review of bidding documents for goods and
review of evaluation and recommendations for award of contracts, will be carried out for
all procurement utilizing ICB, and DC procedures. Contracts to be awarded using NCB,
SW, IS and NS procedures will require prior review of the list of the proposed goods, in-
cluding estimated costs. Standardized NCB, IS and NS bidding documents and proposed
contract awards, in a sufficient number (minimum of 5 each) to ensure compliance with
the Bank's Procurement Guidelines will be subject to prior review by the WB.
(b) Consulting Services: Technical assistance/services provided under the first com-
ponent of the project, have been described in the Lump-Sum contractual agreements be-
tween TASIF and the international NGOs. Draft contracts have been reviewed by IDA,
including the proposed fees. Future Sponsored programs under the first component of the
project will be subject to prior review. The selection of consultant firms and individuals
will be in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for use of Consultants (August
1981). Terms of reference for all consulting assignments will be subject to prior IDA
review. Terms and conditions of contracts for all technical assistance assignments, invita-
tion packages and evaluation reports of assignments costing more than US$30,000 each
for firms, and US$10,000 each for individual consultants will be subject to prior review
by IDA.
Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR):
5.18 A CPAR has not been prepared. Since the breakup of the FSU, all rules and regu-
lations concerning procurement have become basically invalid.  For this Project, the
Government will follow the World Bank's Procurement Guidelines as described above and
as set forth in the Credit Agreement.
Procurement Monitoring Requirements
5.19 Procurement will be carefully monitored by the TASIF. All documentation will be
kept at the TASIF office. TASIF Quarterly Reports and Yearly Reports will provide
information on procurement.
D. Disbursements
Schedule
5.20 The proposed IDA Credit is expected to be disbursed in about three (3) years which
included six (6) months for the finalization of accounts and submission of withdrawal
applications and other reports. Annex P contains the disbursement forecast which is based
on detailed discussions with the NGO's and which is considered realistic. The Project
Completion Date will be December 31, 1999, with a Credit Closing Date of June 30,
2000.



- 34 -
Disbursement Percentages
5.21 The proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed as shown in Table 5.4 below.
Table: 5.4 Estimated Disbursements of Credit
Category                       Amount of          Percent of expenditure
the Credit    to be financed
1. Civil works/microprojects         1.6         85% of total expenditure
2. Goods                            4.5        100% of Foreign expenditure,
Agriculture items, construction               100% of local expenditures (ex
materials, equipment, vehicles and              factory costs) 80% of local
furniture                                     expenditures for goods procured
locally.
3. Services:                         4.4                  100%
technical assistance and training
4. Operating Costs                   0.6                  100%
5. Unallocated                       0.9
Total                  12.0
Special Account
5.22 To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government of Tajikistan (TASIF)
will establish, maintain and operate, under conditions acceptable to IDA, a special account
in US dollars in a commercial bank that meets the requirements. During the early stage
of the project, the initial allocation of the special account will be limited to US$200,000.
However, when the aggregate disbursements under the Credit have reached the level of
US$1.0 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of
US$500,000 by submitting the relevant application for Withdrawal. Replenishment appli-
cations should be submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled bank
statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. A condition of Credit
effectiveness will be the initial deposit by the Government of its share of project
expenses for the first year, equivalent to US$75,000 into the project account. By the
end of October 1997, the Government will deposit the balance of its contribution
($175,000) of the Project, totaling US$250,000 equivalent.
5.23 Payment schedule for the management and administrative services contracted with
the international NGOs will be stated in their respective contractual agreements with
TASIF. Payments will be effected directly by IDA after verification of receipt of deliver-
ables as described in the contract. SCF-UK will receive an advance from the special ac-
count to be for up-front purchases necessary to implement the FHH project in an amount
needed to cover the first months of operation, and replenishment will take place after
reconciling invoices and receipts of expenditures incurred minus the advance. For the
SCF-US micro-credit program, a scroll account will be set up for the loan funds required



- 35 -
and kept on the name of the program to be disbursed according to procedures described in
the proposal. Interests accrued and mini loan repayments will be credited to this account.
5.24 For microprojects, goods and single purchases of less than US$50,000, disburse-
ments will be made on the basis of statement of expenditures (SOE). For microprojects,
disbursement will be made based on expenditures incurred under the framework agree-
ment for microproject implementation. For services, disbursement will be made on the
basis of SOE for disbursement less than US$30,000 to consulting firms and less than
US$10,000 to individuals. All other disbursements will be fully documented by the TASIF
in a manner acceptable to IDA. The SOEs and all records, including framework agree-
ments between the TASIF and implementing agencies, contractors, and bidding docu-
ments, invoices, and payroll vouchers will be retained by the TASIF to facilitate inspec-
tion by supervision missions and external audit.
5.25 Disbursement procedures for microprojects will be tested and modified as necessary
during the first year of the project. Disbursements for the first batch of microprojects will
be stipulated in the first draft of the operational manual. Modifications acceptable to IDA
will be made based on this experience and used for the second batch of microprojects.
Whenever possible, the TASIF will transfer the funds directly to the accounts of the sup-
plier and the contractor, upon authorization from the implementing agency.
Table 5.5 Estimated Credit Disbursement Schedule
Bank Fiscal Year
FY97     FY98      FY99      FY2000
Annual                0.2       2.4       5.0       4.4
Cumulative (US$       0.2       2.6       7.6      12.0
Million)           I_        I        III_ .
E. Reporting, Accounts and Audit
Progress Reporting
5.26 The Finance and Administration Department of TASIF will comprise skilled staff
and will receive technical assistance and training to develop an accounting system capable
of handling hundreds of microprojects and transactions. Prior to the development of this
system, the TASIF will use a simplified, off-the-shelf accounting system acceptable to
IDA in order to maintain accounts while the more sophisticated system is being devel-
oped. At all times, the TASIF will maintain accounts in accordance with the required
financial standards which will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA. The TASIF will provide IDA copies of reports submitted to the TASIF Board, in-
cluding Quarterly Reports, the Annual Plan, Annual Budget, and Annual Report.
Mid-Term Review
5.27 The Bank and TASIF will carry out a niid-tern project review by June 30,
1998. The review will be designed to evaluate the experience of the TASIF at the opera-
tional level. Draft terms of reference for the review will be provided by the Bank to the
Government and will be finalized in consultation with the TASIF.



- 36 -
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
5.28 The TASIF will prepare in conjunction with the Bank, an ICR upon completion of
the Project and in any event not later than six months after final disbursement of the
Credit proceeds. Included in the ICR will be an assessment of the execution and initial
operation of the Project, costs and benefits derived or to be derived, the performance of
the Borrower, the Bank and other agencies involved in the Project regarding their respec-
tive obligations and accomplishments, and including lessons learned.



- 37 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1      There are three types of benefit expected to be derived from  the Project.
(a)      First, about 44,000 households (or 5 percent of the population) will bene-
fit directly, either from the scaled-up programs run by the selected non-govern-
ment organizations, or from the micro-projects funded through the TASIF. The
benefits will be partly short-term, through increased employment generation and
better services, and partly longer-term, through improved living standards. These
benefits will also be varied in nature, including improved family incomes and
nutrition, reconstructed shelter, rehabilitated infrastructure, improved supplies of
agricultural inputs and services, and wider public availability of information.
Table 6.1: PPAP Outreach by Area and Beneficiaries 1997-1999
Program        Number of      Number of        Project Area      Benefits
Households     People Direct
Direct Bene-    beneficiaries
ficiaries
SCF US          2,000          12,000          Bokhtar, Vakhsh,   Shelter, short-term employment, food for work
Shelter                                        Kolkhozabad,
Shaartuz
SCF US         3,750          22,500           Kurgan Tube,      Financial services, micro-enterprise development, institu-
GGLS                                           Vose, Vakhsh,     tion building, income generation.
Bokhtar,
Kolkhozabad
SCF UK         3,700          22,200           Vakhsh, Aini,     Agriculture inputs, capacity building and institutional
Panjkent,         development, raised incomes, day care and schools.
Dushanbe,
Shaartuz
AKF             1,600          12,800          GBAO: Darwaz,   Agriculture development, institution building, raised
Vanch, Rushan,    incomes, seed production.
Shugnan,
Roshtkala,
Ishkashim
TASIF Micro   24,000           144,000         National          Institution building, social and economic infrastructure,
Projects                                                         raised incomes, improvement in social services at com-
munity level.
Unprogramed    4,000          24,000           National
Total          39,600          252,800
(b)      Second, the  Project will have  important institutional benefits, through
strengthening indigenous capacities to target, appraise and monitor efforts to
reduce poverty. This will not only be in the TASIF, but also in the national and
local govermnents, and in local non-government organizations.  In addition, the



- 38 -
Project will contribute to community strengthening through the increased involve-
ment and local ownership of development activities.
(c)    Third, the Project will set the stage for a larger program of poverty allevi-
ation in the future, modified as appropriate on the basis of the experience of the
pilot, and assist the Government in trying to attract additional financing.
B. Risks
6.2    There are three main risks associated with the Project. These are as follows:
(a)    First, the security situation in much of the country is fragile, and there is
still some fighting in the East. To reduce this risk, the first component of the
Project has been designed to support the extension of poverty alleviation activities
in areas where programs are already successfully underway. Expansion or replica-
tion of these or other programs and the microprojects financed by the TASIF will
be undertaken only where the situation is sufficiently stable.
(b)    Second, political factors could compromise the autonomy, credibility and
effectiveness of the programs supported by the international non-governmental
organizations and the newly established TASIF. The risk to the former will be
minimized through regular cooperation between the non-government organizations
and the TASIF staff. This cooperation will be facilitated by technical assistance
provided through the Project. This risk will also be reduced by detailing the roles
and responsibilities of the Government and the NGOs in individual contracts, and
monitoring fulfillment of obligations through the Project's monitoring and evalua-
tion system and regular Bank supervision. Another risk is interference in daily
operations which will compromise the TASIF's credibility and effectiveness to ap-
prove microprojects in an unbiased and rapid manner. To reduce these risks, the
TASIF is being established as a semi-autonomous body, with a Board of non-gov-
ernmental and governmental members and chaired by the Prime Minister. This ar-
rangement should create a high profile and broad ownership, and thus help protect
the integrity of the TASIF. There will also be comprehensive institutional checks
and balances, and efficient operating procedures detailed in the operational man-
ual, which will be checked closely during project supervision.
(c)    Third, there are risks associated with the limited managerial, technical and
institutional capacity of local organizations responsible for proposing and imple-
menting microprojects, and for financing the operation and maintenance of the
microprojects after completion. To reduce these risks, the appraisal procedures for
the microprojects will include careful analysis of institutional capacity, and techni-
cal assistance will be provided to fill institutional, technical and management gaps.
Furthermore, increased community participation in the identification and imple-
mentation of the microprojects will increase the likelihood that microprojects
respond to urgent community needs, thus increasing the likelihood for sustaining
investments.



- 39 -
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Conditions and Agreements
7.1   As a condition of Credit effectiveness:
-the Government will have deposited its initial contribution equivalent to
US$ 75,000 in the project account;
7.2    Dated covenants:
By December 31, 1997 the TASIF will have developed a targeting strategy satis-
factory to IDA to guide distribution of resources of the rest of the Project duration
(para 4.18).
By December 31, 1997 the TASIF will have submitted to IDA a proposal for the
use of the future sponsored programs funds (para 4.14).
By June 30, 1998 the TASIF will have carried out the mid-term project review
(para 5.27)
7.3    General conditions.
(a)    Agreement for World Bank procurement procedures to be used by the
TASIF for its own procurement.
(b)    Prior review of microprojects over $50,000
(c)   Implementation completion report.
B. Recommendation
7.7   Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project will constitute a suitable
basis for an IDA credit of SDR 8.7 million (US$12 million equivalent) to the Republic of
Tajikistan, to be repaid on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity, including 10 years
of grace at standard IDA terms.



- 40 -
ANNEX A
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
BASIC SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population mid-1995 (millions)                            5.8
Area (thousands square km)                               143.1
GNP per capita (US$)                                       370
GNP (billions US$)                                        2.2
Average annual growth, 1990-95
Population (%)                                             1.8
Labor force (%)                                           3.3
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)
Urban population (% of total population)                   32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                           67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 life births)                   47
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                        2



- 41 -
ANNEX B
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
SHELTER AND HOUSE REHABILITATION PROGRAM (SAVE THE CHILDREN-US)
SUMMARY
1.    The proposed two-and-a-half year project will alleviate poverty through assisting 2000 returned
families in the self-help reconstruction of their homes in five districts most devastated by the recent civil
war.  This is 37% of the identified need. 420 tonnes of food (wheat flour, beans and oil) will be
provided to over 100 work groups each of 15-20 persons, representing an estimated 210,000 days of
labor. At least 2000 other families are expected to benefit through reduction of overcrowding, double
and triple family occupancy of single homes being common. The project will also promote the adoption
of environmentally sound roofing technology ie. use of fiber-cement tiles in place of asbestos roofing
sheets. Local communities will be involved in beneficiary identification, monitoring of food distribution
and construction, and in the identification of subsequent priorities in poverty alleviation. The project will
be self-targeting, with controls to ensure the inclusion of the neediest beneficiaries and to prevent
misallocation of inputs. The project will operate in the priority need districts areas of: Bokhtar, Vakhsh,
Kolkhozabad, Kabodien and Shaartuz districts in the Khatlon region of Tajikistan. The project would
be implemented by SCF-US Tajikistan and would have a budget of $3.5 million.
OBJECTIVES
2.    Much of the devastation during the 1992-3 civil war was concentrated in two areas of Western
Khatlon Region. In some instances entire villages were razed. Although UNHCR and SCF-US have
assisted many thousands to rebuild their homes, there remains a backlog of over 6,000 identified families
whose houses are not rebuilt, the most needy districts being Bokhtar (2,000 houses), Vakhsh (1,700)
Kabodien and Shaartuz (750 each) and Kolkhozabad (400). These numbers are increasing as more
families return to their ruined homes. Most of these families cannot feed themselves or satisfy basic
health and education needs, let alone finance reconstruction. Even if they had the resources, locally
available roofing materials are lacking. Basic shelter (2-3 rooms) is a fundamental precondition for
economic rehabilitation, which can be carried out through other means (development of household plots,
income generation activities, employment creation, re-establishment of social service infrastructure).
Therefore it is not surprising that the social assessment of the Bank identified housing needs as a critical
priority of the poor.
3.    Compounding the situation is massive unemployment and underemployment; factories and
enterprises are non-functioning, the micro-economies of the kolkhozes and sovkhozes is in advanced
decline, and workers have either been laid off or receive no salaries, or partial and irregular salaries.
Skilled craftsmen, including carpenters, builders, mechanics, are largely idle or have left Tajikistan to
find employment elsewhere in the CIS. Finally, there is a chronic and serious food deficit. On a
different level, there is a pressing need to reestablish security, law and order, community cohesion, and



- 42 -
an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between local communities and local governments and institutions,
so that people can begin to resume normal lives. The cramped, destitute living conditions of the
populations can only serve to create or exacerbate local tensions.
4.    The project would aim to alleviate poverty by satisfying a significant portion (37 percent) of the
identified housing needs within two years, creating employment through seasonal local work groups, and
fostering community cooperation and solidarity through such neighborhood associations. The project
would also temporarily relieve the food deficit, pending an eventual rise in local food production, and
support local entrepreneurs and craftsmen in the promotion of an environmentally-sound technology: the
production and use of fiber-cement tiles.
5.    Specific objectives would be that, by the end of two years (March 1997 to March 1999):
(a)    Two thousand needy homeless families would have reconstructed basic shelter (kitchen,
living room/bedroom) with assistance from local Food For Work (FFW) brigades.
(b)    Local community FFW brigades would have carried out reconstruction activities for 2000
houses, and improved their families' food security through the estimated 420 MT of food
(wheat flour, beans, oil) which would be distributed as compensation for approximately
210,000 days equivalent of labor (note: FFW calculations are based on reconstruction
completed, not time spent).
(c)    The demonstrated practice of community participation in reconstruction, needs
identification and monitoring would have produced measurable positive changes in
community attitudes towards defining and meeting local development needs, both in the
project area and in other parts of the country (indirect benefit).
(d)    The successful use of fiber-cement roofing tiles would have supported the expansion of
an environmentally-friendly technology, the creation a cadre of skilled workers, both
within the program area and in other parts of the country (indirect benefit).
STRATEGY AND TARGETING
6.    The strategy would aim to alleviate poverty through supporting community self-help efforts to
create the physical and social infrastructure that will enable a community to address more long-term
needs. The area selected contains a majority of returned refugees and IDPs who need to be reintegrated
into local communities. Further direct targeting of beneficiaries would be undertaken during the project
to ensure that benefits will be targeted to the neediest families.  The project beneficiaries would be
primarily, although not necessarily exclusively, the neediest families with many small children, widows,
families caring for orphans and pensioners, and would include an equitable proportion of women-headed
households. Currently, approximately 30 per cent of the brigade members are women, many brigades
have a majority of women members, and some brigades are entirely composed of women. Similarly all
efforts have been made to ensure mixed ethnicity within the brigades. Emphasis is placed on this being
a community project, with equal participation from all elements of the community.



- 43 -
7.     The FFW element is designed to relieve food deficits, and to foster local cooperation in shelter
reconstruction. The donated supply of basic construction materials, beyond the means of poor families
to acquire, is supplemented by a significant local contribution in labor and in finishing. Work groups
make use of local skills.
8.     The above strategy has been shown to be a popular and effective way to meet several needs
simultaneously: reinforced community organization and participation, shortage of construction materials,
and shortage of food and employment opportunities, particularly for unemployed skilled artisans and
unskilled labor. The seasonal work program meshes well with off-season work in canal clearing. The
specific steps to implement the strategy, explained further below under the section on implementation,
are:
(a)    Extensive village meetings are held to inform people of the project, undertake social
mapping, identify eligible and needy beneficiaries and particularly ensure the inclusion
of women, calculate FFW and material requirements;
(b)    Village work brigades are formed and a work plan prepared;
(c)    Materials and food are procured, and their delivery and utilization monitored both by the
local representatives and the NGO.
9.     Two new elements have been included in the strategy of this project in order to improve
effectiveness and coverage.
(a)    As a sub-component of the project a subcontractor would supply tiels and train local
carpenters and artisans in roof construction (which is slightly different from that required
for asbestos sheeting), quality control and repairs.  In order to demonstrate the
technology and determine training needs, three demonstration houses would be roofed
with tiles prior to project effectiveness. The use of roofing tiles in place of the
previously-used asbestos sheets would remove a potential health hazard, and support
additional employment that would disseminate this technology more widely.
(b)    Site visits and training will be arranged for a small number of selected community
representatives and government officials from other parts of the country where there is
an identified housing need (rural Penjikent, Aini, Mascho), with a view to building
capacity in other local organizations for similar programs. The addition of a small
training and extension component will enable the methodology to be adopted and adapted
to the needs of other areas where SCF-US does not work, and where similar housing
needs of the very poor exist for reasons other than destruction in civil war.



- 44 -
ACTIVITIES
10.   Extensive village meetings would be held to inform people of the program modalities and its
limitations. Direct selection of the neediest areas is done initially from an already-prepared list of
beneficiaries, through community-based participatory social mapping, and consultation with other NGOs
working in the area and key community resource people (particularly informal leaders, neighborhood
(mahallah) community representatives) and local SCF-US staff to identify the neediest women-headed
households. These mechanisms will identify the neighborhoods of greatest destruction and/or poverty.
SCF-US organizers will work in pairs of one man and one woman, to promote women's participation and
assess the volume of reconstruction work (number of houses multiplied by the estimated percentage of
destruction). These organizers will also ensure, through spot visits and other means, that the beneficiaries
are indeed village residents, and that they have not received any free construction materials in the past
three years.
11.    SCF-US staff then calculate the food and material requirements. The material requirements are
calculated according to the annexed Technical Note 1, and the food requirements according to the
annexed Technical Note 2.
12.   Village brigades are formed (usually 15-20 persons), from the community members. Each
brigade elects a leader, and a detailed contract is formalized between SCF-US and the brigades (including
terms and conditions, details of each house owner and work to be done, and names of the brigade
members). Usually the brigade leader enters into a contract with the village executive committee for the
provision of transport. The establishing of such a relationship is hoped to encourage the extension of
official participation to include further negotiated contributions from their own resources towards minor
repair works of community benefit (e.g. repair of street lights).
13.    Roofing materials (tiles and timber) will be procured by International Competitive Bidding, except
for the requirements for the first two hundred houses which will be procured by Direct Contract and
International Shopping respectively. The materials will remain under SCF-US control from receipt to
delivery upon the brigade's completion of preparatory reconstruction work (to wall-plate level). The
delivery of the materials and food is authorized upon receipt of a satisfactory post-survey report prepared
by SCF-US. The brigade is responsible for organizing the transport and distribution of the items to the
respective beneficiaries. This process is rigorously monitored and documented fully by SCF-US.
14.   Food is released and distributed according to specified procedures against work done (historical
average is 210 kg. of food per house, consisting of 90 kg. wheat flour, 90 kg. beans, and 30 kg. edible
oil). House construction is seasonal (March to November), and food distributed for completed housing
is targeted to reach the beneficiaries during the most critical pre-harvest period of food shortages. (Note:
SCF-US's FFW activities continue for canal cleaning and war rubble clearance during the non-
construction period of the year under a program financed by USDA independently of this Shelter
program.
15.   In order to demonstrate the technology and determine training needs, three demonstration houses
were roofed with tiles prior to project start-up, to demonstrate the effectiveness of the tiles. Site visits
and training will be arranged for a small number of selected community representatives and government
officials from other parts of the country where there is an identified housing need (i.e. rural Penjikent,
Aini, Mascho), with a view to building capacity in other local organizations for similar programs.



- 45 -
16.    The schedule of activities is listed in Table 1. The following notes explain more precisely what
is the content of such activities, if not clarified above. (a) Hire staff: the staffing requirements, local and
international, are detailed under management below. Local staff are hired on contract for the duration
of the project; (b) Train staff: staff will be trained in the SCF-US methodology, including social
mapping; (c) Social mapping: this is an additional activity to ensure that the lists provided by officials
are objective identifications of poverty areas and poorer households. The maps will be prepared in
participatory fashion, and used for subsequent monitoring and programming; (d) Post survey: normally
it takes between three weeks to one month to construct a house, and brigades usually work on several
houses at a time. The post survey is a verification by SCF-US staff that the construction has been
satisfactorily completed, and is the basis for approval of distribution of commodities.
Table  1:   Schedule of activities
By End of Jun-97  Sep-97  Dec-97  Mar-98 Jun-98  Sep98  Dec-98  Mar-99 Jun-99  Dec-99
Construction Schedule
Hire staff           Mar-97
Train staff          Apr-97
ID Beneficiaries     Apr-97                             .
Consult officials    Mar-97
Village meetings     May-97
Social mapping                Jul-97
Finalize beneficiaries       Jul-97
Form brigades                 Jul-97
Orient brigades               Aug-97
Assign households             Aug-97  _                                        _
Rebuild 3 demo houses Done
Rebuild houses                  xx       xx      xx      xx      xx       xx      xx      xx        xx
Roofing material                                 xx      xx      xx       xx      xx      xx        xx
Post Survey                     xx                               xx                       xx
Food distribution               xx                               xx                       xx
Procurement Schedule
Hire consultant      Feb-97
Finalize materials specs Mar-97
Quote timber 200     Apr-97                            _                          = __=
Contract tiles 200 hh   Apr-97
Materials delivery            Aug 97
Prepare ICB docs 1800                                 _      _
Contracts timber & tiles     Jul-97
Delivery timber 1000 hh                       Jan-98
Delivery tiles 1000 hh                        Jan-98
Delivery timber 800 hh                                        Aug-98
Delivery tiles 800 hh                                         Aug-98
Output expected
200 houses                            Oct-97
1000 houses                                                   Oct-98
800 houses                                              -                      Jun-99



- 46 -
MANAGEMENT
17.   Overall management of the project would be the responsibility of the SCF-US Field Office
Director (FOD) in Tajikistan. The Program Officer (1) is responsible for overall monitoring and
reporting. Two Supervisors would collect and finalize the lists of needy families, identify the most
vulnerable, and supervise project implementation in the field. Ten Organizers are responsible for
monitoring the progress of construction and for supervising food and materials distribution. Necessary
support staff include: accountants (2), data entry clerks (3), computer specialist (1), secretaries (3),
logistics assistants (2), store keeper (1), warehouse keepers (2); drivers (2), guards (12), and cleaners (3).
Total full-time national staff costs are less than 6 percent of the entire project costs (excluding value of
food and local contributions).
18.   The project requires the part-time support of international staff whose costs are charged to the
project in proportion to their time allocation (time sheets are kept). The Field Office Director (FOD)
(20%), assisted by the Deputy FOD/Program (35%), is responsible for overall performance of the
project, delegation of duties, recruitment, performance and discipline of staff, and reporting to donors
and the Government of Tajikistan. The Deputy FOD/Administration and Finance (10%) is responsible
for financial management, monitoring, reporting and procurement. The Program Director (40%) and
Program Manager (20%) are responsible for the actual implementation and for all data management
requirements of the project, and for the MIS (already developed).
19.   SCF-US has operated in Tajikistan since 1994 under an agreement with the government and in
close cooperation with USDA, USAID and UNHCR. The proposed project would build on an area in
which capacity and experience has already been demonstrated. With over 160 staff, the organization has
mobilized over 18,000 people to rebuild their villages, and has ensured targeting of women and
accountability of transactions at village level.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
20.   The project rehabilitates ruined structures in existing habitations, where families are returning to
their former houses. The result is significant improvement in the built environment, with no adverse
impacts on the natural environment.
SUSTAINABILITY
21.   Sustainability of impact is built into the project, as the significant improvements to shelter would
remove a key constraint to income generation for poor families and enable them to concentrate on
productive investment of time; it would also have a positive impact on family health and therefore on
productivity by reducing overcrowding and improving living conditions.
22.   Sustainability of process is limited. The project strategy is a "rehabilitation" mode, mid-way
between relief and development, and is facilitated by external provision of food for work and building
materials. In some cases work groups have continued on their own dynamic, and they often participate
in further poverty alleviation and reconstruction activities (e.g. Group Guaranteed Lending, canal cleaning



- 47 -
and rubble clearance). but for the foreseeable future, until there is a substantial increase in local food
production and local security, most are likely to continue to rely on external inputs for some years to
come. The activity of reconstruction in Tajikistan depends almost entirely on external provision of food
for work, and scarce reconstruction materials. Unless the project continues, the remaining deficit of
4,000 houses, together with those of newly returned families, will only very gradually be rehabilitated.
23.    Outside the project area, the express aim would be to generate a sustained impact of process
independently of the project, although links with TASIF would be required to sustain this process on any
significant scale, especially in poor and marginal areas.
LINKS WITH TASIF
24.    It is expected that the work groups and village committees would  be informed  through this
Project and encouraged to develop proposals for co-financing self-help micro-projects. The training
and extension component is designed explicitly to generate capacity in other regions (e.g. eastern
mountains, Leninabad districts).
BUDGET
Main items by source (US$)
Line Item                  IDA          Community           USDA            Total
Investment costs
Construction materials     2,358,000           100,000                        2,458,000
Equipment                     15,000                                             15,000
Vehicles (2)                 50,000                                              50,000
Services, Int'l experts     298,414                               420           298,834
Services, Nat. experts        5,000                                               5,000
Training, Local              22,000                                              22,000
Recurrent costs
National staff               260,925                           36,417           297,342
Other admin                  156,840                           94,923           251,763
Local labor                                     88,000        261,600           349,60
GRAND TOTAL                3,166,179           188,000        393,360         3,747,539
Contribution by source     85%              5%              10%              100%
25.    The budget above summarizes main line items by source. The total costs of the project would
include the following:
(a) Community Contribution. Community  contribution  in labor for actual reconstruction work
is compensated through the FFW mechanism, which is not less than the local prevailing daily
rate for unskilled labor. In addition to the food compensation, the community/house owner will
contribute in terms labor and locally available material. Such contribution is estimated to be
$188,000 for the whole project. Community contribution is estimated to be nine labor-days for
roofing and 35 labor-days for finishing the house. Material contribution from the house owner,
for the ceiling, windows and doors, is estimated to be $50 per house. The community and the



- 48 -
house owners also contribute in many other ways, the total value of which is difficult to cost:
(i) selection of beneficiaries, social mapping, monitoring; (ii) negotiation with village authorities
for transport and other requirements: (iii) distribution of materials and food (under supervision).
(b) Village Executive Committees: The Village Executive Committees (grassroots level government
structure responsible for development activities in the village) are responsible for providing SCF-
US with lists of potential beneficiaries, and assist in carrying out surveys, calculating
distributions, and providing transport for the food and materials from SCF-US warehouses to the
community.
(c) USDA. USDA will provide 420 MT of food commodities, with a local market value of
approximately $261,600 (based on July 1996 market prices), and $131,760 for associated
handling costs. The contribution from USDA is calculated as a proportion of food to be used in
this project. Food calculation is based on SCF-US's existing norms of 210 kg. per house,
assuming an average of 75 % destruction.
MONITORING AND REPORTING
26.    Key indicators would be monitored by the Program Officer with participation from brigades. All
key indicators would be monitored monthly and reported quarterly.
27.    Quantitative
(a) Beneficiaries/poverty monitoring: number of reconstructed houses benefiting (i) families with
many children; (ii) widows; (iii) families with orphans; (iv) pensioners; (v) female-headed
households;
(b) Number/proportion of women participating in construction brigades: (monthly during construction
period);
(c) Number of houses reconstructed;
(d) Quantities of construction material distributed;
(e) Quantities of food distributed, and approximate labor days equivalent.
(f) Using information collected from points (c)-(e), determine the average inputs per house
constructed (used for forward planning, costing, and efficiency control). In addition, monitoring
is carried out by random unannounced visits.
Oualitative
(g) Construction quality and load-bearing capacity of walls and roofing must be adequate for tiles,
a material whose use is not well-known locally. Special efforts will be made by SCF-US and SNI
to ensure that all structures are adequate, that standards are maintained, and that roofing
performance under different conditions (rain, snow, high winds) is assured.



- 49 -
(h) A simple assessment of the contribution of housing to poverty alleviation (household standard of
living) will be undertaken, through post-reconstruction visits and individual/group interviews.
Local communities will be involved in this component.
Key Objective
(i) The program will also participate in the Project-wide monitoring of key objective indicators that
will measure progress toward the major objectives poverty impact and institutional capacity.
28.   Implementation, monitoring and financial reports will be forwarded quarterly by the FOD to the
officer designated by GOT. Quarterly reports will assess progress against targets, identify any reasons
for exceeding or shortfall of targets, and indicate consequent action already taken or to be taken. In case
of significant change to the implementation schedule, exceptional reports shall also be submitted to GOT.
INTEGRATED EVALUATION
29.   An independent integrated evaluation at mid-term and project completion would be contracted by
TASIF to be undertaken by a consultant leading a multi-disciplinary team of local and international
experts. Implementing INGOs including SCF-US would each nominate a team member, but the team as
a whole would evaluate all aspects of both components of the project including the SCF-US Shelter
program. The team would visit project sites, review reports and indicator measurements in the light of
its own observations and investigations, and seek to establish lessons to be learned both at mid-term and
for Project follow-up. It would report both to TASIF and to the Bank. Further details are in Annex L.
30.   Key objective indicators will be measured and monitored by the Project in order to track, in a
consistent and comparable fashion, the essentials of performance against objectives. The key objective
indicators are summarized in Table 1 of Annex L. The first Project objective of impact on the incomes
of the poor will be measured across all sub-components by five key indicators, of which two will indicate
the extent to which this objective has been met in a cost effective and participatory fashion. In addition,
each sub-component will be evaluated according to three specific indicators relating to the particular
program. For the Shelter program these three specific indicators are: shelter; vulnerable groups
benefiting; and technology adoption (tiles). These indicators measure impact, coverage and sustainability.
The second Project objective of capability building would be measured by two general indicators across
all components, with a third relating specifically to the training of TASIF staff. Thus each sub-
component will be evaluated on ten indicators, of which seven are common to all sub-components of the
Project, and three are specific to each sub-component.  These indicators, and the specific measures and
instruments to compile them, would be refined in a pilot baseline exercise.
31.   Monitoring and evaluation activities have already been a prominent feature of the existing NGO
Shelter program, and both the findings and systems used will be built upon in the scaled-up program.
The Project would closely monitor the scaled-up program. Specifically, SCF-US would be asked to
report to the TASIF on a quarterly basis on the following: (i) summary of achievements: number of
beneficiaries reached (direct and indirect) versus goal; cost per beneficiary (total NGO program cost
divided by number of beneficiaries); labor content as a percentage of the NGO program budget; number



- 50 -
of person-days of employment generated; and operating costs as a percentage of the NGO program
budget; (ii) obstacles and issues to be overcome and resolved; (iii) targeting; (iv) community participation;
(v) financial reporting; and, (vi) sustainability. Each of the NGO programs would also have a monitoring
schedule based on its specific characteristics (see paras. 28-30). In addition to this the SCF-US will
report to TASIF on achieved targets in the Shelter program in order to trigger release of payments by
TASIF to SCF-US. After receiving an Advance of 10% the second third ad fourth payments will be
released based on the following achieved outputs: second payment of 40% when three demonstration
houses have been completed and five hundred houses have been completed; third payment of 40% when
an additional 600 house have been completed; and the last payment of 10% when the remaining 900
houses have been completed
ASSUMPTIONS AND RISKS
32.   Major assumptions and risks include ensuring transparency and appropriate beneficiary selection,
ensuring the timely supply and monitoring the flow of a large volume of goods, ensuring quality and
performance of tile manufacture, and ensuring food quality and quantity. Assurance of food quality and
quantity available for FFW is required. In case of delays in delivery, or of food stocks approaching
their expiry date, SCF-US would negotiate an exchange of stocks with WFP or any other agency dealing
with commodity delivery in Tajikistan. Details of food quality control are given in Technical Note 3.
33.   Food For Work activities historically run the risk of distorting food market prices and depressing
local production. However, given the anticipated shortfall locally and nationally over the next two years,
this danger appears minimal. Regardless of such a forecast, SCF-US monitors local market prices of
food regularly, and will propose appropriate action should the FFW activities proposed here at any time
appear to be an inappropriate mechanism.



- 51 -
34.   The program assumes that the dissemination of tiles technology will be successful. This requires
not only the procurement of materials, but the training of local artisans in roof construction, tiling, quality
control and repair. This risk is justified by the need to depart from the use of asbestos sheet roofing, and
will be mitigated by continued close contact and collaboration between SCF and the contractor
throughout the duration of the project.
CONDITIONALITY
35.   The program funding is conditional to the stipulations set out and agreed upon in the legal
agreement between TASIF and SCF-US.
Technical Note 1: Material Requirement Calculation
Roofing Kit:
In order to complete 2,000 houses Save the Children-US will procure 100,000 pieces of planks, 60,000
pieces of cross beams, 2,900,000 pieces of roofing tiles, and 4,000 kg each of binding wire and nails.
Note:
Planks:      140mm*50mm*6000mm   =        0.042 CBM
Cross beams:   50mm*40mm*6000mm    =      0.012 CBM
Planks:      50 pcs. * 0.042       =      2.1 CBM
Cross Beams    30 pcs. * 0.012     =      0.36 CBM
TOTAL per house                    =      2.46 CBM
One standard house is 72 sq. m., with a roofing area estimated to be 100 sq. m. One house will receive
2.46 (for budgeting purpose rounded off to 2.5) cu m. of timber, 1500 tiles, 2 kg wire and 2 kg nails.



- 52 -
Material Requirement Schedule
Phase I         Phase II        Phase III        TOTAL
(0-8 mths)      (8-18 months    (18-30 months)
# of houses     200             1,000            800             2,000
# of planks     10,000          50,000           40,000          100,000
$ for planks    128,400         642,000          513,600         $1,284,000
# of beams      6,000           30,000           24,000          60,000
$ for beams     21,600          108,000          86,400          $216,000
# of tiles      300,000         1,500,000        1,200,000       3,000,000
$ for tiles     84,000          420,000          336,000         $840,000
Kg. of wire     400             2,000            1600            4,000
$ for wire      800             2,400            3,200           $8,000
Kg. of nails    400             2,000            1,600           4,000
$ for nails     1,000           5,000            4,000           10,000
Total $ needed    $235,800      $1,179,000       $943,200        $2,358,000



- 53 -
Technical Note 2: Food Requirement Calculation
36.    There will be labor compensation of the reconstruction work through food (Food for Work). In
order to complete the target of 2,000 houses, 180 MT of wheat flour, 180 MT of pinto beans and 60 MT
of vegetable oil will be required. SCF-US still has approximately 5,000 MT of USDA 1995 food
available, and is expecting an additional 6,000 MT under their USDA 1996 grant. The ration to be
distributed for Food for Work program beneficiaries will be wheat flour, pinto beans and vegetable oil.
It should be noted that the individual commodities may change, depending upon actual receipt from
USDA. The ration scale will be adjusted accordingly.
Food       Qt. Ihouse      Yr. 1           Yr. 2         Total Qt.       Total Value
(MT)     Qt.: 800 houses  Qt.: 1200 houses  Required (MT)  of Food ($)
Wheat Flour    0.09        72              108             180             97,200
Pinto Beans    0.0         72             108              180             93,600
Vegetable Oil    0         24             36               6           0  70,800
Total          0.21         168           252              420             261,600
Note: The value of the food commodities is calculated on average July 1996 market prices for the commodities: Wheat flour -
$ 0.54; Pinto beans - $ 0.52; and Vegetable oil - $1.18
The extent of destruction of houses ranges from 20% to 100%. Food calculation is based on an average
destruction rate of 75 % per house. Depending upon the quantity of different food commodity received,
necessary adjustments will made for the individual commodities to be distributed per house.
Technical Note 3: Food Quality Assurance
37.    The following steps are taken to ensure the food quality:
(a) On a semi-annual basis, commodity samples are taken by the doctor in the district hospital, who
will then analyze the food quality and certify whether the food is fit for human consumption..
(b) In the case of damaged bags, a similar testing is performed before the reconstitution is done.
(c) Warehousing facilities are fumigated with Bromistic methyl (45 gm/cum.) every six months.
After every fumigation, the fumigation company is responsible for performing the analysis of
commodity samples and providing a certificate concerning its fitness for human consumption.
It should be noted that food is generally not kept more than six months. This implies that there
will be only one fumigation required per tranche.
(d) In the event that food has been stored more than six months, SCF-US collaborates with other
humanitarian agencies who are in need of food for immediate distribution. SCF-US will loan the
needed quantity of commodities, and same quantity will be repaid to SCF-US once the other
agency's fresh stock comes.
(e) Food certified as unfit for human consumption is given to animal, fish or poultry farms.



- 54 -
ANNEX C
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
MICRO-CREDIT PROGRAM (SAVE THE CHILDREN-US)
SUMMARY
1.    The proposed program will focus on women in war-affected regions of Tajikistan to achieve in
two years the following specific objectives: (a) provide access to credit and mobilize savings for 3, 750
women in the Bokhtar, Vaksh, Vose, Kurgan-Tube and Kolkhozabad districts of Khatlon Region; (b)
generate additional income for 3750 people in the Bokhtar, Vaksh, Vose, Kurgan Tube and Kolkhozabad
districts of Khatlon Region; (c) positively impact approximately 18,750 children and other dependents
of the original 3750 borrowers; (d) develop the Group Guaranteed Loans and Savings (GGLS) program
into an independent local NGO or financial services institution that can operate independently within four
years a micro finance program that sustains access capital for poor women. The program is currently
operating in Kurgan-Tube, Bokhtar, Vaksh and Kolkhozabad districts of Western Khatlon. The proposed
expanded GGLS program will include Vose District. The existing program has been operating for over
one year. The expanded program will be for a period of two years and will begin in April 1997 and
continue until April 1999. It will be implemented by Save the Children-US.
OBJECTIVES
2.    Over 800,000 people were displaced from the war in 1992-93. The homes of more than 25,000
families were destroyed and those who fled lost all or most of their productive and household assets. The
800,000 displaced, particularly the 25,000 families who lost their homes, constitute the largest single
vulnerable group in Tajikistan today. In addition areas like Khulyab face extreme lack of economic
opportunities. Particularly poorer section of the community are facing extreme hardship for their
livelihood. It is crucial that they have the opportunity to reestablish their productivity.
3.    The social, political and economic upheavals of the last few years have precipitated the final
disintegration of an already dysfunctional institutional infrastructure. At present the Government of
Tajikistan does not have comprehensive policies for civic groups or rural banking institutions, restricting
the development of both.  The presence of arbitrary and obstructive tax policies further restrict
opportunities for people to create indigenous structures that would help protect and provide for
themselves. Government is not able to provide access or education to encourage alternative sources for
opportunities like small business development. Formal banks are not reliable and do not provide access
to credit for poor women. The lack of collateral among poor women, returnee refugees and internally
displaced people (IDPs) forces would-be entrepreneurs to enter high risk relationships for credit with
black market lenders. Poor women, returnee refugees and IDPs have no institutional structure other than
their equally depressed families and friends to assist on their livelihood. Most people receive little or no
cash for the work they perform for the collective farms and businesses. Alternative sources of income
and services are necessary for people to provide for their basic needs.



- 55 -
4.    The population now has a disproportionate gender and age composition. Many men were killed
in the war leaving behind women, children and the elderly. Historically in Tajikistan men have the
greater access to jobs for cash. However, the present circumstances create a great demand for capital
among women. Without access to credit and an active earning member in the family, life for the
remaining members has been very difficult. Even though women want to work to earn a living, they are
limited in their income generating activities due to a dearth of skills. The expanded program will provide
the essential capital for this otherwise alienated population through its proposed GGLS and provide
technical support so that women can improve and broaden their skills.
The specific objectives of the expanded program are the following:
(a) Sustainable reduction of poverty through the provision of access to credit and mobilization of
savings for 3,750 women in the Bokhtar, Vaksh, Vole, Kurgan-Tube and Kolkhozabad districts
of Khatlon Region.
(b) Generation of additional income for 3,750 people in the Bokhtar, Vaksh, Vose, Kurgan Tube and
Kolkhozabad Districts of Khatlon Region.
(c) Positive impact on approximately 18,750 children and other dependents of the original 3,750
borrowers.
(d) Development of the GGLS program into an independent local NGO or financial services
institution that can operate independently within four years a micro finance program that sustains
access capital for poor women.
(e) Development of common ground and bringing people together for their mutual benefit.
STRATEGY AND TARGETING
5.    The current strategy focuses on construction brigades and women's committees. Members in
brigades have the experience of working together which is considered to be a good way to initiate GGLS
groups. Initially, based on group interest and SCF-US's experience with a number of these brigades in
their present GGLS program, additional brigade members will be selected to participate in the GGLS
activities. If there is not an adequate number of women from the house building brigades in the same
localities to make a GGLS group, women who have not participated in the reconstruction may participate
in the savings and credit program. In order to be a member of the group the following criteria will be
used:
(a) Female (however, GGLS will experiment with a few male or mixed groups);
(b) From a poor family;
(c) Living permanently in the community;
(d) Only one member from a family is permitted and;



- 56 -
(e) Must possess some skills or experience relevant to proposed business activity.
6.     As a pilot test a few men's groups will also be formed and progress will be assessed based on
the achievement of the pilot test group expansion strategy will be determined. The number of groups in
the expanded program is shown below:
District        Qt.1      Qt.2     Qt.3     Qt.4     Qt. 5    Qt.6      Qt.7     Qt.8     Total
Vaksh           5         5        5        5        10       10        5        5        50
Kolkhozabad     5         5        5        5        5        5         10       10       50
Bokhtar         5        5         5        5        5        5         10       10       50
Kurgan Tube     5         5        5        5        5        5         10       10       50
Vose                               10       10       5        5         10       10       50
Total           20       20        30       30       30       30       45        45       250
ACTIVITIES
7.     The average group size will be fifteen. All GGLS groups will organize themselves for a series
of meetings with SCF -US- staff to ensure that all the members of the groups are clear about their
responsibilities and expectations that they have of SCF (US). In these initial meetings the groups will
agree and commit to a written set of GGLS bylaws for the group including leadership selection. These
bylaws will include policies and procedures to ensure the long term sustainability and transparent
accountability of the groups loans funds.
8.     In order to build up capacity, the different training programs will be done at two different levels:
for national staff and for local institutions.
(a) Training sessions for national staff will focus on: GGLS theory; sustainability and how to achieve
it; how to present GGLS in the community; the role of the promoter; group formation and
bylaws; training in group dynamics; internal (group) savings and external accounts; first and
subsequent loan cycles; increasing loan amounts with each cycle; GGLS accounting, program and
financial reporting.
(b) For the local institutions, training will be given to those interested in leading an apex NGO. This
training will be based on a training needs assessment, and is likely to cover topics such as
leadership, management, accounting, recording keeping, credit management, market survey, and
new business creation. . The apex NGO will work as a micro credit institution and will give all
technical assistance required by the groups within five years of the start date of proposed
activities.
9.     The existing NGO capacity building project (which is a collaborative project of SCF-US and the
Counterpart Consortium) will assist project staff in designing different training programs. Through this
project, several of the SCF-US staff will be trained in Institutional Capacity Building. They, in turn, will
train other staff or members of micro-credit institutions. As needed, interested borrowers and members
of local NGOs will also be admitted to the training program conducted by the NGO Capacity Building



- 57 -
Training team. Training will be offered at the SCF-US's two training centers in Kurgan-Tube and
Dushanbe.
IMPLEMENTATION
10.   Accessibility to Credit and Savings. SCF-US will allocate to each group loan money from its
revolving fund budget. The group will approve its members' loans on the basis of the feasibility of the
economic activities proposed by the applicant, and the group's judgement of the applicant's ability to
implement the proposed activities and repay the loan. As there is no collateral in the group lending
program, therefore the group will guarantee repayment if the borrower in its group defaults. If a group
does not repay the loan when it is due that group's access to the loan money will be cut off or be
suspended until and unless due repayment is made. Groups that perform well will receive more loan
fund allocations from the GGLS program. As the group gains experience and performs well, the amount
of subsequent individual loans will increase as individuals develop their entrepreneurial capacity.
11.   Savings will be an important component of the program. Saving serves as an indicator of profit
and commitment. The GGLS program will require clients to save on a weekly basis, which will total
three percent of the loan in a cycle. However, program participants will be encouraged to save more.
Group savings perform many functions, including servicing as a guarantee for defaults and being available
for future capital expansion. Group participants will be encouraged to open individual or group saving
accounts once the banking facilities will be available in the working area.
Groups                                    100                          250
Number Groups/Promoter                     12                          15
Number Promoters/Supervisors               5                            5
Total Promoters                            8                            17
Total Supervisors                          2                            3
Number of Groups/Supervisor                60                          75
Loan Terms (month)                         3                            3
Payments per loan                          6                            6
Annual Interest Rate                       60                          48%
12.   All 3,750 members will get loans in four three-month cycles. The loanee must repay the
previous cycle before getting the next. Upon the formation of the group, members will sign a contract
as a group with SCF -US or with the partner institution (when formed) about holding regular bi-weekly
group meetings, making regular repayments and sharing a commitment to help each other in the group
in order to fulfill program rules. Upon acquiring membership every member will be issued a membership
card. Loan disbursements as well as repayments will be done in Tajik Rubles. For each cycle a
repayment schedule of six bi-weekly installments will be followed. Until an apex NGO is formed, SCF-
US project staff will handle cash transactions and deposit individual group loan repayments in an SCF-US
safe in the SCF-US office. For depositing large amounts of cash, commercial banking facilities will be
used. In the existing pilot program the first cycle started with TR 1,200 ($20) which increased to TR
5,000 ($30) in the second, TR 12,000 ($40) in the third, and TR 15,000 ($55) in the fourth cycle. In



- 58 -
the case of urban groups TR 6,000, 12,000, 15,000, and 18,000 ($30, $40, $55, and $65 respectively)
were disbursed in 1-4 cycles respectively.
13.    At the close of the first year of the project 3,450 loans will be disbursed to 1,500 members.
Disbursed loans will be protected by 100 groups, averaging 15 members per group. In each of the first
and second quarters of the first year, 20 groups will enter the first loan cycle. In subsequent quarters
of the first year, 20 groups will enter the first loan cycle. In subsequent quarters of the first year, 30
groups will enter the first loan cycle. Similarly in the second year, 30 groups in each of the first and
second quarters and 45 groups each in the last two quarters, will enter the first cycle of the loan. Upon
the successful completion of a loan cycle, at the end of each quarter, groups will enter a new loan cycle
and will remain constant once they reach the fourth cycle. The Implementation Plan matrices below shows
the number of groups in each loan cycle in each quarter and their advancement into the next loan cycle;
the loan portfolio per quarter; loans repayments per quarter with 2% loan loss; and savings generated
from he forced savings of 3 percentage points of the 13% interest rate charged on loans per repayment
installment.
Implementation Plan for Number of Groups to be Formed per Quarter 1997-1999
Loan Cycle      Ql Apr-   Q2 July-   Q3 Oct-   Q4 Jan-    Ql Apr-   Q2 July-   Q3 Oct-    Q4 Jan-
June '97    Sept '97    Dec '97    Mar '98    June '98    Sept '98    Dec '98    Mar 99
Cycle I $40     20         20         30         30         30         30         45         45
Cycle 2 $60                20         20         30         30         30         30         45
Cycle 3 $80                           20         20         30         30         30         30
Cycle 4 $100                                     20         40         70         100        130
Total Groups    20         40         70         100        130        160         205        250
per Quarter
Implementation Plan for Loan Portfolio in $/Quarter
Loan Cycle      QlApr-    Q2 July-   Q3 Oct-   Q4 Jan-    Ql Apr-   Q2 July-   Q3 Oct-    Q4 Jan-
June '97    Sept '97    Dec '97    Mar '98    June '98    Sept '98    Dec '98    Mar 99
Cycle I $40     12,000     12,000     18,000     18,000     18,000     18,000     27,000     27,000
Cycle 2 $60     0          18,000     18,000     27,000     27,000     27,000     27,000     40,500
Cycle 3 $80     0          0          24,000     24,000     36,000     36,000     36,000     36,000
Cycle 4 $100    0          0          0          30,000     60,000     105,000    150,000    195,000
Total/Quarter    12,000    30,000     60,000     99,000     141,000    186,000    240,000    298,500



- 59 -
lmplementation Plan for Total Funds ($) Received at end of each Quarter (less 2% loan loss)
Loan Cycle     Ql Apr-      Q2 July-    Q3 Oct-Dec  Q4 Jan-       Ql Apr-    Q2 July-      Q3 Oct-      Q4 Jan-
June '97    Sept '97    '97          Mar '98      June '98     Sept '98    Dec '98      Mar '99
Cycle 1 $40    -12597                  ,
Cycle 2 $ 60   0
Cycle 3 $ 80   0
Cycle 4 $100    0
Total          (12,597)     (31,492)    (62,984)     (103,923)    (148,012)    (195,250)    (251,936)    (313,345
Groups/Quarter
Implementation Plan for Savings Generated (3 percentage points from 13% interest)
Loan Cycle     Q1         Q2         Q3        Q4         Q1         Q2         Q3         Q4
Cycle 1 $40    597        597        895       895        895        895        1,343      1,343
Cycle 2 $ 60   0          895        895        1,343     1,343      1,343      1,343     2,014
Cycle 3 $ 80   0          0          1,194      1,194     1,790      1,790      1,790      1,790
Cycle 4 $100    0         0          0          1,492     2,894      5,222      7,460     9,698
Total          597        1,492      2,984     4,923      7,012      9,250      11,936     14,845
Groups/Quarterl
Tota             7         49        2,98
MANAGEMENT
14.    The GGLS program will be supervised by a Program Advisor Manager (expatriate consultant).
He or she will be responsible for assisting with the design, implementation, supervision and overall
management of the GGLS program and will train the local staff to take over his or her duties after two
years. The program manager will be responsible for the GGLS unit office in Kurgan Tube and for
overall management of the program operations. The Program Manager will supervise the assistant
managers, who will be in charge of record keeping and financial management. They will be responsible
for the satellite offices in Kurgan Tube and Vose, and for the program operations through these offices.
A Monitoring and Training Officer will be responsible for the design and installation of the monitoring
system, and for training the staff of partner institutions to monitor the credit program. Group promoters
(who are the front-line of the GGLS program) are in charge of group formation, disbursing and collection
of loans, and savings mobilization, and they are supervised by unit supervisors, who are responsible for
record keeping in individual passbooks and for supervising the collection and disbursement activities.
The groups are organized with 15 to 20 members each, with a chairperson, a vice chairperson and a
secretary. Support staff (accountants, secretary, and drivers) will assist with the regular functioning of
the credit operation and management of the institution. In addition, GGLS staff will have the benefit of
support from the SCF/US Field Office Director, Assistant Director, and Assistant Field Office Director
for Finance and Administration.



- 60 -
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
15.   The project will have no adverse impacts on the environment. The maximum size of the loan is
100 and ill be used mainly for trading activities.
SUSTAINABILITY
16.   The Micro Credit Group Guarantee Loans and Savings program aims to develop the existing
program into a sustainable local NGO or financial services institution that can operate independently
within four years and can sustain the access to capital for poor women. Within two years from the start
date of this upscaled project a core group of borrowers and GGLS staff will begin participating in SC
sponsored training and will produce an agenda for the development of a local apex institution that can
fully operate a micro credit program within four years. Various operating responsibilities related to the
GGLS program will be handed over to the clients groups through the four year period as their capacity
dictates. In the fourth year of this program groups receiving credit and savings services will be managed
and monitored by this apex NGO. Furthermore, in the fourth year of this program the apex NGO will
be provided a one time grant to run the credit and savings program and establish links to other
organizations so that its members can access more resources. The GGLS program will also be linked,
through the monitoring and evaluation process, to the TASIF according to the operational manual
guidelines. This will enable a strengthening of institutional replicability and sustainability. To address
the issue of financial sustainability, savings will be an important component of the project. Savings
serves as an indicator of profit and commitment as well as sustainability. The GGLS program will
require clients to save on a weekly basis which will total 3% of the loan in a cycle. Group savings
perform many functions, including serving as a guarantee for defaults and being available for future
capital expansion. Group members will be encouraged to open individual or group savings accounts once
the banking facilities are available in the area. All 3750 group members will get loans in 3 month cycles.
At the close of the first year of the project 3450 loans will be disbursed to 1500 members. Disbursed
loans will be protected by 100 groups, averaging 15 members per group. In the first and second quarter
of the first year 20 groups each will enter the first loan cycle. Similarly in the second year 30 groups
each will enter the first loan cycle. Similarly, in the second year 30 groups each in first and second
quarters and 45 groups each in last two quarters will join the first cycle of loan. Upon the successful
completion of a loan cycle in the end of each quarter groups will enter a new loan cycle and will remain
constant once they reach the fourth cycle. Repayments of loan with interest from the first year will be
revolved for continued funding in subsequent years. the proposed loan funding will allow all groups to
reach the forth loan cycle and continue receiving loans indefinitely provided additional funding is secured
to pay portion of the program costs. SCF estimates the program will be 6 % operationally self sustainable
a the end of the first year and 27%, 72% and 144% at the end of the second, third and fourth years
respectively with standard interest charge of 10% to which 3% will be added to make the total service
charge 13%. However the 3% will be deposited in groups names and will remain as the savings for the
group. Groups will have full authority in the utilization of the savings fund.



- 61 -
LINKS WITH THE TASIF
17.   The GGLS program will, as stipulated in the TASIF operational manual guidelines be monitored
and evaluated by the TASIF through an integrated monitoring and evaluation for the entire PPAP program
(see Annex L). The GGLS program will provide TASIF with regular monthly, quarterly, six monthly
and annual reports.
BUDGET
Personnel                               $420,418
Operations                               $205470
Loan Fund                              $282, 402
ICR                                     $136,243
Total                           $1,044534



- 62 -
MONITORING AND REPORTING
18. Bi weekly Monitoring will include:
(a) Group information: Group namne; group cycle; meeting number; treasurer's name and signature;
number of children and other family members reported by group; names of group members;
number of children and other family members reported by each group member; business activity
of each group member; promoters'name and signature; date prepared and submitted; reviewed
and signed by promoter's supervisor; date reviewed and signed by promoter's supervisor;
(b) Attendance:  Number of members in the group this cycle; number of members attending this
meeting; percentage of attendance this meeting;
(c) Funds coming in this meeting: Total principal collected this meeting; total interest collected this
meeting;
(d) Funds going out this meeting: Loans disbursed this meeting;
(e) Amounts to date: Amount overdue; amount outstanding; amount collected by promoter;
(f) Group Cycle Monitoring will include: Promoters name; signature; date prepared and submitted;
reviewed and signed by promoters supervisor; date reviewed and signed by promoter's
supervisor;
(g) Attendance: Number of projected attenders if 100% attendance per month and cycle; number of
attenders per month and cycle; group % of attendance per month and cycle;
(h) Portfolio Statistics: Number of loans disbursed to group members this cycle; amount disbursed
to group members this cycle; average size of disbursement this cycle; average size of
disbursement this cycle; amount projected to be collected per bi weekly meeting; amount
projected to be collected per cycle; amount collected per biweekly meeting; amount collected this
cycle; amount over due this cycle;
(i) Overall Self Sufficiency: Overall operating expenses interest and fees collected each biweekly
meeting; interest and fees collected each cycle; self sustainability % for each cycle (amount
collected divided by the sum of operating expenses, inflation and loss due to defaulters);
(j) Evaluation of group and inter-group behavior: Group ability to organize and prepare for
initiation of loans and manage loans for income'generating activities; the quality and quantity of
contact of the group and its members to other groups; the ability of women's committees or other
loan partners to support the groups and facilitate inter group contact; the number of participants
involved in productive activities in the groups; the impact of the project on the health, food
security and development of children of the participants.
19.   GGLS will also conduct an institutional assessment; a financial assessment and a client assessment
for which it will monitor the following indicators:



- 63 -
Institutional Assessment.
Groups:
Attendance level at group meetings
Do people like meeting in groups? If yes, why? If no, why?
Number of group meetings held per group
Content of meetings
As a result of the group, is there an increase in bargaining power with other local institutions or
individuals?
Savings and loan indicators will serve as proxies
What content in Training of groups
How often are these messages in training reinforced for groups
Staff:
What content of training of staff
How often are staff trained
How often are staff meetings held
How often has the future of GGLS as a independent structure been discussed
How much progress has been made in creating the structure, what steps have been taken
Tracking of staff promotion upwards
Financial Assessment
Repayment Rate
Recovery Rate
Full Repayment Number of loans
Full Repayment Amount
Loans Outstanding
Total number of borrowers
Total Disbursements
Total Repayments
Financial Sustainability Ratios
Return on Performing Assets
Financial Cost Ratio
Operating Cost Ratio
Operating Self Sufficiency Ratio
Cost Per Loan Made
Number of Active Borrower Per Credit Officer
Portfolio per credit officer



- 64 -
Client assessments (will be based on a survey of a sample group of clients, composed of one client
from each group):
At the six month evaluation the survey would be of 40 clients, one picked from each of the 40
groups. A total of 40 clients to be surveyed.
At the one year evaluation the survey would be of the 40 clients and in addition 60 from each one
of the 60 groups formed. A total of 100 clients to be surveyed.
At the one and a half year evaluation the survey would be of the 100 clients and in addition 60
clients from each of the 60 new groups formed. A total of 160 clients to be surveyed.
At the two year evaluation the survey would be of the 160 clients and in addition 90 clients from
each of the 90 new groups formed. A total of 250 clients will be surveyed.
The survey would ask the following questions.
What is the size of the loan borrowed?
What would the loan be used for?
How much revenue is earned from the loan?
Is the loan ever used for purpose other then business activity? If so, for what? nd how often has
this happened?
What size of loan would be best to meet client's needs and borrowing capacity (i.e. ability to
repay)?
How much savings?
Has client withdrawn savings? If yes, then for what use?
INTEGRATED EVALUATION
20.   An independent integrated evaluation at mid-term and project completion would be contracted by
TASIF to be undertaken by a consultant leading a multi-disciplinary team of local and international
experts. Implementing INGOs including SCF-US would each nominate a team member, but the team as
a whole would evaluate all aspects of both components of the project including the SCF-US GGLS
program. The team would visit project sites, review reports and indicator measurements in the light of
its own observations and investigations, and seek to establish lessons to be learned both at mid-term and
for Project follow-up. It would report both to TASIF and to the Bank. Further details are in Annex L.
21.   Key objective indicators will be measured and monitored by the Project in order to track, in a
consistent and comparable fashion, the essentials of performance against objectives. The key objective
indicators are summarized in Table 1 of Annex L. The first Project objective of impact on the incomes
of the poor will be measured across all sub-components by five key indicators, of which two will indicate
the extent to which this objective has been met in a cost effective and participatory fashion. In addition,
each sub-component will be evaluated according to three specific indicators relating to the particular
program. For the GGLS program these three specific indicators are: active portfolio; household incomes;
and productive enterprises. These indicators measure impact, coverage and sustainability. The second
Project objective of capability building would be measured by two general indicators across all
components, with a third relating specifically to the training of TASIF staff. Thus each sub-component
will be evaluated on ten indicators, of which seven are common to all sub-components of the Project, and
three are specific to each sub-component.  These indicators, and the specific measures and instruments



- 65 -
to compile them, would be refined in a pilot baseline exercise.
22. Monitoring and evaluation activities have already been a prominent feature of the existing GGLS
program, and both the findings and systems used will be built upon in the scaled-up program. The Project
would closely monitor the scaled-up program. Specifically, SCF-US would be asked to report to the
TASIF on a quarterly basis on the following: (i) summary of achievements: number of beneficiaries
reached (direct and indirect) versus goal; cost per beneficiary (total NGO program cost divided by
number of beneficiaries); labor content as a percentage of the NGO program budget; number of person-
days of employment generated; and operating costs as a percentage of the NGO program budget; (ii)
obstacles and issues to be overcome and resolved; (iii) targeting; (iv) community participation; (v)
financial reporting; and, (vi) sustainability. Each of the NGO programs would also have a monitoring
schedule based on its specific characteristics (see paras. 18-19). In addition to this the SCF-US will
report to TASIF on achieved targets in the GGLS program in order to trigger release of payments by
TASIF to SCF-US (see para 25).
ASSUMPTIONS AND RISKS
23.   Assumptions are that the security situation will remain stable and that the economic crisis will
not worsen which will allow clients to continue to repay and borrow loans on time and steadily add to
their savings accounts. The rate of inflation it is assumed will continue to decrease or stabilize. Along
with the risk of defaults due to a deterioration in the social and economic conditions, there is the existing
risk of harassment of GGLS's clients by militia who charge exorbitant rates of illegal fees from market
vendors and often confiscate their goods. Added to this risk of theft from clients is the risk of theft from
GGLS staff or from the GGLS office of loans and savings funds. Banking facilities in the program area
are non-existent therefore cash amounts need to be hand carried to and from Dushanbe to Kurgan Tube
and then to and from clients to GGLS offices.
24.   The program funding is conditional to the stipulations set out and agreed upon in the legal
agreement between TASIF and SCF (US). Key steps which need to be taken prior to contract signing
have been agreed upon with SCF US for the GGLS program. Of those listed below key steps such as
introduction of savings concept to all existing groups, the implementation of savings with existing groups
and the revision of the application form to include socio economic baseline data on clients has been
initiated as of September 1996. The conditions for signing the contract are as follows:
(i)  Initiation of recruitment process of Project Advisor, Project Manager, Assistant Project
Manager, eight group promoters, two supervisors and one monitoring and training officer by
contract signing date.
(ii) Revision of Application form to include key social-economic baseline information on group
members.
(iii) Introduction of savings concept to existing groups and Implementing savings with e x i s t i n g
groups.



- 66 -
25.   Funding for the program will be released in four payments by TASIF equaling to 10%, 40%,
40% and 10%. The first 10% will be an advance, the following payments will be based on achieved
outputs. The schedule for achieved outputs and release of payments from TASIF to SCF-US are as
follows: An advance Payment of 10% of total proposed budget will be made upon Credit effectiveness.
Second Payment of 40% when:
80 groups are formed
Upto $70,000 in loans have been disbursed to 80 groups
Upto $63,000 loans have been repaid or total funds received
Savings upto $4000 collected for 80 groups
Third Payment of 40% when:
70 additional groups are formned
$170,000 in loans disbursed to 150 groups
$146,000 total funds received from 150 groups
Savings upto $10,000 collected for 150 groups
Training workshops for GGLS staff on sustainability
Training workshops for GGLS staff on institution creation
Fourth Payment of 10% when:
100 additional groups formed
$298,402 in loans disbursed to 250 groups
$241,902 total funds received from 250 groups
Savings upto $16,000 collected from 250 groups
Training workshops for GGLS staff on New Business Creation



- 67 -
ANNEX D
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
PROGRAM OF SUPPORT TO FEMALE-HEADED HOUSEHOLDS
(SAVE THE CHILDREN UK)
SUMMARY
1.    The proposed program will focus on female-headed households in Western Tajikistan (Vaksh,
Aini, Panjkent, Dushanbe and Shaartuz Districts). It will assist 3,700 of the most vulnerable households,
and build the capacity of up to 16 local organizations by providing practical experience in effective
approaches to poverty alleviation. The program will have two components: (1) Support to Vulnerable
Households in Khatlon Province, which will reach 2,100 female-headed households with agricultural
inputs and social services; and (2) Capacity Building for Poverty Alleviation, which will strengthen 16
local government and non governmental organizations and reach up to 1,600 female-headed households
with appropriate community-centered poverty alleviation activities.
OBJECTIVES
2.    Levels of household poverty are high and increasing through out Tajikistan, and the most
vulnerable groups are suffering the direct consequences in ill health, poor nutrition, inadequate housing
and lost opportunities for education. Household incomes have fallen as a result of dramatically reduced
opportunities for employment and access to resources for self employment is very limited. Compounding
the problem of household poverty is the collapse of the basic health and education services, due to the
central government's inability to finance them adequately. Access to health care for the poorest has been
severely curtailed by the rising cost of treatment as well as supply shortages. Local response to this
situation is hampered by the lack of experience and capacity within both local government and NGOs to
understand and respond to the needs of vulnerable households. This is due in part to a inadequate
knowledge and skills concerning practical approaches to poverty alleviation among staff of local
government and NGOs.
3.    In Khatlon Province, the Districts of Vaksh and Bokhtar, where SCF (UK) has been working
since 1994, were among those most seriously affected by the civil war. There are a large number of
vulnerable households - many of which are female headed and thus face considerable social as well as
economic obstacles. SCF's experience in the area indicates the importance of addressing all these issues,
including in particular the decline in educational and child care services, and the need for access to other
social services.
4.    The objectives of the project are ensure that a total of 3,700 most vulnerable households gain
access agriculture assets and social services such as day-care centers and schools, and to build local
capacity of 16 local organizations to deliver such services. The project consists of two main components:



- 68 -
Component 1: Support to Vulnerable Households in Khatlon Province
5.    This component builds on the experience of SCF (UK) in working with female-headed households
in Bokhtar/Vaksh districts, and has the following objectives:
*  to increase levels of household income for 2,100 vulnerable households by July 1999,
through the provision of agricultural assets such as livestock, seeds and tools as well as
technical advice;
*  to strengthen local capacity to support day-care centers and schools serving 30 villages, by
establishing community based mechanisms for the management of grants and revolving funds
generated by agriculture inputs;
*  to promote access to available services and resources through the dissemination of
information and advice, group formation, and legal support to vulnerable h households
indirectly to the population of 30 villages.
Component 2: Capacity Building for Poverty Alleviation
6.    In order to start extending poverty alleviation activities beyond Khatlon province, and to test the
applicability of project approaches in other circumstances the aim of this component is:
C to enable up to 1600 vulnerable households in four areas of the country to achieve higher
levels of self reliance and greater access to income support;
* to improve the capacity of selected local organizations (government and non-government) to
identify and support appropriate community centered poverty alleviation activities.
STRATEGY AND TRAINING
7.    The program will provide productive assets to individual female-headed households, in order to
improve household food security and, where possible, generate a family income through the sale of
produce. SCF's experience indicates that this approach can be successful, provided that support
appropriate and based upon adequate consultation with beneficiaries about the scale of assistance and the
nature of assets to be provided. The introduction of a revolving fund element makes such participation
even more important.
8.    It has also become apparent that to achieve sustained impact across the full range of problems
faced by vulnerable households, poverty alleviation activities must also address social and other non-
economic obstacles, and that this requires support to organization at the community level over a period
of years rather then months. Community level organization is the major challenge in introducing this
approach in other areas.
9.    While continuing to ensure the appropriateness of material inputs distributed to individual
households, SCF (UK) will seek ways to improve the overall quality of the productive assets provided.
In rural areas this will include research into the feasibility of introducing improved wheat and potato seed



- 69 -
(particularly imported varieties). Different approaches will be developed in urban districts covered under
the local capacity building component.
10.   Field staff will play a critical role in all project activities, through informing vulnerable families
about their rights as well as about existing services and assistance programs. For example, experience
has shown that explaining the land reform process and the mechanisms for applying for land, as well as
following up on households requests for land with local and national authorities, can result in significant
benefits.
ACTIVITIES
Component 1: Support to Vulnerable households in Khatlon Province:
11.   In Vaksh District, SCF(UK) will identify 30 villages with a high proportion of vulnerable
(particularly FHH) households. These villages will be located around local schools and day-care centers.
Based on the level of productive assets and social conditions of each household SCF (UK) will classify
vulnerable families according to criteria which have been developed for the ongoing project.
12.   By the end of July 1997, two lists of FHHs will be identified by SCF field workers. The initial
700 FHH will form groups of 20 to 30 households. Each household will receive productive assets
according to their level of need up to a maximum equivalent to $150 per household. All households will
receive inputs on condition that they undertake to repay the equivalent value in cash or kind. The
repayment rate will be set at between 100 and 120 percent over a period to be determined by the SCF
(UK) depending on local conditions.
13.   Most of the funds repaid will be used to provide similar assistance to the second list of 700
FHHs, and as these receive their material inputs, a third group of up to 700 vulnerable households (some
of which may not be female headed) will be identified to receive assistance once further funds are
available.
14.   Any balance of repaid funds will be provided to local schools or day-care centers. These funds
will be managed by a committee including representatives of vulnerable households, other parents, pupils,
teachers and local authorities. The committees will be supported by an SCF (UK) field worker.
15.   Support to schools and day-care centers will also include one-off grants (possibly in the form of
food for work for staff) as well as assistance in the formation of community management boards and in
the continuing management of income from he local revolving funds.
16.   An integral part of all this work will be the dissemination of information. Field workers will
promote group formation, provide advice and legal support, and help to mediate with local authorities
and service providers.
Component 2: Capacity building for Poverty Alleviation
17.   This component will develop practical skills among staff of local government and non-government
organizations. It is expected that these organizations will work at the community level to assist vulnerable
families in the identification of pilot projects which focus on income generation and improved access to
essential services.



- 70 -
18.   Potential local partners will be identified from among local government agencies and NGOs in
Aini, Panjkent, Dushanbe and Shaartuz to implement small scale poverty alleviation projects targeted at
vulnerable households. The role of these partners organizations will be critical to the success of this
component and will require close monitoring and support by SCF (UK) staff to ensure that projects are
appropriate and targeted to vulnerable households.
19.   Training will be provided for potential partners in the above-mentioned regions in participatory
approaches to needs assessment, project appraisals and design, implementation and monitoring.
Perspective partners will then be invited to submit proposals for small-scale poverty alleviation projects
targeted at approximately 100 vulnerable households. Targeting criteria as well as levels and forms of
material assistance will be based on SCF experience in Khatlon, but may vary slightly depending on local
circumstances.
20.   On the basis of proposals received, SCF (UK) will select up to 16 small-scale pilot projects
(approximately four in each of the four regions), for implementation over a two-year period.
Disbursement of funds and monitoring of implementation will be accompanied by further training and
exchanges of experience among partner organizations and SCF as well as other interested agencies.
IMPLEMENTATION
21.   See attached implementation plan.
MANAGEMENT
22.   Overall management of the project will be the responsibility of SCF (UK)'s program manger for
Tajikistan based in Dushanbe. Day to day operations will be managed by a project manager based in
Khatlon with support form the program administrator for procurement and logistics as well as financial
monitoring, and from the training coordinator for local capacity building.
23.   In addition to national and international staff SCF (UK) will draw on the services of advisors and
consultants for specific areas of work.
24.   SCF (UK) activities in Tajikistan from part of its Central Asia program managed by the program
director based in Tashkent. Support to the Central Asia program is provided by the South Asia desk in
SCF London and by the Kathmandu advisory office.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
25.   Major environmental concerns in Khatlon province include the impact of intensive cotton
cultivation, management of solid wastes, growing environmental health problems, and deforestation.
26.   Environmental considerations will be incorporated into the assessment and monitoring of both
components of the program.



- 71 -
SUSTAINABILITY
27.   Sustainability may be considered at three levels:  the household, community and service
institution. The program aims to deliver rapid support to vulnerable households, as well as to build the
capacity of local institutions to provide such support in the future. At the household level, the
implementation of this pilot will assist in establishing the criteria for sustainability, including: the levels
of support necessary to make a significant impact on welfare; the level and rate of repayments which
households can maintain; the levels of technical support and training required to make full use of material
inputs; and the implications of technical inputs for household resource (in particular labor) allocation.
28.   At community level, intensive training of group leaders and management committee members will
be undertaken in order to ensure the cohesion of FHH groups and school/day-care management structures,
and their continued role in supporting vulnerable households.
29.   At the institutional level, the project will work closely with TASIF ad individual ministries and
other participating agencies in order to learn jointly the lessons of implementation and contribute to
national capacity.
LINKS WITH THE TASIF
30.   This is the key element in term of institutional sustainability for poverty alleviation. The
experience gained by this program will provide lessons applicable to TASIF. In order for these lessons
to be shared between SCF (UK) and TASIF a close working relationship will be established during
project preparation which will require the creation of informal and formal fora for collaboration at
national level. The monitoring and reporting mechanisms will be a major means of achieving this
objective.
BUDGET
31. The total budget is $1,031,744 for the Program: $423,497in Year 1, and $447684in Year 2 and
$160,562.5 in Year 3.
MONITORING AND REPORTING
32.   SCF(UK) will maintain an internal monitoring system for key program indicators (table 0).
Quarterly narrative and financial reports will be submitted to GOT within thirty days of the end of each
quarter. A final report will be submitted by SCF(UK) to GOT within sixty days of the end of the project
period. Reports will be prepared by the Program Manager, Tajikistan.



- 72 -
Table n: Key indicators for internal monitoring system
Component                    Monitoring Indicators                               Monitored by
1. Support to Vulnerable     Increase in Household incomes:                      Field workers and project managers
Households in Khatlon        a. Health status of household members
Province                     b. Quality of bread
c. Number of livestock
d. Family incomes from other economic activities
e. Quality and quantity of land available for cultivation
f. Knowledge of agricultural methods
Strengthening local capacity:
a. Children's attendance at schools and day-care
centers (numbers of hours per day differentiated by sex
and age)
b. Attendance of teachers at schools and day-care
centers (hoursldays per year)
c. Perceptions of factors affecting attendance.
Access to available services:
a. water
b. security
c. assistance from local and international organizations
d. knowledge of land reform
e. possession of official papers
f. vaccination programs
Capacity Building for Poverty  Indicators of impact on vulnerable households: as sub-
Alleviation in 4 Districts   program I
outside Khatlon
Indicators of improved capacity of selected local
organizations:
a. training
b. conducting baseline surveys
INTEGRATED EVALUATION
33.    An independent integrated evaluation at mid-term and project completion would be contracted by
TASIF to be undertaken by a consultant leading a multi-disciplinary team of local and international
experts. Implementing INGOs including SCF-UK would each nominate a team member, but the team
as a whole would evaluate all aspects of both components of the project including the SCF-UK program
of support to female headed households. The team would visit project sites, review reports and indicator
measurements in the light of its own observations and investigations, and seek to establish lessons to be
learned both at mid-term and for Project follow-up. It would report both to TASIF and to the Bank.
Further details are in Annex L.



- 73 -
34.    Key objective indicators will be measured and monitored by the Project in order to track, in a
consistent and comparable fashion, the essentials of performance against objectives. The key objective
indicators are summarized in Table 1 of Annex L. The first Project objective of impact on the incomes
of the poor will be measured across all sub-components by five key indicators, of which two will indicate
the extent to which this objective has been met in a cost effective and participatory fashion. In addition,
each sub-component will be evaluated according to three specific indicators relating to the particular
program. For the SCF-UK support to female headed households program these three specific indicators
are: number of participating FHHs; household incomes; and household food productivity. These
indicators measure impact, coverage and sustainability. The second Project objective of capability
building would be measured by two general indicators across all components, with a third relating
specifically to the training of TASIF staff.    Thus each sub-component will be evaluated on ten
indicators, of which seven are common to all sub-components of the Project, and three are specific to
each sub-component.   These indicators, and the specific measures and instruments to compile them,
would be refined in a pilot baseline exercise.
35.    Monitoring and evaluation activities are already a feature of the existing support to female headed
households program, and both the findings and systems used will be built upon in the scaled-up program.
The Project would closely monitor the scaled-up program. Specifically, SCF-UK would be asked to
report to the TASIF on a quarterly basis on the following: (i) summary of achievements: number of
beneficiaries reached (direct and indirect) versus goal; cost per beneficiary (total NGO program cost
divided by number of beneficiaries); labor content as a percentage of the NGO program budget; number
of person-days of employment generated; and operating costs as a percentage of the NGO program
budget; (ii) obstacles and issues to be overcome and resolved; (iii) targeting; (iv) community participation;
(v) financial reporting; and, (vi) sustainability. Each of the NGO programs would also have a monitoring
schedule based on its specific characteristics (see para. 32). In addition to this the SCF-UK will report
to TASIF on achieved targets in the support to female headed households program in order to trigger
release of payments by TASIF to SCF-US (see para 39).
ASSUMPTIONS AND RISKS
36.    The greatest risk to the Program is the uncertain security situation which persists in some project
areas. To address this risk, the implementation plans will remain flexible to respond to any changes in
the local situation.
37.    The second risk relates to the limited capacity of local organizations to implement program
activities. Activities within the program itself are directed at increasing this capacity. In addition, to
address this risk the capacity of potential partner organizations will be assessed prior to implementation;
the number of such organizations will be limited; outreach activities will be limited to one hundred
households per organization.
A number of more specific risks could also affect the project:
(a) attempts or influence national staff recruitment: SCF (UK) has a policy of advertising all
posts, with standard application forms and interview records;



- 74 -
(b) attempts to influence beneficiary selection: SCF(UK) has established and published criteria
for beneficiary selection;
(c) fluctuation in prices of agricultural inputs: SCF(UK) monitors market prices and, where
possible, ensures that purchases are made at the optimum time;
(d) harassment of national staff and beneficiaries during distribution; SCF(UK) approaches local
authorities in the project area before beginning project activities to request support and ensure
security;
(e) theft from warehouse or beneficiaries' homes or land; SCF(UK) ensures that adequate
security for warehouse facilities is provided and works with local authorities to resolve cases
of theft;
(f) disease of potatoes, wheat, vegetables and livestock: SCF(UK) will consult closely with
agricultural and livestock specialists and ensure that training and support are provided to
beneficiaries;
(g) attempts to influence school/day-care committees; SCF(UK) will monitor committees closely
and may withdraw support in cases where funds are misused.
38.   Payments by TASIF to SCF (UK) will be made in four tranches of 10%, 40%, 40% and 10%.
The first payment will be an advance payment of 10% of the total budget amount and will be made by
TASIF to SCF (UK) upon Credit effectiveness. Subsequent payments will be made to SCF (UK) by
TASIF based on the condition that achievable outputs agreed to in the legal agreement (appendix B) are
met. These are as follows:
Second Payment of 40% when:
700 vulnerable FHH identified
700 vulnerable households categorized
Group leaders appointed
Agriculture packages as defined by groups with procurement plans
Wheat seed purchased and available for distribution
Third Payment of 40% when:
Schools and daycare centers identified
Formation of committees for schools and daycare centers
$15,000 in grants made to daycare centers/schools or other social services as identified by committees
Distribution of agriculture inputs according to packages as defined by groups in Stage 1
Payback on agriculture inputs equivalent to further inputs to 500 to 700 FHHs.
500-700 FHHs identified
500-700 FHHs categorized
Groups leaders identified



- 75 -
Capacity building component:
Needs assessment training in four areas
Project management training in two areas
Fourth payment of 10% when:
Agriculture inputs reached 1600-2000 FHHs
$30,000-$50,000 worth of grants to daycare centers/schools or other social services as defined by groups.
Training provided to 16 organizations for capacity building
$85,000-$150,000 total amount in grants made to local organizations in Capacity Building component.



SAVE THE CHILDREN FUND (UK) IMPLEMENTATION PLAN IJUNE 1997-1999)
Supnort tor Daycare
Centres and Schools      June'97 July  Aug. Sept.  Oct. Nov. Dec Jan'98 Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July Aug  Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan.'99 Feb. Mar. Apr. May June
Period of Operation
Schools               I
Daycare Centres
Formation of Committees
Schods                                      X
Daycare Certres               .             X
Development of Business Plani
Schools               ,                            X                                     X
Daycare Centres                                    X                                     X
Start up Grants       ..
Schools                                                 x
Daycare Centres                                         X
Receiptof Payback
Schods                                                                                        X    X                                                           x
Daycare Centres                                                                               x    X                                                           X
Evaluation
Schods                                                                                  X                               x                                 x
Daycare Certres                                                                          X                              x                                 x
'..'.
SCFUK.IMP, SHEET 3
Implementation Plan
z  ':I.i;t, ..  t .e  .:: 4. ... . . . ' . . . ., . ,. ~~~~S.                                                             ...  .  . S. _;, 



SAVE THE CHILDREN FUND IUKI IMPLEMENTATION PLAN (JUNE 1997-1999)
Aagcultural
Activities   June'97  July Aug Sepi Oct. Nov. Dec Jan.98 Feb. Mar Apr May Junr July Aug Sepl Oct. Nov. Dec Jan'98 Feb.  Mar. Apr   May  June
Potatoes
List I                D   P               H   P                   H&C
D    P                         H&C
0   p                  H&C
List 2                                                                    D   P                H&C
D   P                                 H&C
D   P                         H&C
Wheat seed
Listl                         D   P                               H   C
D      p           H    C
List 2                                                                            D  P                                       H     C
I)     P                  H     C
Vegetable seed
List 1                                                        D   P               HWC                                  D     P
List 2
Cows (with calves)
List I                                D                                                            C
List 2                                                D                                            C
Calves
List 1                                                                                             D
List 2                                                                                                          D
Tools
List i.               D                                               C
List 2                                                                    D                                                        c
SCFUK.IMP, SHEET 2
Imnplementation Plan         J



AE THE CHILDREN FUND (UK) IMPLEMENATATION PLAN (JUNE 1997-1999)
ocal Capacity Building   June 97 July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan98 Feb March AprIl May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan99 Feb Mar April May June
e.ds Assessmnent Training                                                              2
ni Pnjikont                                                                            2
, hrtuz                                       1                                                              2
ushnnbe                                       1                                                             2
ropcsal Submilson
Ii P.nfiknt                  i1                                                                        2
3rtuz                                                     1                                                              2
usharbseb                                                   1                                                              2
roject Mgt Training
In Panjiksnt                            1                                                              2                              2
rrtuz                                                            I                         1                             2                              2
ushrnbe                                                           I                          1                             2                              2
valuation                                                                               1                                                            2
I Pmfnkent
3hartaz                                                                                                      I                                             2
ushanbe                                                                                                     1                                              2



SAVE THE CHILDREN FUND (UKI IMPLEMENTATION PLAN (JUNE 1997-19991
AGRICULTURAIISOCIAL SERVICES INPUTS TO FHHs AND CHILDREN
Proitc_Management               June '97 July Aug Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan.'98 Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July Aug Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan 99 Feb. Mar. Apr. May June
Gracduation of Fieldworkers to Trainert X
Recr'jitment of fleldworkers    X
Training of iiehlworkers        X       X
Survey and Setection of V'iages  X
Ident.fication of 1400 FFHs S
700 households                 I       X    X
List 1: 700 FFHs recipients of inputs  X    X
List 2: 700 FHHs recipients of paybacks  X    X
List 0: 700 additIonal households                                                                 X    X
Group Formation                              X                                                              X
Bi mcnthty group meetings      :                       X         X           X         X          X         X         x         X          X         X          X
Agrculture Technical Assiglance         X    X    ,,                           ,,                      X    x .
Advecacy, information dissemination and
legal support                   X       X    X    X    X   X    X    X       X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    A   X        X   X    X    X    X
House-to-House Monioring       :X       X    X      X X    X    X     X      X    X X     X X       X X    X          IN:   X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
Evaluation                                                                                                                                                      X ,-
SCFUK.IMP, SHEET 1
Implemietatlon Plan                                                                  Page]



-76 -
ANNEX E
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL REFORM PROGRAM (AGA KHAN FOUNDATION)
SUMMARY
1.    The Agricultural Reform Program  (ARP) is being implemented by the Pamir Relief and
Development Program (PRDP) in collaboration with the Aga Khan Foundation (AKF) in the Gorno-
Badakhshan Autonomous Oblast (GBAO), the mountainous region of eastern Tajikistan. Since its
inception in 1993, the program has grown more rapidly than anticipated, and PRDP has specific plans
for its significant expansion in the next few years in the areas irrigation and new land development. In
1997/1998 ARP will complete the construction of 32 gravity-flow irrigation channels (107 kilometers)
in six of GBAO's seven districts'' which will enable the cultivation of 3,877 hectares of new privately
managed land. Some 1,600 small resource farmers will participate. PRDP will provide technical advice
along with provision of improved seed, fertilizer, and other inputs on credit. In addition, the program
will furnish resources for PRDP's expansion through the development of district offices of the NGO.
OBJECTIVES
2.     Due to geo-political reasons, the region of GBAO has always been isolated from much of the rest
of Tajikistan. In spite of its isolation, the Soviets did establish an extensive system of collective (kolkhoz)
and state (sovkhoz) farms with centralized management. With little arable land and misguided decisions
of central planners, however, GBAO was heavily dependent upon imports from other regions of the
Soviet Union, and 80% of needed foodstuffs was brought in annually. After the collapse of the Soviet
Union in 1991, the residents of GBAO faced severe hardship and a widespread system of humanitarian
food distribution was established by the Aga Khan Foundation (AKF). This continues today. The major
needs of the populace are the provision of food, along with the creation of employment opportunities.
Some 80% of the labor force is estimated to be unemployed. It is in this context that the Agricultural
Reform Program is especially relevant.
3.    By charter, AKF is a development institution and not a relief organization. Thus in 1992 it
established the first local NGO in GBAO, the PRDP (Pamir Relief and Development Program), which
has been active in increasing the production and productivity of the region's agricultural sector through
the ARP, along with continuing its humanitarian assistance.
1/ These districts include Darwaz, Vanch, Rushan, Shugnan, Roshtkala, and Ishkashim; only the district of Murghab is
excluded because its populace is largely pastoral.



- 77 -
4.    The long-term goal of the ARP is to establish self-sufficiency in and reliance upon staple food
crops in GBAO through the fostering of increased efficiency and intensification of land use in an
environmentally sound way throughout the region. The basic objectives involved in the expansion of
ARP in GBAO for the coming years of 1997-1998 are as follows:
1. To expand the area under food crop production;
2. To increase food crop production and productivity;
3. To establish and support private farm management;
4. To develop human and institutional capacity in agriculture.
5.    The major targets to be achieved in the coming years include the following:
1997    1998    TOTAL
# channel systems
completed (within year)  19   13      32
# kilometers of channels
completed (within year)  31.8 km  76.0 km  107.8 km
# hectares of land brought
under cultivation
(within year)      325 ha   627 ha  952 ha
# hectares of land to be
brought under culti-
vation by 2004                    3,877 ha
6.    Focus will be upon small resource farmers throughout GBAO. Assuming that 1,600 farmers are
included in the program by 1998, and with an average family size of 8 persons, a total of 12,800
individuals will directly benefit from this expansion of ARP. The improvement in crop production and
the corresponding development of markets will in turn help all consumers of agricultural products in the
participating rural communities and in the region in general.
STRATEGY AND TARGETING
7.    PRDP works only with farmers who want to become (or have become) private farmers. Private
ownership of land is not important, but private management is. PRDP motivates farmers to negotiate
with the Government of GBAO for land (both previously cultivated and new plots) and assists them in
negotiating with kolkhoz authorities and district officials in order to obtain formal written contracts for



- 78 -
private management which define and guarantee land access rights.z' Subsequently PRDP helps private
farmers by providing agricultural inputs (improved seed, fertilizer, and fuel) on credit, along with
technical advice and assistance in cropping and irrigation.
8.      Since ARP began, villagers' first and foremost concern has been the need to bring additional
lands under cultivation in GBAO.3' Thus the NGO decided to assist farmers in channel construction and
new land development. The specific strategy is as follows:
*   Villagers desiring PRDP assistance in channel construction and new land development must
first come together, agree to work on the channel, and discuss their plans.
*   The farmers form a group and elect a sardar (leader) who will be the primary negotiator with
both government and PRDP.
*   The group prepares a formal written request to the government. The sardar then negotiates
with the government officials and obtains permission in writing for the farmers in his group
to utilize the designated unused lands for private management once the channel is completed.
*   The PRDP Agronomy Supervisor must then visit the proposed new land and ascertain that
it has suitable potential for cultivation. The PRDP Irrigation Engineer must also visit the
land, ascertain that the channel construction is feasible, and calculate its cost.
*   PRDP finally signs a formal agreement with the farmers' group stating that it will help with
channel construction and land development (i.e. technical assistance and materials).
*   Villagers agree to provide all manual labor required for channel construction, which is
fostered by Food-For-Work financed by GTZ.
9.      PRDP does not target the poor per se. At present individual village households and communities
are quite homogenous in their needs and, as noted above, all of the residents of GBAO face severe
hardships. If, with time, communities and/or households become more stratified economically, PRDP
will re-examine its policy.
2/ The specific PRDP-related agricultural reform processes in the area of farm restructuring are consistent with the National
Government's land reform and farm restructuring program that is currently being implemented on a pilot basis in other parts
of the country and is supported by IDA's Agricultural Recovery and Social Production Credit .
3/ At present a total of approximately 13,000 hectares of land in GBAO is under cultivation, which include both kolkhoz
plots and PRDP-assisted privately managed lands. Grain yields from these fields fall far short of the necessary 30,000
metric tons of wheat annually required for GBAO, however, and rations continue to be distributed to all of the populace
with AKF assistance. An estimated 10,000 hectares of potential land for cultivation exists throughout the region which
presently lack irrigation sources. Although of varying quality, some 4,000-6,000 hectares exhibit very good potential for
wheat, barley, alfalfa, and potatoes.



- 79 -
ACTIVITIES
9.     The specific activities included here pertain to the four major objectives of ARP:
1. To expand the area under food crop production:
Activities:
a. increase the amount of land under food crop production;
b. establish new irrigation systems;
c. establish an intensive cropping system;
d. use Food-For-Work for irrigation channel construction and new land development.
2. To increase food crop production and productivity:
Activities:
a. supply agricultural inputs (improved seed, fertilizer, and fuel) on credit;
b. foster high-quality seed multiplication and seed distribution between farmers.
3. To establish and support private farm management:
Activities:
a. upgrade competence among farmers in negotiating with kolkhoz directors;
b. establish private farm management;
c. assist in establishing an open market and encourage sale of surplus produce.
4. To develop human and institutional capacity in agriculture:
Activities:
a. train PRDP staff to help private farmers negotiate agreements with the Government for
private use of land, conduct irrigation activities; provide    assistance in land
development;
b. train farmers in resource (water) and crop management.
IMPLEMENTATION
10.    By 1996 some 32 agreements had been signed by PRDP with the same number of farmers' groups
throughout GBAO; these range in size from 10-100 members.4' TABLE 1 contains a list of these groups
by district, which usually take the names of their respective village communities.
4/ Not all applications received by PRDP have been approved; a number of channels were found to be too expensive to
construct.



- 80 -
11.    One irrigation channel is being constructed in each scheme.  These small-scale gravity-flow
channels vary greatly in length, with an average of approximately 7 kilometers. The sardar (elected
leader) organizes his fellow villagers to provide the manual labor and coordinates the work. The specific
hectarage to be cultivated when the channels are completed also varies greatly, with some supporting 5-10
individual plots of privately managed land while others servicing 70 or more.5'
12.    Since Spring 1996 a GTZ-funded Food-For-Work component has been established in ARP for
farmers participating in channel construction, and this has proved very successful.t' Individuals are
reimbursed with wheat flour according to the amount of work they complete. The PRDP Irrigation
Engineer initially calculates the number of person-days form the channel construction, with one day
entitling the worker to 500 grams of flour. After every 500 meters the work is evaluated and, if of
quality, Food-For-Work is
distributed.
13.    TABLE 1 contains detailed information about the ARP channel construction schedule in 1997-
1998. During 1997 construction will be undertaken in all 32 sites, and by the end of the year 19 channels
will be completed. During 1998 construction will continue in the remaining 13 sites.
14.    In each site the PRDP Engineer will supply necessary cement, tools, etc., to the local sardar.
The amount of these materials specific to the planned channel has previously been determined by PRDP
staff and is recorded by both PRDP and the sardar. During construction the sardar will coordinate the
manual labor, check how many people work on the channel each day, record individuals' names, and also
keep careful accounts of how much material is utilized. Materials are either stored at the sardar's house
or in another local storehouse. village groups often collect contributions from members in kind (wheat,
etc.) to pay skilled labor to run the tractors, compressors, etc., involved in construction.
15.    One PRDP staff member Engineering/Agricultural specialist) in each district will be responsible
for coordinating all of this work, and he will monitor each channel construction. Quarterly reports will
be filed with PRDP Headquarters concerning all channels in his respective district. Each 500 meters the
sardar will also take stock of who has worked on the channel and distribute Food-For-Work accordingly
(500 grams wheat flour per day of work).
16.    TABLE 2 presents PRDP's Land Development Activity Plan and pertains to the new plots to be
brought under cultivation following the completion of irrigation channels. A longer channel does not
necessarily mean that more land will be able to be cultivated; each system is specific to its own terrain
and land quality. A significant portion (952 hectares)Z' of the newly irrigated land will come into
production by the close of 1998. However, as TABLE 3 also illustrates, some plots of new land will not
be fully developed until 2004. A number of factors are involved here: length of channel and time
necessary to complete, time necessary to level and develop land, quality/fertility of the land itself, etc.
51 There is no direct relationship between length of channel and hectarage able to be irrigated. A comparatively short
channel may irrigate many plots of land, while a long channel may irrigate only a few.
6/ Reimbursement for work such as this is an important change, albeit small, from the extensive food ration system now in
place throughout the Pamirs.
7/ To date, some 109.5 kilometers of channels have already been completed, with a total of 215 hectares of new land having
been cultivated. These figures are also reflected in TABLE 2.



TABLE 1:        ARP CHANNEL CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE 1997/8
CHANNEL CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
(Ha.)              1  9   9   7                                    1  9  9   8
District   S/N    Project Name  Length F  |M   A   M   J  |J   A   S  1    N   D    J  F   M  A  IM  IJ   J  A   S   0  N   D
Da, waz       1 Khurnev              3             xxx xxx xxx
2 Amshun               6      xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
3 Khob                3.6                             _
Va_ j        4 Rekhch                6     xxx xxx                     xxx xxx xxx
Rushan       5 Gudara                4     xxx xxx xxx
6 Nisur                3      xxx xxx xxx                     xxx xxx
7 Bijravd              2              xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
8 Roj                  5         xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
9 Dersud              12          xxx xxx                     xxx xxx
10 Basid                5         xxx xxx xxx
11 Pasor                3         xxx xxx                     xxx xxx
Shugnan     12 Manem                 5         xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
13 Sherboj            2.7             xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
14 Sokcharvdara         3         xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
Ro htkala    15 Shokhirizm          22 xxx xxx xxx xxx
16 Bishcharv           18 xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
17 Khurnvinov          10         xxx
18 Tride                5     xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
19 Sumjev             2.5         xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
Da:-waz     20 Dashti Luch          19         xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx    xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
21 Dashti Yovon        2.5                                 xxx xxx xxx                xxx xxx xxx
Va)j        22 Vishkharvak           5     xxx xxx xxxl                                    xxx xxx xxx_
Ru - han    23 Roshorv              16         xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx    xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
24 Savnob               8              xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx    xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
25 Bopasor              3                              xxx xxx xxx xxx     xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
26 Shoshin Dasht        3              xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx    I           xxx xxx
Roshtkala    27 Baroj                8             xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx                 xxx xxx
28 Khun                 6              xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx                xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
29 Sharvdara            7              xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx                xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
30 Dev Lokh             6              xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx                xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
Ishkashim    31 Vranj                5 xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx    xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
32 Zong                 8 xxx xxx xxx         I                           xxx xxx xxx xxx (xx x    _        _



- 81 -
17.   PRDP will assist the farmers in the development of the new land which includes help and
guidance in leveling the land and construction of offtake channels from the main channel. The PRDP
Irrigation Engineer will also conduct assessments on water use for each system. The PRDP Agriculture
Supervisor and district office Agriculturalists will provide on-going ARP inputs: advice on what to grow,
land development, provision of improved seeds, fertilizer, and other inputs on credit (to be paid back in
cash or kind following harvest).
18.   Through discussions with participating farmers and analysis of land intended for irrigation, the
following distribution of crops is anticipated on the new plots:
70% wheat
10% barley
10% alfalfa
10% potatoes/vegetables
In general, the larger plots will be planted in grains, and the smaller in vegetables. Wheat will largely
be consumed by the producing household, while the other crops will be marketed.
19.   Planning workshops of one week in length for all PRDP staff involved in ARP will be held prior
to each cropping season in April and November. At this time progress to date will be reviewed,
techniques of negotiation with government and farmer will be improved, and new crops, seeds, fertilizers,
and other technical innovations to be included in the program will be discussed in detail. The status of
ARP will be reviewed district-by-district, with staff planning the coordination of land development and
other agricultural inputs for the newly irrigated plots.
20.    Staff will make frequent contact with the communities involved in ARP in their respective districts
and will continue to support the farmers to become active decision-makers in their agricultural activities.
PRDP intends to examine the dynarnics pertaining to village group formation and functioning vis-a-vis
channel construction. It will also continue to encourage those farmers who obtain surplus in their
harvests to sell such, and will provide assistance in transporting their surplus to market. Lessons learned
will be shared with staff, who will then encourage successful group formation and participation in other
PRDP undertakings.
21.    This expansion of ARP activities will be possible through the corresponding development of
existing PRDP district offices. Additional district staff will be hired, so that an Engineer, Agriculturalist,
driver, secretary, and storeman are present in each. In addition, the provision of office equipment (e.g.
telephone, chairs/tables, file cabinet, computer/printer, generator, etc.) will enable these units to function
more efficiently and successfully coordinate ARP work.
MANAGEMENT
22.    Management of this Agricultural Reform Program (ARP) is carried out in at PRDP Headquarters
in Khorog, GBAO, by PRDP's Deputy General Manager. Technical aspects of the project will be the
responsibility of the Irrigation Engineer and the Agricultural Supervisor, with assistance from the district
field staff (Engineer and Agriculturalist). AKF, with its office in Dushanbe and its new Program Director
in Khorog, plays a supportive role and provides guidance on a number of issues.



- 82 -
1. PRDP has primary responsibility for the following:
a. implementation of ARP;
b. negotiations with local authorities and state farms for making land available for private
farming;
c. negotiations with individual or groups of farmers on agreements establishing the conditions
for provision by PRDP of agricultural inputs;
d. procurement of agricultural inputs and their distribution to contracting farmers;
e. verification of progress made under each agreement;
f. recruitment of PRDP program personnel and determination of conditions of employment
subject to agreed budgetary guidelines or limits;
g. preparing situation and implementation reports for AKF and donor agencies;
h. preparation of draft budgets.
2. AKF has primary responsibility for:
a. recruitment and terms and conditions of employment of consultants;
b. negotiating with PRDP management on the establishment of project budgets;
c. presentation of budgets to donor agencies;
d. provision of funds and payment of suppliers within agreed budgets;
e. financial control and auditing of PRDP accounts;
f. appointment of PRDP General Manager.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
23.   PRDP's activities are being implemented in an environmentally sound way. Staff is clearly aware
of the fragile nature of the Pamir ecosystem, and they act accordingly. The proposed ARP will not have
adverse effects upon the enviroinent:
*     The small gravity-flow irritation channels will result in only the re-routing of water,
which will then flow into the same mountain rivers as prior to channel construction.
*     Trees and other vegetation will grow along the channels (as encouraged by PRDP), and
these "vegetative breaks" will help to stop erosion.
*     Channels such as these have been similarly constructed in GBAO for centuries, and both
the local populace and PRDP engineers/agriculturalists are well-versed in the technology.
*     Land to be brought under cultivation is not on the mountain-sides but rather on the edges
of existing fields and in valleys.
*     No displacement of communities will be involved.
*     The project will give farmers even more incentive to manage water sources carefully in
a stress environment and encourages group formation and participation at the village
level.



TABLE 2: ARP IRRIGATION ACTIVITY PLAN 1997/8
Complete canal in 1997             Command Area (ha)  Canal Length (km)             LAND DEVELOPMENT SCHEDULE
District   S/N    Project Name    Total  Completed  Total   Completed  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002   2003  2004
Darwaz       K    Khurnev               12         3         3         1.5     8     4
2 Amshun                10          2        6         1.5     5     5
3 Khob                   7          3      3.6         3.6     3     4
Vanj           4Rekhch                  60        10        6           4    25    10    10    15   =         =      =
Rushan         5 Gudara                150         3        4           3    30    50    50    20
6Nisur                  60          3        3           2    15    15    15    15
7Bijravd                11          3        2           1    3      8
8Roj                    40         10        5           2    10    10    20
9 Dersud               150         25       12          10    30    50    50    20
10 Basid                150         0         5         4.4   20    30    50    50
It1 Pasor                 6        2.5        3           3     3     3
Shugnan       12 Manem                  20         0        5           3                  10    10
13 Sherboj               11        3.5      2.7           1          11
14 Sokcharvdara          25         3         3           1    5    10    10
Roshtkala     15 Shokhirizm             60        45       22          20    40    20
16 Bishcharv             40        30        18          15    30    10
17 Khumvinov             30         0        10           9    15    15
18 Tride                 20         12        5           4    15     5
19 Sumjev               20         0       2.5           0          20
Subtotal           882        158    120.8          89   257   280   215   130   =        =              =
Complete canal in 1998
Darwaz        20 Dashti Luch           500         0        19          6                200   300
21 Dashti Yovon         100          0      2.5           0          50    50
Vanj          22 Vishcharvak            50         0         5          0   _       10    20    20
Rushan        23 Roshorv              1000         0        16          0                 100   200   200   200    200   100
24 Savnob               500          0        8           0          50   100   100   100   100         50
25 Bopasor              100          3        3           1     5      5    40    50
26 Shoshin Dasht         25          1        3          1.5    3    12    10
Roshtkala     27 Baroj                  50         0         8          5           20    30
28 Khun                  65          0        6           0                 30    35
29 Sharvdara             65          0        7           0           10    30    25
30 Dev Lokh              20          0        6           0                 20
Ishkashim     31 Vranj                 300         3         5           1    10    20    20    30    30    50        50    90
|______ |32 Zong                      220         50        8           6    50   170
Subtotal           2995         57     96.5        20.5   68   347   650   760   330   350    300   190
|GRAND TOTAL    3877 |         215 |  217.3 |      109.5  325   627   865   890   330   350    300   190
h            260   325   390   455   520   585    650   650
I260   500   627   752   875  1000   1128  1254
7iLX~~~92  L865  11038 1 2111  1384 11557
II 1L  7  890  11068   1246 1 424 
274 268   330     396   462
i1   280 1  350   420
4474    240   300
5394   152
i ~~~~~~i
( i;d poJc;ic    *j .  2204 wil  i. ; :, lai: 'U!  dcsc" ;i . t,    cquna!s L2,2    .T .: ....   u. $l i25,22          11,A9 i
This is based on production figures of 800kg/ha in the first year, rising by 200 kg/year to a maximum production of 2t/ha, the current average
of farmers in the ag reform programme. Value is calculated at $450/ton, whereas the current market rate in Khorog is $600/ton.



- 83 -
*     Farmers must purchase fertilizers from PRDP (on credit) and thus excessive amounts are
not utilized in their privately-managed fields; in addition, PRDP staff guides their use
with care.
SUSTAINABILITY
24.   At present the entire population of Gorno-Badakhshan is the recipient of AKF-sponsored food
rations. In this on-going system of extreme dependence, PRDP's activities in ARP are crucial. They
will enable more farmers to avail of privately-managed land. They will become active decision-makers
in agriculture, not only individually but also in the context of village groups. Seed quality and crop
yields will improve, local markets will develop, and the potential for sustainable agricultural development
in GBAO will increase.
LINKS WITH TASIF
25.   As ARP is implemented, links between AKF/PRDP and TASIF will be strengthened. Through
joint activities in monitoring and evaluation, the institutions will engage in joint problem-solving. In
addition, in coordination with TASIF, PRDP will host interested government officials from throughout
the country and NGO staff from throughout the country in order to observe PRDP's progress to date and
learn from its experiences.
BUDGET
26.   The total budget for the Agricultural Reform Program is US$656,016: US$217,044 in 1997,
US$285,274 in 1998, and US$153,698 in 1999. More details are included in Annex M.
MONITORING AND REPORTING
27.   The recent placement of an AKF Program Director in Khorog will allow for on-going monitoring
of PRDP's activities, including ARP. Monitoring of district field staffs work is accomplished by
periodic visits by PRDP staff from the Khorog office. A system of careful field reporting in the district
offices is already in place, and this will be continued and strengthened through the further development
of these offices. Records are kept on each of the 32 channel construction schemes including applications
and negotiations of the village groups, distribution of materials, and the progress of channel construction
and land development. District office staff will submit detailed quarterly reports in writing to the PRDP
Head Office in Khorog, where summary reports will be compiled. Quarterly reports are submitted to
AKF offices in Khorog, Dushanbe, and Geneva. AKF/PRDP will submit quarterly reports on ARP
progress to TASIF, and a final report will be submitted after the close of the program.
28.   The key indicators to be monitored are: the number of kilometers of channel construction which
has been successfully completed, the number of schemes completed, and the number of hectares of land
brought under cultivation.



- 84 -
INTEGRATED EVALUATION
29.   An independent integrated evaluation at mid-term and project completion would be contracted by
TASIF to be undertaken by a consultant leading a multi-disciplinary team of local and international
experts. Implementing INGOs, including AKF, would each nominate a team member, but the team as
a whole would evaluate all aspects of both components of the project including the AKF Agricultural
Reform program. The team would visit project sites, review reports and indicator measurements in the
light of its own observations and investigations, and seek to establish lessons to be learned both at
mid-term and for Project follow-up. It would report both to TASIF and to the Bank. Further details
are in Annex L.
30.   Key objective indicators will be measured and monitored by the Project in order to track, in a
consistent and comparable fashion, the essentials of performance against objectives. The key objective
indicators are sununarized in Table 1 of Annex L. The first Project objective of impact on the incomes
of the poor will be measured across all sub-components by five key indicators, of which two will indicate
the extent to which this objective has been met in a cost effective and participatory fashion. In addition,
each sub-component will be evaluated according to three specific indicators relating to the particular
program. For the AKF program these three specific indicators are: channels completed and command area
realized; land area developed for production, households benefiting; and change in food productivity and
production. These indicators measure impact, coverage and sustainability. The second Project objective
of capability building would be measured by two general indicators across all components, with a third
relating specifically to the training of TASIF staff.  Thus each sub-component will be evaluated on ten
indicators, of which seven are common to all sub-components of the Project, and three are specific to
each sub-component.  These indicators, and the specific measures and instruments to compile them,
would be refined in a pilot baseline exercise.
31.   Monitoring and evaluation activities are already a feature of the existing agricultural reform
program, and both the findings and systems used will be built upon in the scaled-up program. The Project
would closely monitor the scaled-up program. Specifically, SCF-US would be asked to report to the
TASIF on a quarterly basis on the following: (i) summary of achievements: number of beneficiaries
reached (direct and indirect) versus goal; cost per beneficiary (total NGO program cost divided by
number of beneficiaries); labor content as a percentage of the NGO program budget; number of person-
days of employment generated; and operating costs as a percentage of the NGO program budget; (ii)
obstacles and issues to be overcome and resolved; (iii) targeting; (iv) community participation; (v)
financial reporting; and, (vi) sustainability. Each of the NGO programs would also have a monitoring
schedule based on its specific characteristics (see paras. 27-28). In addition to this, the AKF will report
to TASIF on achieved targets in the agriculture reform program in order to trigger release of payments
by TASIF to AKF. Payments from TASIF to AKF will be made in five tranches of 10%, 20%, 20%,
40% and 10%. The first payment of 10% will be an advance. The four subsequent payments will be
made against achieved targets which are given below:
End of June 1997: Second Payment of 20%
- First planning workshop for ARP staff held in April
- 6 district offices in the process of enlarging/strengthening (each being staffed with engineer,



- 85 -
agriculturalist, secretary, storeman and driver; each being provided with telephone,
chairs/tables file cabinet, computer, printer, copy machine, heater and generator)
-  4 irrigation schemes completed (out of 19 for 1997)
-  Construction of remaining 15 irrigation schemes begun.
September 1997: Third Payment of 20%
-  8 irrigation schemes completed (out of 19 for 1997)
-  8 construction of remaining 8 irrigation schemes on-going
-  6 district offices completely enlarged/strengthened (each staffed with engineer, agriculturalist,
secretary, storeman and driver) (each provided with telephone, chairs/tables, file cabinet,
computer, printer, copy machine, heater and generator)
March 1998: Fourth Payment of 40%
-  Second planning workshop for ARP staff held (November)
-  19 irrigation schemes completed (total for 1997; or 31.8 kilometers of channels).
-  325 hectares of new land under cultivation (total for 1997)
-  7 irrigation schemes begun (out of 13 for 1998)
September 1998: Fifth Payment of 10%
-  6 irrigation schemes completed (out of 13 for 1998)
-  7 remaining schemes in on-going construction
-  Approximately 470 hectares of additional new land under cultivation (three-fourths of total
627 hectares for 1998)
ASSUMPTIONS AND RISKS
30.    Humanitarian Aid: Presently the whole population of Gorno-Badakhshan receives humanitarian
aid from international donors in the form of food rations organized by AKF. It is assumed that this donor
assistance will continue (and slowly be phased out) as Pamiris move towards self-sufficiency in the area
of agriculture.
31.   Political Instability: Political instability on the road from Khorog to Dushanbe has led to its
periodic closing, the construction of numerous check-posts, etc. This has direct repercussions upon
Gorno-Badakhshan concerning transport, trade, etc. Relations between the Pamiri population and the
national government are also strained. In addition, the border with Afghanistan is tense. Risks of
conflict are constant, but it is assumed that stability will prevail and program activities will continue.
32.    Seasonal Variation: Another risk concerns the weather in Gorno-Badakhshan. It is assumed that
the seasons, rainfall, and other related conditions will not be harsh and that crops will be forthcoming.



- 86 -
ANNEX F
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF SOCIAL ASSESSMENTt'
INTRODUCTION
1.      A Social Assessment (SA) was been undertaken in order better to understand the nature and
causes of poverty, its dynamics, and the context in which effective solutions may be developed. Although
the SA is best seen as a process of investigation, its central part is a field investigation conducted in May-
June 1996 in seven selected sites, to address the following key questions:
Poverty Profre:
3 Who is poor, where, how and why?
Livelihood strategies:
3 What are people doing?
3 How to meet their basic needs?
Elements for a response:
* What are local priority needs for poverty alleviation?
3 What is local capacity to organize for development?
3 What is the community assessment of existing NGO programs?
3 What are the implications for a Social Investment Fund?
2.      The field study method was based on Participatory Rapid Appraisal which seeks to document local
knowledge of problems and their solutions. Qualitative research was chosen in preference to quantitative
methods at this stage, because the rapidly changing situation in Tajikistan requires an understanding of
the dynamics of change before indicators can be developed for the study of quantitative aspects.
8/ The social assessment report was compiled and written by Ms E. Gomart, consultant to the World Bank, who also trained
and led the research team and analyzed the results of their findings. A research team of 11 Tajik nationals undertook five weeks
of intensive field work in May-June 1996, working extremely long hours and displaying a high level of commitment, a
willingness to learn new research techniques, and an ability to learn about conditions and trends in their country. The team
consisted of Mokhabad Akhmedova; Atoyev Kamol; Abdugafur Khaidarov; Khosanev; P. Kh. Khudaidadov; Shakhia Sh.
Patchadjanova; Maksuda Sanginovna; Firuz C. Saydov; M.H. Tursunov; Davlatmo Yusufbekova; Djema Yusupdjanova. Raisa
Mukhutdinova assisted with translation. Mark Waite led the research team in Gorno-Badakshan, and also edited and translated
the field reports. Government officials at all sites were generous with their time. International NGOs provided ample
information to a demanding schedule, and assisted the field team with logistics. Generous assistance in many ways was provided
by the Center for Strategic Research, the Aid Coordination Unit and the World Bank Liaison Office. Keith Rennie (EMTEN)
provided technical and editorial advice, and the task was managed by Michael Mills (EC3HR).



- 87 -
POVERTY PROFILE
A.    Background
3.    Even before the war, Tajikistan was one of the poorest newly independent states of the former
Soviet Union. It inherited low levels of investment, an imbalanced pattern of industrialization, high
dependency on imported food, and weak social indicators (high malnutrition rates, low school attendance
of girls in most rural areas, high unemployment). Since independence in 1991, chronic poverty was
rapidly worsened both by the collapse of the union economy and by the civil war which caused an
estimated 25,000 deaths and 600,000 refugees and displaced people--mostly from Kurgan Tube region.
Although the civil war is said to have ended in October 1993, fighting erupts periodically and opposition
forces are active in the central-eastern part of the country: in the Garm Valley, and the pre-Pamir districts
of Darwaz and Vanj.
4.    Most households have been hard hit hard by the civil war and protracted political and economic
crises. As a result, security and rule of law are main priorities for the population. There is a widespread
desire for peace, for an end to forced conscription, improved security and increased rule of law. Political
and military meddling by outsiders is seen as a main impediment to normalization. Most people believe
peace may be achieved either by the coming to power of a third neutral political party, or by a coalition
government that will bring together all political factions.
B.    Who are the Poor?
5.    Some communities identified three socio-economic strata: the poorest households, those who were
average, and the rich. Other communities were more sharply divided between a few well-to-do families
and the rest of the population who were "spending their days running after a piece of bread". Some
effort was required to overcome initial reluctance to reveal socio-economic distinctions within a
community, and to cope with local perceptions of the possible motives of outside researchers.
6.    Informants identified the poor as those who, through a combination of adverse factors, are
struggling to put bread on the table. The poor are those who in the past relied the most on allowances
and other forms of subsidies during the Soviet Union. Poor families tend to have no working man; many
children (eight or more); no land, or just a small area often planted only with wheat; insufficient
agricultural inputs; and poor state of health. The poor include those families who rely overly on salaries
from the kolkhoz (i.e. the man works on the kolkhoz), social services or unskilled labor (e.g. cleaner).



- 88 -
7.     The middle stratum of society includes those people who need to work hard and use all their
resources to make ends meet. They usually have at least two males of working age, and thus, in
comparison to poor families, have a higher ratio of males compared to females, children and elderly.
These families also have access to land which they are cultivating. They may hold two or more cows
(or one cow, plus sheep or goats). Cash remittances from family members working elsewhere are
important. Within this group, the households that are doing rather better are those that have a resource
cushion which they have been able to accumulate or to preserve. This cushion consists of savings (e.g.
cattle or capital), or productive assets (e.g. orchards or equipment) which allow the household to survive
a period of adversity. By contrast, most people who find themselves towards the bottom of this middle
stratum are conscious of the risk that they may fall into poverty. They are relatively poor and are able
to meet only the most basic food and clothing needs. The solutions that they have found to their
problems are vulnerable to being nullified at any time by corruption, insecurity, and market fluctuations.
8.    In general, the rich are those who have a link to the management of local industries, to local or
regional government, or to the security forces. In towns and large district centers, respondents perceived
that the rich gain a living not so much from their work itself, but through benefits obtained by virtue of
their position of employment. Another source of wealth is large remittances from Russia.
C.    Local Criteria of Poverty
9.    Communities identified the following indicators of relative poverty between households. These
are:
*  inability to provide basic household needs: food, shelter, shoes, health, education;
*  no labor, or insufficient labor, available at household level;
*  depletion of assets (cattle, personal property);
*  lack of access to productive assets;
*  lack of employment; and
*  lack of ties to the local ruling clan
D.    Basic Needs
10.   Many households were not able to satisfy more than basic food needs. The quality and quantity
of food available was usually assessed by the type of bread available for household consumption, since
bread quality corresponds closely to household incomes and access to cash and markets. This spring
(1996) many households had to eke out scarce supplies of wheat flour by mixing it with other grains--
maize, and even hay and cotton seeds. Some families had no wheat flour at all, and were using flour
which they made only from hay or other grasses. A few infants were said to have died of hunger in the
villages in the week preceding the survey, and many adults and children were extremely thin and faint
with hunger.



- 89 -
11.    Shelter is a need that cannot be met by many resettled households who have few assets and
sources of cash income. Shelter is also a problem for young families, and results in overcrowding in
single rooms and on plots for single households.
12.    The lack of children's shoes is the most often cited obstacle to school attendance. After food,
shoes are the next the main cash purchase that poor families make. Clothes are also needed among
recently displaced or resettled families who often have left their homes empty-handed.
13.    Poor access to health services was also an indicator of poverty, both because it implies reduced
capacity to generate income, and because it is associated with poor nutrition. Health services are
increasingly out of reach for the poor. Not only are medicines routinely sold, but doctors--especially in
towns--are charging for their services. In villages, doctors have so few resources that treatment is
commonly unavailable. The poor reported that increasingly doctors are turning away poor patients
because they cannot pay for care. As a result, most families try to turn to tabibs, traditional healers who
are found in most villages and towns.
14.   Poor access to education is linked to low incomes, as demonstrated through the lack of shoes,
winter clothes, supplies, transportation and reliance on incomes earned by children. Poor education
uptake also derives from the declining value of education in the eyes of parents, and to tradition which
limits attendance of girls over the age of 11. In urban areas, where schools collect money for repairs,
fees are also increasingly being charged by teachers. The exodus of teachers and decreased attendance
of teachers during the school day also jeopardizes the quality of education.
E.    Labor power
15.    Labor power is literally manpower, and refers to the number of healthy, grown men capable of
providing for the household. The criterion speaks to the felt reality of female-headed households:
*  women without husbands often lack the confidence to request officials for land, nor do they
receive the respect which would lead to the request's being granted;
*  strong workers are needed to clear boulders from reclaimed land;
*  the more male adults compared to the rest of the members of the household, the better off
the household;
*  work in the CIS is mostly physical work, such as construction and agricultural work, which
requites strong, healthy men.
16.    Manpower is threatened by forced conscription which keeps many young men out of the markets
and the fields, and by continued insecurity in areas of former conflict, which impedes the return of
husbands and grown men to these areas.
F.    Depletion of assets
17.    Cattle holdings in rural areas are a store for wealth. There is occurring throughout the country
a rapid and dramatic decline in cattle holdings of formerly "average" (two-cow) families, meaning a



- 90 -
depletion of household savings. Cattle are being sold more rapidly than the rate of natural replacement
in order to purchase flour (especially during the spring) and medicines.
18.    The poor, especially displaced and resettled families and Russian pensioners in towns, are selling
their personal belongings, including refrigerator, furniture, dishes, blankets, and even the wooden floor
planks.
G.    Lack of access to productive assets
19.   Most people hope to cultivate land as a viable local source of income. Land use and leasing is
accorded by law to all rural residents. Land leases are meant to be long-term, with the crop to be
determined by the individual lease-holder. However, in practice access to land is determined less by
residence and more by other factors including: manpower in the household; profession (kolkhoz worker,
farm management, teacher or doctor); regional-ethnic group; availability of resources for cultivation;
quality, and distance of land relative to place of residence; and access to markets. Access to land and
the ability to cultivate it are often reserved for the well-to-do.
20.    The type of cultivation on household plots is a good indicator of resources available for income
generation and access to markets. Cultivation of presidential land which varies greatly in terms of
quality, distance from the village, water supply, etc., can also provide a view into resources -- material
or political to secure and cultivate a favorable plot. The type of land lease obtained by the household
may also reveal its standing within the kolkhoz. The common kolkhoz worker commonly receives one-
year lease for a comparatively small area (e.g. 1-5 hectares, or 100 apple trees) with a predetermined
crop, and a price to be determined on an individual basis at the time of harvest. The well-to-do lease-
holder receives a long-term lease (5-10 years) for a comparatively large area (5 to 600 hectares) with no
predetermined crop.
21.    Access to other types of productive assets such as equipment (tractors, trucks, buses and vans)
is also a good indicator of wealth. Mostly tractors are owned by rural residents, while mechanized
transportation, such as buses and vans, are rented from the city authority and require an agreement with
the town to operate.
H.    Employment
22.    In both urban and rural areas an important criteria of poverty is employment--not only its access
but its type. Heads of households working in the collective farm were considered the poorest. Doctors
and especially teachers in villages were also seen as poor. Those with employment which provides access
to materials and products that can be used or sold on the market were considered the best off--these
included enterprise, farm and government officials. Salaries also vary greatly between sectors. For
example, one farm director earns TR 13,000, and a policeman in Shakhristan, Leninabad region, was said
to make TR 20,000 per month, while the local teacher made on average TR 1,200.



- 91 -
I.     Ties to the local ruling clan
23.     Access to resources for wealth may be a function of membership in a localized clan. Such clans
may dominate entire bureaucracies at the local and regional levels. The case of the village of Galadzor
in Vose was striking. One village consisted of "foreigners" originally from Hovalling. It was
systematically disadvantaged in relation to neighboring Vose-originated villages in the rest of the kolkhoz,
in respect of land distribution, availability of pasture land and employment opportunities as hired labor.
J.     Predisposing Characteristics: Rural, War-affected, and Isolated.
24.   Based on the above criteria we can conclude that three main characteristics render certain areas
liable to poverty: a rural situation, in contrast to an urban one; war-affected villages, and isolated
villages.
25.    Urban areas are less vulnerable to poverty because they present opportunities for employment as
well as access to markets. The poverty of some urban households may be no less deep than that of rural
ones, but it is less widespread. The most vulnerable in towns are Russians, and single pensioners, and
female-headed households without a bread winner. Among the poorest urban households were also those
headed by unemployed, unskilled men.
War affected villages are most at risk from:
-  a high proportion of female-headed families with low levels of man power and poor access
to land;
e  low levels of savings (cattle) that act as a buffer against hunger;
i  low nutritional status because of lack of means for cultivating cash crops, eroded assets
(cattle, personal goods), resulting in poor health status;
*  poor condition or lack of shelter because of destruction related to the war and erosion of
savings (construction materials, cash);
*  discrimination and lack of security which inhibits growth and affects particularly those
originally from Garm and the Pamirs;
*  low level of attendance of schools owing to low incomes and fear of reprisals.
26.   Isolated villages which are located over 10 km from an active market or which do not have a
tradition of cultivating cash crops have been hard hit hard by price increases and by the decrease in real
value of salaries. The situation was caused by the following factors:
* Land problems: non-use of Presidential Land; lack of access to leased land; squeezing of
small farmers off irrigated land by large lease-holders, and from access to pasture lands
* rapidly decreasing level of cattle holdings



- 92 -
* lack of cultivation for market sales
* low level of access to education: affecting mostly girls over 12
* low level of health services provided in villages
27.   In these villages, a solution to the problem was not immediately visible and contributed to the
feeling of hopelessness.
LIVELIHOOD STRATEGIES
28.    How do households and individuals cope with these problems? Throughout the different sites,
several trends were identified:
decreased consumption levels
diversification of income sources (away from salaries, and toward land cultivation)
increased participation of all members of the household (women, children)
increased incidence of begging for and stealing of food products.
29.    Some strategies are common to all situations, while others are more specific to different
situations.



- 93 -
Summary of livelihood strategies by type of site
War-affected villages   Isolated villages   Village near center   Town/Center
Consuming lower      Sale of assets         Home production for   Salaries, from
quality and quantities   especially cattle for  consumption and sales  multiple forms of
of food              purchase of staples   ___  employment
Sale of products     Consumption of home   Market sales           Supplementary,
produced on the      production (milk                             informal incomes
household plot       products, bread, small
amounts of fruits and
vegetables)
Sale of personal     Collecting hay,        Rented land           Remittances
assets: cattle,      medicinal herbs for
construction material,  sale
household items
(blankets, pillows)
Work in the COS      Work on rented land,   Salaries              Market
as hired hand or in
exchange for fuel
Humanitarian         Stealing of produce    Begging               Sale of personal
assistance           especially from                              assets
kolkhoz or rented land
Stealing (at night)  Child labor
A.    Common Livelihood Strategies
30.   Lower consumption: Reduced consumption is a strategy that has been adopted by the great
majority of households in Tajikistan to live through this crisis. Reduction in consumption has limited
expenditures ancd consumption of home produced goods to the basics. Food quantity and quality has been
affected. The use of corn or hay for bread, mentioned above, is one example. Households also reduce
purchases such as meat, oil and sugar to under 10 per cent of their budget. Ceremonies--such as
weddings and funerals--have also been curtailed so that poor families can conduct them.
31.   Support networks: Networks of support are very effective, whether these are based on relatives
or a wider community or neighborhood. For example one pensioner living alone in Dushanbe said that
she relied on her neighbors and relatives for 80 percent of her needs. Within households, the work force



- 94 -
as well as income are commonly pooled, making use of economies of scale and attempting to lower the
dependency ratio. In rural areas, all members of the household, including women and children,
participate in production.
32.    Humanitarian assistance is an essential source of food for poor households in the war-affected
areas and in Gorno Badakhshan.
33.   Remittances are a strategy common to both urban and rural areas with a tradition of sending men
abroad for seasonal jobs. It remains the main strategy for alleviating local unemployment, especially
among young men. Access to this strategy requires the following: a large village or nearby center to
facilitate transportation; a network of ethnic or regional contacts in the CIS; a local tradition of seasonal
labor; and some capital for placement fee, transport and initial expenses. While remittances provide the
main source of income to build up savings, to purchase assets and to rehabilitate war-affected villages,
they do not provide a reliable source of income to cover daily expenses, leaving families sometimes at
risk.
B.    Livelihood Strategies in Villages
34.    Land provides the most reliable source of income to rural households. However access to
sufficient land and essential inputs is limited. As a result, grain production from Presidential land and
household plots satisfies the needs of the household for only 3-6 months of the year. Consequently,
households need to diversify production to more lucrative produce which can be exchanged for grain.
Cash crops were principally sold in small amounts because of difficulties with transport and physical
security. Land leases, as seen previously, do not necessarily provide a good source of income. As a
result, farmers are also informally cultivating land: by planting pasture land, and by double-cropping on
leased land. For example, wheat is planted in leased orchards.
35.    Cattle sales is the main livelihood strategy of the poor in mountainous and isolated villages,
although it depletes a major asset. For those who are able to manage sales in such a way as to avoid this
danger, cattle trade can be an excellent source of income.
36.   Markets: Town markets are a place where rural residents sell home-produced fruits, vegetables,
milk products or meat either directly, or in bulk to a trader. Access to market is a is influenced by:
*  security;
*  distances between the village and the nearest market;
*  local production and demand for home produced goods;
*  costs of production and marketing;
* gender; and
*  access to transport (cart, tractor, truck).



- 95 -
37.   In villages there are no proper markets. Urban based middlemen sometimes come to buy produce
in villages with trucks or cars. Itinerant salesmen also go from house to house to sell or barter goods.
38.    Trade and self-employment in villages consists of petty trade stalls, mostly operated by children
and young women; production of crafts and other sewing (women); renting out of machinery; and private
trading in cattle. Skilled labor in villages, such as carpenters, has additional opportunities for earning
incomes either locally or in other CIS countries. Unskilled labor from the villages travels to the towns
to compete for odd-jobs, or to work the land of large lease-holders. These opportunities are few and far
between, and cannot be a reliable source of income for a household.
39.    Salaries, especially rural salaries, rarely provide an important proportion of household income.
Already low, salaries have been considerably eroded by inflation, and in any case are rarely paid--in one
site, the latest payment was in 1995, while in another there has been no payment since 1994. Yet farmers
receive partial payments in kind. Small amounts of food, fuel wood or cotton stocks are the incentive
to work. Additional income generation activities are also available through the farm such as silkworm
production which is lucrative yet requires a lot of labor. Doctors and teachers receive such small salaries
that they are commonly considered some of the poorest in the village. Town and farm officials on the
other hand, as well as security or army personnel are well paid.
40.    Gathering of medicinal herbs is an additional source of income, especially for pensioners and
women. Yet it provides only small contributions to household income.
41.    Begging and stealing are common among villagers. One pensioner estimated that begging in
distant villages represents 15 percent of her income. Stealing food is another source of income which
is increasing in importance especially in the spring when people have run out of food. This is sometimes
done openly. Stealing fruit and other cash crops for sale at the market was also a main source of income
during Soviet times.
C.    Livelihood Strategies in Towns
42.   In towns the livelihood strategies differed greatly from those in the villages. The main trends in
livelihood strategies in towns and district centers were:
*  diversifying income sources from the main salary to other cash sources;
*  holding more than one salaried job simultaneously;
*  acquiring equipment, transportation or using acquired skills;
* involving all persons in the household in income generation (including children);
* links to agricultural production
43.    Salaried employment remains the preferred source of income for many urban residents, often
being supplemented by other activities (such as trading), earnings from odd jobs, or from salaries from
other formal employment.



- 96 -
44.    While many salaries are low and often unpaid, the following are incentives:
* high salaries in certain industries or sectors (such as security);
* access to equipment, fuel and raw materials for sale or private production;
* associated privileges (housing, free utilities, kindergarten, polyclinic).
45.    Others have lost out in the crisis of salaries, particularly:
* teachers, health workers and other workers in social services;
* unqualified labor;
* workers in uncompetitive industries (i.e. those using raw materials purchased from abroad,
producing low quality products at high costs).
46.    Market activities: In the main towns, large markets attract goods from the surrounding area, and
also from Dushanbe and neighboring countries. Markets are considered to be the main source of income
for urban households. Most industry and social services employees were said to be also involved in
market activities, usually in petty or small trade, before or after their working hours.
47.    Access to the market is limited by:
* physical insecurity, which limits the scale of activities;
* military conscription, which keeps young men away from public places;
* cost of access to market as formal and informal fees to be paid to officials; and
* availability of start-up capital.
48.    Petty trading, where the seller resells goods from the central market to secondary markets,
provides only minimal amounts of daily income, depending on the scale of the operation. Usually all
family members are involved, with the adults purchasing goods and the women and children selling.
There is also small trade in goods stolen from factories or products made from materials obtained through
the place of formal employment. One woman estimated that 60 per cent of her income derives from
dresses she makes from materials stolen at the textile factory. Urban sellers also purchase agricultural
products in bulk from villagers in town or go to nearby villages to purchase goods in bulk. This is a
more viable source of income.
49.    Medium-scale trading applies to products procured from nearby countries, such as CIS, central
Asian republics, Pakistan, China, or the United Arab Emirates; or through intermediary markets such
as Termez, Dushanbe and Ura Tube. Women tend to trade in clothes and household appliances and to
travel by plane and bus for reasons of security. Men, on the other hand, tend to travel by road or rail
and to trade mostly in bulk quantities of food and fuel. The main obstacle to scaling up trade is the need
to secure protection and capital. As a result, certain groups are most likely to be involved in trading of



- 97 -
imported goods, either because they have access to capital (e.g. Urgut Uzbeks) or links to the security
forces.
50.   Wage Labor: Daily wage labor is common in cities. Near the bazaars, large groups of 40-50
men from the town or from the nearby villages stand around hoping for offers of work. Men working
in factories also work as wage labor at week-ends or during their free time. Young boys and men also
stand around with carts waiting for a job.
PROJECT IMPLICATIONS
A.    Priorities, Resources and Opportunities
The main priorities for poverty alleviation are:
*  Peace, security and rule of law;
*  Improved ability to meet basic needs: food shelter, shoes, health education;
*  Diversity of income sources;
*  Access to productive assets to increase self-sufficiency and the ability to produce tradeable
goods.
51.   Peace, security and the rule of law: The desire for peace was widely expressed across the sites
surveyed. People believed that with peace, the economic and political situation would improve and so
would physical security. Physical and psychological insecurity is felt most acutely in war-affected areas
(Kurgan Tube and Garm) and by certain groups, namely Garmis and Pamiris. Women in these areas feel
particularly vulnerable without husbands or grown men to protect them. More general feelings of
insecurity, which were encountered in many regions from Shakhristan to GAO, also inhibit economic
rehabilitation and economic exchange and development. Police and border guards often demand bribes
or part of the produce being transported. Food security is adversely affected when armed men steal
harvests. Peace might also enable the borders with Uzbekistan to be reopened, and bring increased
market and job opportunities. The continued conflict and forced conscription also restricts the mobility
of young men who avoid public places. The lack of rule of law has had a major impact on resource
allocation, favoring ruling clans at the expense of others.
52.   Ability to meet basic needs. To assist the many households throughout the country that are
currently unable to meet their most basic food needs, the following types of activities are proposed:
*  Information dissemination about laws and regulations regarding resource allocation, especially
privatization, in order to improve people's knowledge of their own rights;
*  Material inputs (e.g. seeds, water systems) to assist the poor effectively to exploit those
resources to which they have access;
*  Material assistance to support families in meeting their immediate food and shelter needs;



- 98 -
Development of cash crops and other marketable products through the provision of capital
and material inputs to improve household incomes and therefore access to staples (flour) and
other cash-based needs.
53.    Diversification of sources of income. Diversification of household incomes from dependence
on inadequate salaries towards inclusion of an array of in-kind and cash incomes is the main trend in
livelihood strategies. It can be effectively supported through small-scale savings and credit schemes
targeted to the poor.
54.   Improved access to productive assets, such as land and cattle, is central to enable the poor to
provide for their own needs. Asset allocation that consciously enables their access by the poor, along
with support for the necessary inputs, will permit a more effective exploitation of these resources. A key
requirement is a system of allocation and access that provides long-term security of use and encourages
long-term investment.
B.    Local Institutions, Informal and Formal
55.    Local institutions are structures within which local resources for development can be mobilized.
Institutions working effectively to support households and communities are for the most part informal,
traditional, male dominated, and based on family relations or locality, and often have a religious element.
Formal institutions, such as the Women's Councils or Youth League, are center-based, hierarchical and
top-down.  The survey found that the presence and activities of the formal institutions in local
communities was not always as great as their representatives believed. Despite their limitations, a locally-
based participatory poverty alleviation strategy will have to take account of the limitations and potentials
of both informal and formal institutions and either work through them or at least ensure their passive
support.
56.    The extended family network, in a patriarchal society, centers on the male head of household,
his household and that of his sons. The clan which is based both on family and locality, includes the
immediate relatives of the male head of household.
57.    Neighborhood networks, based on the principle of residential origin, are the second major type
of local network. People who have neither family ties nor do they come from the same village or
neighborhood, are deemed "foreigners." Thus the historical demography of a neighborhood or village
is very important as a basis for understanding systems of resource allocation.
58.    The mosque, Mullah and elders are well respected, informal leaders in the community. The
Mullah and the group of elders can play an active role in programming through information dissemination
to the population; mobilizing resources for programs; monitoring quality and timely execution and conflict
resolution.
59.    Female counterparts to the Mullah--Bibikhallifah--are found both in towns and villages. Their
main role is the religious education of women and performing religious ceremonies with women. More
information is needed on other roles they play in communities of women.



- 99 -
60.   The Mahallah representative or Hudjain in villages is an informal leader elected by the
community. The representative acts as a liaison to the formal local government structures. This type
of local leader can be found in those areas not affected by the war. In GAO, it was found that the
Hudjain works through a council, including one woman.
61.    Representatives of formal institutions should not be expected to represent the communities since
they are appointed from above and often are new arrivals from a different region and/or sector. These
include: the town, district and regional representatives and farm officials. Other formal institutions such
as the Women's Councils, the Youth League, etc., were found to be operating, if at all, then at a smaller
scale than in the past. Since the demise of the Soviet Union, some of these had reformed as different
entities but retained old links, such as the Youth League (formerly the Komsomol--i.e. Communist Youth
League) which retains funding links to the Communist Party.
62.    The SA found considerable local support for a participatory style of development. Communities
would like to be involved program design. Elders are eager to play an active role in program monitoring,
mobilization of resources. Local monitors should be independent from government, particularly in
matters of resource allocation Information dissemination should be improved by using traditional leaders
(Mullah, elders) and publicity at communal centers.
C.    Implications for Regional Focus
63.    The current crisis and internal conflict has had different effects according to regions. The table
below summarizes the main characteristics, opportunities and resources, and suggests a tentative
prioritization by poverty criteria.
D.    Possible Social Investment Fund micro-projects
64.    A number of ideas for projects arose during discussions with local officials, and other community
members. Some of these have already been planned for or are partially constructed, others are programs
which would allow the community to adjust better to the current situation.
65.    The kinds of projects for which community proposals are likely to be developed are:
Social infrastructure
Waste water canal cleaning
Irrigation repair
Pump replacement
Small water and sanitation stations
Public baths and latrines
Small hydroelectric plants
Reconstruction of schools and health points, especially in war-affected or distant villages
Kindergarten repairs or construction
Reclaiming land: new irrigation canals, clearing rocks
Constructing community storage for fruits and vegetables



- 100-
Environmental Projects
Reforestation
Terracing
Flood and mud-slide prevention
Enterprise development
Investment in enterprises--processing of local products
Small loans to micro-enterprises
Employment for women
Small factories: shoes, food processing
Rebuilding of greenhouses for lemons
66.   Programs should be aware of traditional gender roles which often define activities in which
women are willing to take part. Frequently, married and unmarried women alike say that they are not
comfortable going to the market or working outside the village.
67.   Program design should not rely on unverified official representation of the needs and priorities
of the population. Officials are often new to the region and unfamiliar with or remote from popular
concerns. At the same time, the program should be aware of the sensitivities of officials, who may
perceive a poverty alleviation program as evidence of the failure of their policies and management; and
it should seek to develop their positive support.
Summary of causes of poverty and opportunities and resources in each region of Tajikistan
Regions                       Causes of poverty             Opportunities and resources
Kurgan Tube                   - War which has led to a loss   - Access to markets
of assets and man power       - Widely available irrigation
- Insecurity and lack of rule  - Remittances
of law
- Lack of male labor power
GBAO                          - Historical dependency on    - Humanitarian assistance
outside food sources          - Local leaders answerable
- Insufficient land resources    to AKF
- Limited access to markets
Kulyab                        - Chronic poverty             - Man power
- Low level of social
infrastructure
- Insufficient land for cattle
and grain production
- Poor water supply



- 101 -
Garm                          - Ongoing conflict            - Cash crops
- Insecurity and lack of rule  - Previously high level of
of law                        assets
- Loss of assets and man      - Remittances
power
- Reduced access to markets
Leninabad                    - Unemployment                 - Fertile land
- Insufficient land in some   - Highly industrialized
areas                         - Good access to markets
- Low levels of water supply
- Chronic poverty in the
mountainous areas, Macho and
Panjkent
Dushanbe and Western RRS     - Unemployment                 - Access to markets
- Low salaries, pensions      - Access to bureaucracies,
- Environmental degradation    industries
- Lack of rule of law         - Industrialized
- Good land



- 102 -
ANNEX G
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
SOCIAL PROTECTION MEASURES SUPPORTED THROUGH THE AGRICULTURAL
REFORM AND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
1.    The Agricultural Reforn and Social Protection Credit supports Government's efforts to improve
social programs in three specific areas by: (a) protecting social sector bud get allocations; (b) improving
the targeting of safety net expenditures; and (c) restructuring pension and social insurance programs.
PROTECTING HEALTH AND EDUCATION EXPENDITURES
2.    Since 1992, the education and health sectors have been severely impaired by the collapse in
Government revenues and expenditures. The combined share of GDP that was allocated to these two
sectors was 17 percent in 1992 and about seven percent of a much smaller GDP in 1995. As a
consequence, supplies are scarce, wage payments have been irregular, and highly qualified staff continue
to leave both sectors. School attendance is falling and indicators show a worsening of the nation's health,
especially in the rural areas. There is an urgent need for emergency measures in these two sectors,
including immediate efforts to improve the supply of textbooks and basic drugs. In the short-term, the
priority is to ensure that these sectors receive a reasonable share of the severely constrained budget.
Consequently, Government allocated a fifth of the 1996 budget to these two sectors -- 5.5 percent to
health and 14.5 percent to education.
TARGETING SOCIAL PAYMENTS: ALLOWANCES AND SUBSIDIES
3.    Historically, household allowances and public enterprise subsidies were unsustainably large (18
percent of GDP in 1994) and inefficiently delivered. Subsidies to public enterprises, which represented
about 13 percent of GDP in 1994, were a major part of the overall social protection system in Tajikistan
because they allowed consumer prices to be kept below the cost of production. The bulk of these
subsidies were for bread production (paras. 41 and 42), irrigation (para. 30), and transportation. To
protect the poor from liberalization of transport prices, the Government will explore options for the use
of transport vouchers for selected groups.The most important element of the social safety net in Tajikistan
is the bread compensation allowance. Tajik households consume a relatively high level of bread products.
Prior to May 1995, the Government provided a universal bread allowance of 1,800 Russian rubles for
each citizen (representing 4.5 percent of GDP in 1994). Additionally, bread production was heavily
subsidized (8.4 percent of GDP in 1994). As of July 1995, these subsidies amounted to 50 percent of
the price of a loaf of bread and constituted an expensive universal subsidy that did little to target the poor.
In August 1995, both the bread compensation allowance and the production subsidy were replaced by the
reintroduction of a targeted bread allowance and a child allowance. In December 1995, the bread
compensation allowance was doubled to compensate partially for liberalized bread prices. On March 1,



- 103 -
1996, the Government fully liberalized the prices of bread and flour and increased the bread compensation
allowance by an additional 70 percent. (Between August 1995 and June 1996 bread prices rose
approximately eightfold reflecting the removal of public subsidies and higher local currency prices for
imported wheat.) At the same time, the bread compensation and child allowances were combined into
single social welfare payment. This social welfare payment, which amounts to TR500 per month, was
targeted to children under 16 years old (for households with per capita income less than twice the
minimum wage), non-working pensioners whose pensions are less than double the minimum wage,
registered unemployed workers, and the disabled. Because of the dramatic changes in the economy in
recent years, the present targeting system (which is based on 1993 household survey data) needs to be
revised. The Government has decided to undertake a household survey in order to provide a better basis
for targeting. In the 1996 budget, Government allocated TR7.8 billion for social welfare compensation.
This allocation assumes 1.4 million of beneficiaries (out of a population of 5.8 million). Should the
number of applicants for assistance during 1996 prove to be higher than expected, the Government will,
in consultation with IDA, adopt corrective measures to keep the total amount of allowances within the
budget allocation.
TARGETING SOCIAL PAYMENTS: PENSION, SOCIAL INSURANCE AND EMPLOYMENT
BENEFITS
4.    In 1991, Government set up three extra-budgetary funds to replace the large social transfers from
Moscow. Each of the three funds was given a share of the 39 percent tax on enterprise wage bills. Of
the three funds, the largest is the Pension Fund, which receives just over 32 percentage points of the tax.
The Social Insurance Fund and the Employment Fund account for six and one percentage points of the
payroll tax, respectively. Since the end of 1993, inflation and the downward spiral of output has meant
that enterprises have been unable or unwilling to pay the wage bill tax with the result that each of the
funds has suffered serious revenue shortfalls. In turn, there have been many months when the funds have
not been able to make payments to their beneficiaries. The current economic and financial situation
provides little ground for optimism that regular full payments will be resumed in the near term.
5.    The Pension Fund is responsible for the payment of retirement benefits (about three-quarters of
the Fund's obligations) as well as payments for invalids and some other social benefits. Presently, there
are numerous structural problems with the Pension Fund that have contributed to the current crisis.
These include: (a) the fund's promise to pay pensions on the basis of workers' previous income, as if
those workers were paying into an investment account, whereas current pension payments are based on
current payments by enterprises; (b) isolation from the central government budgetary process; and (c) a
rate of taxation on the wage bill is too high. Consequently, the system needs to be reformed to create
an effective and sustainable social safety net -- albeit one with lower levels of benefits than during the
Soviet era. Therefore, in June 1996, as a temporary measure, Government limited: (a) the value of
pensions in order to achieve greater regularity in payments; and (b) the monthly payment to the amount
of actual revenue collections. Further, Government has announced that all pensioners will be paid at the
minimum rate and that the monthly surplus in the Pension Fund, if any, will be distributed to the eligible
pensioners proportionately to their entitlements. Any arrears that are accumulated will be canceled at
the end of each quarter. Additionally, Government has announced that pensions will no longer be paid
to working pensioners.In order to improve the administration of social insurance, in February 1996,
Government consolidated the collection of all payroll taxes under the responsibility of a single agency and
centralized the collection and allocation of Pension Fund revenues to mitigate regional disparities. In



-104-
addition, the Government removed the responsibility for paying child allowances from the Pension Fund
and integrated it with the social welfare payment.
6.    The Social Insurance Fund is an extra-budgetary fund managed by the Governing Council of
Trade Unions that pays sick leave and maternity benefits and also provides various worker amenities.
As with the Pension Fund, the Social Insurance Fund has been unable to meet its commitments in recent
years. Entitlement are generous by international standards and give rise, when in operation, to excessive
use of limited health care services. Sick leave benefits provide up to 100 percent of a worker's salary
for up to four months and birth grants are provided for up to three children. Recognizing the need to
reduce these benefits, Government issued a decree that reduces maximum sick leave entitlement to one
month per year and submitted the supporting legislation to the Majlisi Oli. Additionally, Government
plans to transfer responsibility for sickness and maternity leave benefits to the enterprise responsible for
employing the individual.
7.    The Employment Fund was set up to finance the Employment Centers -- the main institutions
through which certain benefits for labor are delivered, e.g., job placement, payment of unemployment
benefits, public works for the unemployed, training and retraining, protection of disabled and
disadvantaged workers, and registration and repatriation of refugees from the civil war. There are two
immediate problems with Employment Centers that need to be addressed. First, as presently constituted,
the unemployment funds are regional with the result if enterprises in a particular region do not pay the
wage bill tax, unemployment benefits are not paid. A more centralized fund would allow inter-regional
transfers to more distressed areas. Second, with the current unemployment benefits set equal to the
minimum wage and an employment tax of one percent, the Employment Fund would run a deficit if those
claiming benefits are more than four percent of the labor force. Therefore, Government has discontinued
financing wage subsidies for maintaining jobs in financially distressed enterprises.
SUPPLEMENTARY JOB-CREATION
8.    The combination of only very slow economic recovery (and therefore slow employment growth)
and a rapidly growing labor force (by at least 100,000 annually) mean the problem of unemployment will
not be solved by growth in the near term. Even if economic growth were to be as much as five percent
per year, in contrast to the projection of continuing decline for the next two to three years, the number
of new jobs would still be only about 60,000 per year -- well short of what is necessary to absorb new
entrants to the labor force.Recognizing the magnitude of the unemployment problem, Government has
allocated TR150 million for the public works program managed by the Employment Service. Such an
approach is especially attractive given the considerable amount of rehabilitation and reconstruction work
(e.g., roads, bridges, schools and clinics) that needs to be completed.
POVERTY ASSESSMENT
9.    The Government needs assistance to prepare a comprehensive poverty reduction strategy. This
would include preparing a profile of the poor and of vulnerable groups as well as mechanisms for
monitoring changes in poverty. Because of acute data limitations, technical support will be needed to
prepare this profile and the poverty reduction strategy. Under the Credit, agreement was reached with
the Government on the terms of reference for a poverty assessment.



- 105 -
ANNEX H
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
DRAFT GOVERNMENT RESOLUTION ESTABLISHING THE TASIF
1.    In accordance with the aim of realization of the Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project (PPAP) in the
Republic of Tajikistan, proposed and financed by the World Bank, which aims to solve social, economic,
and other problems of the more socially vulnerable populations, by means of creating additional
employment, rehabilitation of the most important social infrastructure works, implementation and
realization of microprojects defined by the local population, assistance to the population in adapting their
activities and skills to new conditions of the market economy, as well as by providing effective control
of the realization of the program implemented by NGOs within the Pilot Project and target used of credit
resources given, the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan decrees:
2.    To establish the Tajik Social Investment Fund, which is a non-commercial, independent, and
autonomous organization responsible for the implementation of microprojects, in the territory of the Tajik
Republic, within the PPAP proposed by the World Bank.
3.    To approve the attached Regulation concerning the Tajik Social Investment Fund.
4.    To regulate that:
(a) The TASIF's supreme leading body is a Board, which consists of an equal number of
representatives of the Government of Tajikistan and non-governmental organizations (NGOs).
The Chairman of the Board of TASIF is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Tajikistan.
(b) The TASIF Executive Committee, headed by the Executive Director of TASIF, is subject to
the Board, manages the operational activity of the TASIF. The TASIF's Executive Director
is to be chosen on a competitive basis, and is appointed by the Government of the Republic
of Tajikistan.
(c) Personnel, and other administrative expenses, are provided by resources of the PPAP
foreseen for these purposes.
4.    Ministries, institutions, and local executive authorities (Khukumat) must assist TASIF in its
activities, including preparation, selection and implementation of microprojects locally aimed to solve
poverty problems.
Chairman of the Government of Republic of Tajikistan



- 106-
REGULATION ON THE TAJIK SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
General Regulations
1.    Tajik Social Investment Fund (hereafter referred to as "TASIF") is a special humanitarian
organization realized under the Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project (hereafter referred to as "PPAP") in the
Republic of Tajikistan which has been financed by the World Bank aims to rehabilitate and develop the
most important social infrastructure works, generate additional employment, design and implement
microprojects, which are based on the participation of the population as well as to provide coordination
within the sphere of the PPAP, programs which are realized by international non-government
organizations (hereafter referred to as "NGOs").
2.     TASIF realizes its activity in accordance with present legislation of the republic of Tajikistan, all
international Agreements made, procedures of the World Bank, Operational Manual and present
Regulation.
3.     TASIF is a legal entity. It possesses separate property, acquires property and non-property rights,
can make on its behalf contracts and can take the part of the prosecutor and defendant in the Highest
economic court and arbitration court.
4.     TASIF is responsible for the obligations for regarding the property which belongs to it, and it
incurs penalties according to present legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan.
5.     TASIF has an independent payment balance, different kinds of accounts in banks of the Republic
of Tajikistan in rubles and foreign currency in accordance with existing legislation of the Republic of
Tajikistan.
6.     TASIF has its own stamps, offices, letter-head and title registered in certain order.
7.     The conditions of present Regulation retain their legal authorities with the period of TASIF
activity.
II. Title, location, aims and lezality of TASIF activity.
8.     The title of TASIF:
-    full title in Tajik:
abbreviation:
-    full title in Russian:
abbreviation
-    full title in English: Tajik Social Investment Fund, abbreviation TASIF
9.     Location of TASIF  Bokhtar st. 17, Dushanbe 734001, Republic of Tajikistan
10.   TASIF has right of a legal entity from the moment, when decision regarding TASIF establishment
was taken by the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan.



- 107-
11.    TASIF realizes its activity within the period of implementation of the PPAP.
III.    Aims and Tasks of TASIF
12.    TASIF has the following aims
-      to provide assistance in resolving the poverty problems through creation of additional
jobs and attraction of the most socially vulnerable groups of population to undertake
income generating activities in conditions of market economy;
-      to provide assistance in increasing the population's activity aimed at resolving local social
tasks and problems;
-      to provide creation, development and rehabilitation of local social infrastructure as a
means of improvement of living standards as well as to provide access for both urban and
rural poor populations to it;
-      stimulation of activity amongst local contractors in the development and rehabilitation of
local social infrastructure; and
-      provision of small credit which are socially targeted and which are managed by
individuals, families, dehkan farms, small enterprises and other legal entities, intended
to promote the development and extension of entrepreneurial activity.
13.    The main tasks of TASIF are:
-      rehabilitation of small social infrastructure works through financing of micro-projects;
-      provision of technical, consultative and practical assistance to local authorities and NGOs
in preparation and realization of microprojects
-      formation and development of working skills within conditions of the market economy
in local organization and private enterprises which are connected to the realization of
projects which have social targeting;
-      generation of employment by locating micro-projects amongst local construction
companies in order to assist them to fulfill micro-projects;
-      monitoring of NGOs contracts executed under TASIF programs;
-      provision of necessary information on TASIF 's activities to the Government of the
Republic of Tajikistan and the World Bank.



- 108-
IV. Sources of Formation of Financial Resources and Property of TASIF
14.    TASIF is the owner of property which belongs to it.
15.    Property of TASIF consists of the main and circulating resources as well as other property cost
of which is it' s own in an independent payment balance.
16.    The sources of formation of financial resources and property of TASIF can be the following:
- financial and material contributions given by the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan;
- financial and material contributions given by the multi-lateral and bilateral programs of the
TASIF's activities
- charitable contributions, gifts of citizens and juridical persons;
- financial contributions given by local and foreign NGOs;
-  grants or gifts provided by foreign governments;
- other sources which are not forbidden by the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan.
17.    TASIF financial resources must be utilized in accordance with the Operational Manual as well
as conditions mentioned in credit and grant agreements.
V.    Rights of TASIF
18.   In order to achieve the aims mentioned in Chapter III of present Regulation, TASIF has the right
to:
-  exercise ownership usage and disposition independently by the full property rights secured
to them, regulated by law and in compliance with aims of its activity,
- make contracts, take other legal actions, and acquire property and person rights;
- independently organize current and perspective activity;
- open current, foreign and correspondent accounts in banks of the Republic of Tajikistan;
- accumulate financial and material-technical resources, to use and dispose of them in order to
achieve its aim and to carry out its tasks;
- conduct conferences, seminars and training on issues relative to activities of TASIF;
- carry out, according to established order, advertisement, publishing and other activities
connected to TASIF's activities and its local branches.
- finance rehabilitation of infrastructure works, disburse credits, conduct technical appraisal of
micro-projects, organize competitions of the awards of contracts and to control the process
of conducting all indicated activities;
- make agreements with individual and local organizations on issues relative to its jurisdiction.



- 109-
-  take the part of prosecutor and defendant in judaical institutions;
-  establish a Consultative Council composed of local specialists which will work on a voluntary
basis to work out recommendation concerning various problems which may arise in the
process of realization of TASIF's activities.
-  engage in other actions, which do not contradict its own aims and existing legislation.
VI.   Governing body and Development of TASIF Activities
19.   The TASIF's highest leading authority is the Board of TASIF (hereafter referred to as "Board").
The Chairman of the Board is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Tajikistan.
20.   The Board consists of an equal number or representatives of Government and non-government
organizations.
21.   The representatives of the Government to the Board are to be appointed and released by the Prime
Minister of the republic of Tajikistan. The NGO representatives are to be appointed by the Chairman
of the Board on their introduction. The members of the Board undertake their authority on a voluntary
basis.
22.   The jurisdiction of the Board includes:
-  definition of strategies of TASIF activities and control of their realization
-  approval of the Operational Manual, annual budget and current financial plans as well as
reports on their fulfillment
-  approval of annual credit program and report on its fulfillment;
-  approval of microproject financing in the amount of more than US$50,000
-  approval of resolutions regarding competition independent auditors invited to review TASIF's
financial activities and following approval of results of audit;
-  review and taking decisions regarding changes and additions to the TASIF Regulations and
to the Operational Manual;
- taking decisions concerning regional branches of the Fund in the territory of the Republic of
Tajikistan
-  approval of the management structure of the Fund;
-  approval and releasing of Board members;
-  other actions in compliance with the present Regulation.



- 110-
23.   The Board meeting is to be held quarterly. Special meetings are to be held according initiative
of the Chairman or majority of the members. A Board meeting is authorized if not less than 50% of the
Board members participate in the meeting. The Board's decisions to be taken by the majority of votes
of the Board members present. In case of an equal vote, the Chairman's vote will be decisive.
24.   The TASIF Executive body is an Executive Committee, headed by the Executive Director. The
Executive Committee staff includes:
-  Executive Director
- Heads of Departments, and
-  Legal Advisor.
25.   Jurisdiction of the Executive Committee includes:
-  realization of TASIF aims and tasks as defined by present regulation
-  targeted usage of resources for financing infrastructure rehabilitation and disbursement of
credit financing in programs of TASIF activities.
- taking decisions concerning allocation and of credit resources;
-  design and approval of Terms References;
-  approval of official instructions and terms and conditions of financing microprojects
according to the regions and definitions of terms to implement them;
-  to conduct technical appraisal of microprojects in order to define their characteristic and costs
and their following approval;
-  to conduct the selection process of microprojects on a competitive basis according to regions
and determine the sequence of their realization;
-  to conduct the competition define implementing agencies of microprojects in cooperation with
local authorities.
-  to control the realization of microprojects and targeted usage of credit with relative local
authorities
-  to present quarterly and annual reports concerning TASIF activities and control of the
realization of decisions taken on the basis of these reports;
-  to take decisions concerning attraction of additional resources to TASIF in order to fulfill its
aims and tasks.
-  design of management structure of Fund;
-  to conduct competitive selection of auditors and inspectors;
-  to organize training of TASIF personnel and representatives of local organizations and
-  resolution of other items not within the executive jurisdiction of the TASIF Board.
26.   The TASIF Executive Director manages all routine activities. The TASIF Executive Director is
to be selected on a competitive basis with a vote of non-objection of the WB, and appointed by the
Government of the Republic of Tajikistan.
27.   The jurisdiction of the Executive Director includes:
- presentation of TASIF to governmental and non-governmental organizations, enterprises and
institutions within and outside the Republic of Tajikistan,



- to sign contracts and to make legal actions on behalf of TASIF,
- selection and presentation of microprojects for approval of the Board and Executive
Committee,
- participation in TASIF Board meetings with the right of voice but no vote,
-  organization the realization of decisions of the Board and Executive Committee
- management of TASIF's activities, including financial, administrative, labor related and
others;
-  management of the activities of TASIF Executive Committee.
- selection and placement of personnel, conclusion and cancellation of employment contracts,
- to dispose of the property and resources of TASIF in accordance with its legislative
documents, to open accounts in banks, to issue warrants, to sign financial and economic
documents etc.
- to make proposals to the Board concerning structural changes in TASIF.
- to carry out other functions which are not within the jurisdiction of the Board or Executive
Committee and in compliance with the present Regulation.
28.   The Executive Director has a personal responsibility to carry out potential tasks in association
with TASIF and regulates the level of responsibility of Departmental Heads of TASIF.
VII.   Accountina and Reporting.
29.   Accounting, book-keeping and statistic report as well as reporting is to be conducted in
accordance with requirements of present legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan, Operational manual and
procedures of the World Bank. The TASIF executive Director is responsible for reliability of the reports
provided.
30.   The results of TASIF activities are to be reflected in quarterly and annual reports presented for
approval to TASIF Board.
31.   Financial and technical audit of TASIF is realized by independent auditors chosen by the Board,
when necessary.
32.   The financial year coincides with a calendar year.
VIII. Dispute Resolution
33.   All disputes arising between TASIF and individuals or other juridical persons are to be resolved
by the Executive Committee o r the TASIF's Board if both disputing parties agree. In all other cases
arising disputes shall be referred to juridical authorities of the Republic of Tajikistan in accordance with
existing legislation.
IX.   Suspension of TASIF Activities
34.   Reorganization (merging, unification, division, apportionment and transformation) of TASIF is
realized by decision of the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan. All property and non property
rights of TASIF transferred to authorized persons as a result of reorganization of TASIF.



- 112-
35.   TASIF can be liquidated by decision of the Government of Tajikistan. Liquidation is to be made
by the liquidation commission, which is created by the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan in
accordance with existing legislation.
X.    Final Resolutions
36.   If one of the Clauses of the present Regulation is ineffective that will not affect its other Clauses.
37.   Changes and additions to the TASIF Regulation are to be made by decision of the Government
of the Republic of Tajikistan.



-113 -
ANNEX I
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
OUTLINE OF OPERATIONAL MANUAL FOR THE TASIF
DRAFT
TASIF: OUTLINE OF THE MANUAL OF PROCEDURES
PART ONE                 OPERATIONS PROCEDURES:
INTRODUCTION
OBJECTIVES
LEGAL STATUS AND STRUCTURE & ROLES OF BOARD AND OF EXECUTIVE
OFFICE
THE SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
TYPES OF ACTIVITIES & OF MICRO-PROJECTS
THE MICROPROJECT CYCLE:
Targeting: *       investment strategy & plan
*        annual investment program
-     comparative poverty assessments
*        quarterly implementation schedule
-     promotion
-     micro-project identification
-     micro-project selection (micro-project criteria)
*        micro-project implementation
-     micro-project technical preparation
-     micro-project contracting (implementation & supervision)
-     micro-project implementation
-     micro-project supervision
-     micro-project hand-over
COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
TARGETING



- 114-
PART TWO                      ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES:
STAFF SERVICE RULES
ADMINISTRATIVE AND FINANCE RULES
PROCUREMENT RULES
AUDITING
THE MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM (MIS)
*  monitoring of the support activities of the project
* micro-project monitoring and reporting
IMPACT EVALUATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (T.A.) & TRAINING
Draft
TASIF Staff
Professional staff:
1.     Executive Director - Secretary to the Board  ED                             oct.96
2.     Finance & Administration Manager             FAM                            nov.96
3.     Micro-Project Manager Area I                 MPI                            nov.96
4.     Micro-Project Manager Area II                MP2                            feb.97
5.     Institutional Support Manager                IS                            feb.97
6.     Legal Advisor                                LA                             aug.96
7.     MIS Manager                                  MIS                            nov.96
8.     Investment Planner                           IP                             nov.96
9.     Monitoring and Evaluation Manager            ME                             feb.97
10.    Procurement Specialist                       PS                            nov.96
11.    Chief Accountant                             CA                            nov.96
12.    Personnel Manager                            PM                            jun.97
13.    Administration Manager                       AM                            jun.97
14.    Micro-Credit Specialist                      MCS                           jun.97
15.    Environmental Specialist                     ES                             feb.97
16.    Promotion Specialist                         PRO                           feb.97
17.    Eng'r-M-P Preparation I                      EMPI                          dec.96
18.    Eng'r-M-P Preparation II                     EMP2                          dec.96
19.    Eng'r-M-P Implementation I                   EMII                          dec.96
20.    Eng'r-M-P Implementation II                  EMI2                          jun.97
21.    Eng'r Field Officer (Khojand)                EFO                           jun.97
22.    Eng'r Antenna Officer (Khorog)               EAO                           jun.97
23.    Assistant Accountant                         AA                            jun.97
24.    Assistant MIS                                MISA                           feb.96



115-
25.    Assistant Promotion                       PROA                        jun.97
26.    Assistant Institutional Support          ISA                         jun.97
27.    Assistant Monitoring and Evaluation       MEA                        jun.97
Support Staff:
1.    Secretary to the Exec. Director                                       nov.96
2.     First Secretary                                                       nov.96
3.     Translator I                                                          nov.96
4.     Translator 2                                                          feb.96
5.     Secretary 1
6.     Secretary 2
7.     Secretary 3
8.     Secretary 4
9.     Secretary 5
10.    Secretary 6
IL.    Drivers
12.    Office helps
DRAFT
OUTLINE
LEGAL STATUS AND STRUCTURE & ROLES OF BOARD AND OF EXECUTIVE
OFFICE
1.    LEGAL STATUS OF THE TASIF:
A.    The TASIF should be set up as an independently operating and disbursing institution
which reports to the Government through the office of the Prime Minister.
B.    A Presidential Decree should be issued asap to establish the TASIF and to establish its
two main bodies (the Board and the Executive Office) and its authorities in managing funds on
behalf of the Government of Tajikistan. This decree will need to be confirmed by Parliament asap
and not later than for loan effectiveness.
C.    The TASIF will develop a Constitutional Charter for the Board and a Manual of
Operations which will lay down the rules and regulations with which it operates and how it
identifies micro-projects and commits and disburses funds. These two documents will require no
objection of the World Bank. The Manual of Operations will require to be in an advanced draft
format as WB-Board condition.



-116-
2.    STRUCTURE OF THE TASIF:
A.    See organogram and staffing table attached.
B.    ROLE OF THE BOARD.
C.    See note attached.
D.    This is to elaborate on the notes referred to in #.5 above.
E.    The Board should develop in the first quarter of its existence a Constitutional Charter
which lays down its operating mechanisms and its role, functions and authorities.
F.    The board will probably meet on a quarterly basis for scheduled meetings. Extraordinary
meetings could be called: conditions should be defined. It is the Secretary of the Board, the
Executive Director who organizes the board meetings with the approval of the Chairman of the
Board (the Prime Minister).
G.    The board meetings will follow an agenda approved by the Chairman. This agenda will
have some permanent functions:
*  once a year, approve the annual investment program  (include. performance
indicators)
and the budget for the next year;
*  twice a year, approve quarterly audit reports on procedures and accountancy;
*  each quarter, approve the implementation schedule of the Executive Office;
*  each quarter, approve the program and relative budget revisions;
*  each quarter, approve the progress report of the Executive office, and approve the
Executive Summary of the Quarterly Report for reporting to the Government through
the Prime Minister.
H.    The different departments and support units of the Executive Office of the TASIF will
also include some specific items on the agenda scheduled throughout the year to balance the
activities of the different regular quarterly board meetings.
I.    It is clear that what is meant by TASIF Board approval means that the Board verifies
whether the Executive Office (EO) has implemented its daily management task in accordance with
the Manual of Operations (MO), and that its performance is in line with the performance
indicators. The TASIF EO will be submitted to a bi-annual audit which will verify whether the
EO has followed the procedures as outlined in the MO and that its accounts are in accordance
with WB-standards. These audits will produce a report on two quarters, which will be submitted
to the Board for their approval. These audit reports provide the guarantee that the EO is
performing according to its mandate.
J.    The Board can propose modifications to the procedures in the MO. Such modifications
are normal as situations can change and as the MO cannot predict all kinds of circumstances.
However, they require WB no-objection.



- 117-
K.    The Board can propose modifications to the Overall Investment Strategy and to the
Annual Investment Program, but these modifications require WB no-objection.
L.    A no-objection procedure by the WB requires typically between two to four months
because of the time required for the transmission of the information.
M.    The Board is in charge to hire and fire the Executive Director of the EO. In the MO there
is a section which describes the Staff Service Rules (SSR). The Board will have to follow the
rules as described in the SSR to be able to enact that authority.
N.    The Chairman of the Board will sign contracts over a minimum threshold on approval
of these contracts by the Board. Signing a contract of that nature will require WB no-objection
as well. It is clear that a micro-project which exceeds the threshold will take a longer
implementation schedule than normal micro-projects (which fall within the threshold).
4.    ROLE AND FUNCTIONS OF THE EXECUTIVE OFFICE:
A.    The Executive Office (EO) under the direction of the Executive Director (ED) is in
charge of the daily management of the TASIF under strict procedures as described in the MO.
B.    The EO is in charge of selecting the microprojects to be presented in the Quarterly
Implementation Schedules to the Board in respect of the criteria and procedures set forth in the
MO and of the Annual Investment Program (AIP).
C.    The ED is responsible to manage its program to achieve the goals and objectives set forth
in the AIP. This may require him to recruit consultants and to purchase goods. Within his budget
limitations, and acting as a good housefather, he is therefore responsible to sign contracts on
these issues, and to authorize and sign disbursement orders. The ED is only authorized to sign
contracts and authorize and sign disbursement orders within the threshold. He cannot sign
extensions or change orders to contracts which carry the original total contracts' amount above
that threshold.
D.    In order to be able to disburse the EO will have to open a bank account, at a commercial
banking institution of the ED's choice - with approval of the Board and no-objection of the WB.
E.    The ED will delegate the task of managing the personnel matters to the Finance and
Administration Manager (FAM). He will supervise that task. The FAM will ensure that the SSR
will be fully respected, and in that respect the FAM will organize - after the approval of next
year's program and budget - that all the staff will participate in the setting of the next year's
performance indicators for each of them, as well as evaluating each of the staff against the
previously set performance indicators. Consequently to this evaluation exercise the ED will make
a proposal to the next board meeting concerning staff bonuses, promotions and/or sanctions.
F.    The ED will delegate the task of the preparation of the Annual Investment Program (with
eventual revision of the Global Investment Strategy) to the Investment Planner (IP). The IP will
organize through consultants a special targeting exercise, to identify the highest poverty areas in



- 118 -
the country, in the regions and in the districts with comparative poverty assessment methods. The
targeting is an important exercise to ensure that the objectives of the TASIF are really being met.
G.    The ED will delegate to the Micro-Project Area Managers the task of the promotion, the
identification, the selection, the preparation, the implementation and supervision and the hand-
over of the micro-projects in accordance with the procedures of the MO.
H.    The MP1&2 will further organize through their promotion unit another targeting exercise
(through consultants) which consists in identifying the highest poverty communities within the
highest priority poverty districts. The consultants will then actively promote the project in those
highest priority communities. In the process of promotion, the consultant will also provide
information on how to lower or defy harassment.
I.     The MP1&2 will ensure that micro-projects will be selected in accordance of the
procedures and criteria as described in the MO:
J.     The MP1&2 will ensure that the communities will be actively involved in the entire
process cycle of the micro-projects, from the identification, through the preparation to the
implementation, handover and operation and maintenance of it. Several options degrees of
participation of communities are available to ensure both that the micro-project responds to the
communities' highest needs and that through their participation a sense of ownership develops
which is a large part of the sustainability of the micro-project. Wherever the community lacks
the skills in the micro-project cycle the TASIF can involve consultants.
K.    The communities will participate for approx. 15% to the cost of the micro-project. As
this is indeed a heavy contribution from these poorest communities, a very wide variety of
possibilities should be explored to achieve this goal. Besides financial, labor and or material
contributions other solutions should be acceptable to TASIF, even if this may lead to some un-
desirable side activities.
L.    The micro-projects will need, to be environmentally sound. They should certainly have
no negative effect on the environment, and preferably improve the situation. Sensitive micro-
projects are water and waste water related, surface drainages which can cause erosion, and other
types of micro-projects.
M.    The micro-projects should be cost-effective. This means that an effort has to be put in
to design technical specifications which are less costly, and that a competitive procurement
procedure has to be undertaken. Cost efficiency of scale is not a priority. But it is also important
to ensure that the final quality of the works will be of the best available standards.
N.    The micro-projects should be sustainable. The MP1&2 should ensure that a maintenance
and operations plan is being designed for the output of the micro-project which includes
identification of budgets and how this budgets will be obtained. Solid guarantees for this are
required before approval of the micro-project. If community contributions are required, a cost
recovery mechanism has to be designed and assurances have to be sought that they will be applied
once the micro-project is handed-over to the community or the client.



- 119-
0.    The MP1&2 will ensure that proper supervision will be installed on each of the micro-
projects under implementation. Local supervisors - eventually proposed by the communities - are
preferable. Strict supervision reporting and consequent progress payment procedures will be
installed to enter into the computerized monitoring system of the TASIF.
P.    The ED will ensure, with the assistance of the procurement specialist that all procurement
procedures in the TASIF will be in accordance with WB rules and regulations and with the
specific details as stated in the MO.
Q.    The ED will ensure that the MIS Manager keeps up to date a complex and detailed
Management Information System (MIS) which gathers data on processes and progress for the use
of the different managers in the EO. The MIS is a most important tool for managing this type
of projects. Although a technologically simple project, the management of multiple small funds
delegated to inexperienced and widely dispersed organizations within a country with poor
communication means is a high risk undertaking. A very thorough collection of data will have
to be put in place, with strict reporting procedures and an MIS system which can provide very
up-to-date globalized reporting for the managers. It is important that the managers instill
themselves the discipline to make optimal use of the outputs of the MIS: they are the example
to the lower staff and to the NGO's and communities, and they need the information to ensure
that the project is well managed and can generate the kind of quantities of micro-projects which
can have an impact on the poverty.
R.    The ED will delegate the task of keeping very accurate accounts to the FAM. The FAM
will receive documented justifications for each commitments and expenditures from the MIS
system. Commitments and expenditures without such justification cannot be entered into the
accountancy system. The MIS and the accountancy system will work in parallel, but as two
independent mechanisms. The design of both should allow for easy comparison between them.
S.    The ED will facilitate the regular audits over the TASIF. Bi-annual audits will be
conducted to control the respect of the procedures and the financial rules and regulations of the
project. The audits will be conducted over two quarters of the year, and should produce a report
which can be presented to the board within three months after the end of the second quarter
covered by the audit. This auditing procedure guarantees that the EO cannot abuse the authorities
of micro-project selection, contract signing and disbursement vested in its autonomous status. An
annual audit, consolidation of two bi-annual audits will also be produced.
T.    The ED will produce a commentary to the bi-annual audit to the same board meeting,
certainly when the audits point out irregularities. The ED should organize a competitive bidding
to allow the board to appoint the audits.
U.    The EO will conduct regular impact evaluation exercises, which consist in measuring the
impact of the TASIF program versus its objectives. Indicators will be developed for that purpose.
The EO will study these impact evaluations very carefully and prepare recommendations how
impact can be improved and/or how impact evaluation can be improved. The WB will conduct
impact evaluations over the project as well, and compare notes with the internal impact evaluation
reports.



- 120-
ANNEX J
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL ORGANIZATION OF TASIF
Management Information System Specialist
Consultant to the Tajikistan Social Investnent Fund
Draft Terms of Reference
1.    The Government of Tajikistan will establish the Tajikistan Social Investment Fund
(TASIF) as a mechanism to reduce poverty through the financing of labor-intensive works and
other income-generating microprojects identified and implemented by community-based
organizations. Small private building contractors will be selected competitively to execute
contracts whenever feasible and Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs) will be used to target
poorer segments of the population who have potential to benefit from small income-generation
projects, especially in agriculture production and marketing.
2.    A computerized Management Information System (MIS) is needed to track the large
number of microprojects to be financed by the TASIF. The MIS must be interactive so that
TASIF staff can input information on a day-to-day basis, while also being designed with adequate
security measures. The attributes of the MIS will include the ability to:
o         store basic information on microprojects;
*         track the microproject portfolio through the microproject cycle;
*         record materials and inputs needed for each microproject; and
*         track financial disbursements.
3.    The MIS will enable simplified reports to be created for managers of the TASIF to
facilitate their day-to-day management and to meet reporting requirements of the TASIF Board
and donors participating in the project.
4.    The MIS Specialist will provide technical assistance to the MIS Officer of the TASIF in
order to conceptualize and develop an MIS for the TASIF that meets World Bank specifications
for project effectiveness. The MIS Specialist will be responsible for:



- 121 -
5.    Assessing the information needs of the TASIF, taking into account its administrative and
organizational structure and reporting requirements
6.    Work with the TASIF MIS Officer to conceptualize and develop an MIS for the TASIF
by either adopting an existing system or creating a new one. This is to be done within reasonable
financial boundaries and with cognizance of available local skills and support systems needed to
operate and maintain an MIS in Tajikistan.
7.    Providing specifications on the hardware and software to be procured for the MIS.
8.    Providing guidelines to TASIF on the skills and qualifications needed to maintain the
system.
9.    Advising the MIS Officer who will be responsible for training TASIF staff in operating
and maintaining the system.
10.   Time-frame: It is estimated that the consultant would travel to Tajikistan in December-
January for approximately 2 weeks. This would be followed up by 2-3 times over the subsequent
12 months to guide development, testing and refinement of the MIS.
11.   Qualifications: The consultant will have a strong background in database development
maintenance and be familiar with MIS systems used in similar projects, and software to run such
systems. The consultant will also be experienced in conceptualizing, developing and operating
computerized integrated management information and accounting systems. The consultant will
speak Russian. The best qualified consultant will be experienced in developing and upgrading an
MIS for other social funds.



- 122 -
Annex 6
Draft T.O.R. for the Technical Advisor to the TASIF:
The Technical Advisor to the TAS[F should be a qualitied Public Works andi'or Construction Engineer
with preferably experience in Social Investment Funds or equivalent types oftprojects. He should have
an extensive experience in managing and planning construction and infrastructure type projects with a
multitude of smaller sub-projects of varied natures which are implemented in a widespread geographical
environment. He should preferably have experience in construction management in the former Soviet
Union and in the adaptation to market economy contracting mechanisnis. Experience in organising the
sub-projects with intensive community participatory components is essential.
The Technical Advisor will be in charge of advising on the following fields of expertise
*       procurement and contracting procedures with small and medium small construction
companies and with consultants. It is essential to realise that such contractors and consultants
are either rare or at least inexperienced witih such procedures in Tajikistan, and will therefore
require to be identified, trained, closely supervised and monitored with an objective of capacity
and institution building in the construction sector in Tajikistan;
involvement of implementing agencies as sub-contractors for TASIF. whether consultants,
local associations or institutions, sometimes even local authorities. The TASIF staff has to be
assisted in learning how to delegate work to such organisations. These implementing
organisations are generally also lacking experience in this type of service delivery.
*       the development ofTASIF specific technical specifications, which should correspond to the
local standards and norms, but which should also be designed such that they encourage labour
intensive work methods, which can be implemented with limited means of small contractors
and which should be within the capacities of the communities to supervise and to ensure
maintenance and operations atler microproject implementation;
*       putting in place proper construction management procedures, in line with contractual
conditions (contractors in the former Soviet Union have little experience w&ith such concept), to
ensure:
- potential development of the small and medium contracting business in Tajikistan;
- adequate quality and quantity control on the building sites, through the installation of
qualified and systematic supervision and progress monitoring procedures,
- the installation of adequate hand-over procedures,
- proper maintenance and operations'procedures after hand-over (sustainability).
on the development of the poverty targeting procedures of the TASIF,
*       on the training needs for contractors, consultants, implementing partners as well as for the
Engineering staff of the TAS[F;
*       on the development of the MIS in relation with microproject progress monitoring and
progress payments.
The Technical Advisor will report to the Executive Director and will closely collaborate with the Area
M'vanagers and their staff.
The Technical Advisor vill closely collaborate with the Management Advisor for issues of common
interest.
Annex 7



- 123 -
Draft T.O.R. for the NMana;iement Advisor to the TASIF
The Management Advisor to the TASIF should be an experienced manager, with preferably a
background in construction management projects and with specific interest in administrative
management. He should have experience in similar type projects as SI F's and preferably also experience
in the former Soviet Union. He should have particular experience in delegating tasks through sub-
contracting and in performance evaluation systems.
The 'vanagement Advisor will be in charge ofadvising the TASIF on the following fields of expertise:
delegation of tasks through sub-contracting of ser,ices;
*       identification and training ot'implementring partners to execute these services;
*       setting up of consultancy/N'GO/... rosters;
designing a simple but etl'icient performance evaluation system with incentives for the
TASIF statl.
designing performance evaluation systems for implementing partners and executing
a-encies sub-contracted by TASIF;
assist in the development of the institutional support unit of TASIF;
assist in the development ofthe MIS.
e       assist in the accounting and administrative management of the TASIF;
assist in building a professional work relation between the TASIF and the INGO's.
The Mianagement Advisor will report to the Executive Director and will collaborate with all the
Department Managers. in particular with the Mlanager of the Finance and Administration Department.
The Management Advisor w%ill closelv collaborate with the Tecnical Advisor in fields of common
interest.



- 124 -
ANNEX K
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
Review of NGO Activities in Tajikistan
based on a Desk Study of Reports and other Documents
by Lawrence S. Cumming
BACKGROUND
1.       This review focuses primarily on NGOs which have an interest and programming
capacity that has an economic as well as a social character and impact.(See table 1 for a summary
of all International NGO programs in Tajikistan)
OVERVIEW OF NGO SECTOR
2.        This report deals more with foreign than with national or local NGOs. All available
evidence suggests that local NGOs, to the extent that they exist, tend to be rather new, small and
lacking in experience. Therefore, they would not be in a position to implement projects funded
under the PPAP.
3.        The pre-eminent exception to this rule would be the Pamir Relief and Development
Program (PRDP) which was established by the Aga Khan Foundation. Though young, it operates
with a level of resources not enjoyed by any other Tajikistan NGO. Another exception might be
the national Red Crescent Society which is described as the largest domestic NGO in Tajikistan,
in terms of its membership, with chapters throughout the country.
4.    This fact points up a dilemma for the Bank. On the one hand, circumstances suggest the
need for supporting activities likely to have relatively quick results. On the other, it would be
desirable to build national and local NGO capacity for the longer run. This dilemma might best
be resolved by giving priority support to those international NGOs which demonstrate the most
serious evidence of involvement in building partnership with and in strengthening local and
national NGO bodies.
A.    Networks Between/Among NGOs: In-country Networks
5.    In the wake of the 1992-93 civil war, NGOs and donors working in Tajikistan began to
meet regularly and formed a committee of international organizations. It currently meets every
Monday morning. This initiative was previously convened by the UNHCR but is now being



- 125-
chaired by UNDP. The purpose of this grouping is to share information and, wherever possible,
to co-ordinate action. Apart from the regular weekly donors meeting, the foreign NGOs meet
once a month to discuss issues of concern to them.
6.    There is no indigenous NGO coordinating organization in Tajikistan, though there is an
NGO Resource Center which Counterpart Consortium (CC) has assisted. This is housed in the
same building as Counterpart and shares facilities with that organization.
7.    Counterpart and Save the Children (US) jointly support the NGO Capacity Building
Project which is a training scheme for NGO staff, both those associated with local NGOs and the
locally engaged Tajik staff of foreign NGOs.
B.    Networks in the Region or Beyond
8.    The Project for Economic Reform and Development in Central Asia (PERDCA), though
not itself an NGO, maintains an NGO support function in Central Asia, assisting NGOs to
develop regional contacts. One of its services is Silknet, an electronic network connecting
organizations in Tajikistan and neighboring republics. With assistance from the Eurasia
Foundation and the Soros Foundation, it will continue to install sub-nodes throughout the region.
9.    Counterpart Consortium (CC), with USAID assistance, maintains the Nongovernmental
Organization Support Initiative for Central Asia. (It now has a Tajikistan office and, as noted
above, is actively involved in training.) CC offers training for indigenous NGOs (management
and sustainability), promotes and facilitates information exchange and partnerships and offers a
seed grants program, including "partnership grants" for strengthening capacity to serve members
and "corporate challenge grants" which encourage corporations to contribute matching monies.
To the end of 1995, the Consortium reports that more than 300 Central Asian NGOs have
received training, that a region-wide data base on local NGOs has been formed and is being
continuously updated and that forty nine (49) grants totalling over $350,000 have been awarded
throughout the region.
C.    Current/Planned NGO Projects: Refugee Assistance
10.   Due to the conditions resulting from the civil war (1992-93), the UNHCR has played a
leading role in humanitarian aid to Tajikistan to assist returning refugees and other displaced
persons.
11.    Some examples of NGO assistance to refugees include:
*       a study of the needs of refugees, with particular reference to water and
sanitation which the IRC conducted in August-September, 1993.
*       the Aga Khan Foundation/PRDP humanitarian relief effort. One evaluation
characterized the AKF feeding program as having "literally rescued the
population of Gorno-Badakshan from the threat of famine" and, therefore,
as one of the outstanding examples of NGO response.



- 126 -
*       the SCF (US) assisted some 62,000 refugees and internally displaced persons
in the wake of the civil war to rebuild and rehabilitate housing whilst feeding
some 27,000 brigade workers through food for work projects.
D.      Micro-enterprise/Credit and Small Enterprise Development
12.     The Tajikistan Government has defined micro-enterprises as those having up to nine
(9) employees and small enterprises as having between ten (10) and one hundred and ninety-nine
(199) employees.
13.     Some examples are as follows:
*       SCF (U.S.) has been supporting a group guaranteed lending program
(GGLP) at the village level in Khatlon Region (patterned after the ASA
Program and Grameen Bank in Bangladesh) and has engaged in training for
small enterprise development for women and their families as well as small
business entrepreneurs. The early experience of this program has been quite
positive; for instance, there has been a zero default rate on loans.
i       SCF (U.K.) has sponsored small enterprise development through a
monetization scheme and small scale income generation projects. These have
been specifically directed towards female headed households.
-       The Soros Foundation has provided financial assistance to both SCF (U.S.)
and SCF (U.K.) for their micro-enterprise and credit schemes.
For a period of about five months in early 1995, Mercy Corps International
(MCI) sponsored monetization projects using food donated by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture. Through the mechanism of third-party
agreements, all credits extended under such projects are repaid to local non-
profit organizations and not to MCI.
*       Relief International (RI) has made a contribution through quick impact
projects (QIPs) focusing on women heads of families. All 1,350 women who
had participated in the QIPs subsequently were offered training. Of these,
five hundred and forty (540) had done so by the end of 1995. Ninety percent
(90%) of business plan proposals (goat, sheep and poultry breeding, bread
making, sewing, knitting, soap making and so on) had been accepted as of
that time.
*       Shelter Now International (SNI) has supported capacity in small enterprise
development through on-the-job training and the provision of building
products.
*       Various NGOs have reported on projects which produce goods and materials.
IRC, for instance, has been supporting the rehabilitation of small soap and
shoe production industries.



- 127-
*        MCI has made loans to agricultural enterprises and reports quite favorable
results.
*       AED, in partnership with the US Embassy/Department of Commerce, has
established a Business Initiative Resource Center, though this would appear
to be somewhat beyond the scope of this study. It also, reportedly, benefits
larger businesses rather than small and micro enterprises.
E.       Rehabilitation/Reconstruction - Public Works and Housing
14.     The fact that so many NGOs are involved in public works and the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of physical infrastructure and property is, of course, a direct consequence of the
1992-93 civil war and the conditions under which they first began their Tajikistan programs.
Some examples are:
*       SCF (U.S) took over physical reconstruction from UNHCR (which had
initiated the program). This food for work (FFW) activity is now being
supported by USAID. SCF (US) has been involved in housing and schools
reconstruction projects as well as the clearing of rubble and building of
irrigation ditches, primarily in West Khatlon. It is also providing plastic
sheeting for fruit greenhouses.
e       MCI has taken on both free food distribution and FFW  projects (e.g.
cleaning drainage systems and parks and public facilities in Dushanbe).
e       CARITAS has also been involved in a substantial way (with $1,250,000
funding from European sources) in reconstruction of returning refugees'
houses and the production of housing tiles.
*       The International Organization for Migration (IOM) is involved in village
level disaster prevention and mitigation as well as reconstruction and
rehabilitation in landslide prone mountainous areas of the Panjkent region.
It has co-operated with SCF (US) as well as with SNI in housing
reconstruction. Because of the interest of a company operating a gold mine
in the area in improving its public relations situation, IOM has been able to
involve this firm in a constructive way in support of the project. (Though,
strictly speaking an intergovernmental organization, IOM has a number of
NGO characteristics.)
*       Shelter Now International (SNI) is operating a demonstration facility to
produce appropriate building materials, notably roofing tiles which, it hopes,
will be both less expensive in the long run and safer than the asbestos
sheeting of which much is used.
F.      Water and Sanitation
15.     Water and sanitation projects figure prominently in the programs of the IRC and



- 128-
UNICEF which work as partners in this area. IRC took over a project in the fall of 1994 begun
by Medecins Sans Frontiers (MSF) Belgium and started another such project in Khatlon with
USAID assistance.
16.     A recent evaluation concluded that, although the IRC project had been carried out well,
it did not meet its full potential from a community development point of view. Moreover, it noted
that impact assessment is lacking. This fact may, perhaps, be due in part to IRC's historic
emphasis on relief.
G.      Agriculture, Food Security and Rural Development
17.     Several NGO projects fall under the heading of agricultural development:
*       The AKF/PRDP has a large program of assistance to farmers in Gorno-
Badakshan and has moved from its initial humanitarian relief response to a
developmental one. It is supplying technical assistance and inputs to
independent farmers working land leased by collective farms. New varieties
of wheat appropriate to different geographic, soil and climactic conditions
have been introduced with very positive production results. As part of the
contribution from USAID, the AKF/PRDP is supporting the completion of
the building of the Pamir I electric power facility.
*       The IRC has supported the rehabilitation and resupply of poultry farms in
West Khatlon.
*       The evaluation of AKF/PRDP (mentioned elsewhere) recommends that
attention be given to the enhancement of livestock and also the potential for
cold water fish, silk and wool production in Gorno-Badakshan.
*       German Agro Action (GAA) plays a prominent role and operates in areas of
Tajikistan where other foreign NGOs have little or no presence. With the
assistance of the European Union and the German Government, GAA has
been delivering foodstuffs and other needed supplies in Khodjent and war
affected areas south of Dushanbe since 1994. It has a large seed distribution,
upgrading and multiplication scheme operating principally in the Garm and
Khodjent regions and is proposing a large revolving loan fund. By the time
current project funding expires, it anticipates having benefited 3,900 farmers
directly and a possible total of 80,000 persons indirectly. GAA is working
with emerging private farmers associations which it hopes will eventually
become multi-purpose organizations with the capacity to extend and supervise
loans, offer technical assistance through extension services and operate a
marketing system.
*       CARE International is actively involved in food security and nutrition. It
completed its Tajikistan Emergency Logistics Assistance Program (TELAP)
to distribute emergency medicines and supplies in mid 1994. Together with
the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, and supported by USAID



- 129 -
funding, it conducted an important study (August, 1994). The study
recommended that CARE focus on food distribution programs in particular
areas of need but also that it assist the development of potable water and
irrigation systems.
*       though CARE appears to have been cautious about moving from relief to
development activities and to working with local NGO formations, it is
proposing to begin a relationship with the Dekhan Farmers Associations by
providing training and agricultural inputs.
18.     Several NGOs have sponsored FFW projects is worthy of note. This fact may be not
unrelated to the prominent roles which USAID and US NGOs are playing in Tajikistan. FFW
projects, in MCI's view, are useful for creating employment in the short term but do not promote
sustainability. Interestingly, the aforementioned evaluation of the AKF encourages that agency
to consider the possibility of supporting FFW projects.
H.      Institutional/Organizational Development and Capacity Building
19.     SCF (U.S.) and Counterpart Consortium (CC) have jointly supported a county-wide
project to build the capacity of NGO local staff in project management and training as well as
establishing the NGO Resource Center. The capacity building began with the training of SCF's
own local staff, but now this service is available to the staff of other NGOs, both foreign and
local. The SCF (US) and CC trainers work as a team.
20.     The AKF, whose Tajikistan projects were recently evaluated, is credited with having
established PRDP, the strongest of the national NGOs in the country in terms of its program and
management capacity.
21.     The AKF is proposing, as well, to work with the Khorog State University to upgrade
some of its programs and also to work with four or five universities to improve English language
instruction.
22.     The Independent evaluation of the UNHCR SED projects concludes that "IRC's
particular strength is capacity building". With this in mind, it proposes that IRC concentrate on
replication of its early projects and development of linking enterprises. (Peduzzi, p. 18) In that
this is an area of the most critical importance, IRC's response to this recommendation bears
further examination.
I.       Health
23.     Some NGOs have specialized in health programs. Though this is not a priority for the
proposed Bank initiative, it is worthy of note that some NGOs have chosen to focus on health:
*       RI has made a substantial contribution in this area. A recent evaluation
found, however, that its future may be compromised because the focus of its
work has been with the government health service which is in a severe state
of crisis due to economic and political conditions.



- 130 -
*       SCF (US) has likewise been involved in health programming but has
emphasized the development, strengthening and training of village health
committees. The same evaluation judged these activities to be a more
sustainable approach than RI's.
*       UNICEF began an emergency program in early 1993. In late 1993 it
conducted a rapid assessment study of the situation and needs of women and
children in Tajikistan. UNICEF's concerns center on the health and nutrition
of women and children. Currently, UNICEF is offering support to a variety
of clinics and hospitals in order to keep as many as possible in operation.
24.     Some of these agencies with a concentration in health, it should be added, have considerable
demonstrated capacity in other areas of programming, some of which fit within the Bank's designated
priorities
25.     It should be noted as well that some of the emerging Tajikistan NGOs are showing an interest
in health. This is most notably true of women's and environmental organizations which are, respectively,
concerned with women's and environmental health issues.
J.      Civil Society
26.     Though most of the international NGO activity in the immediate wake of the civil war was
concerned with emergency relief followed by reconstruction, there are NGOs which have demonstrated
an interest in the question of what can be done to promote the growth of civil society.
*     The Counterpart Consortium, together with the American Legal
Consortium, co-sponsored a regional conference on NGOs and the
Law (October 29 to November 4, 1995). Representatives of seventy-
five (75) NGOs and governments from all five countries attended.
Topics included the relationship between NGOs and government in
a civil society, an appropriate legal framework for promoting the
NGO sector, transparency by both NGOs and government,
registration procedures and tax status for non-profits. The conference
provided and opportunity for country-specific NGO/government
groupings to develop recommendations for legislative reform and
improved administrative procedures.
*     The Counterpart Consortium/SCF NGO Capacity Development
training project has been noted above.
*     The Soros Foundation has stated its intent to support projects to
extend and promote human rights and to develop the media. Soros
does not have its own program but provides support to other NGOs
which have a program development and management capacity. The
Soros Foundation works throughout the former Soviet Union (FSU).
It makes seed grants to enable other initiatives to start. Then it
moves on to other projects.



- 131 -
27.      During the three years it has worked in Tajikistan, Soros assisted IRC, MSF, Relief
International, SCF US and UK and Human Rights International with contributions. Even the UNHCR,
though clearly not an NGO, received an initial contribution from the Foundation towards its work in the
post civil war period.
K.                Analysis of NGO Operating Environment in Tajikistan: Political
28.      From the top levels of Government, there is official receptivity to NGOs bringing relief and
development assistance to Tajikistan - notwithstanding varying degrees of enthusiasm from ministry to
ministry. The Government has responded positively to the idea that the a substantial portion of the
proposed PPAP to be established through the World Bank loan would be devoted to NGO projects that
have the potential for "scaling-up".
29.     However, there has apparently been, it should be added, a recent demonstration of alleged
government interference in the election of a the President of a national NGO, the Tajikistan Red Crescent
Society. (The Red Crescent Society is the largest national NGO with branches throughout the country.
One of its essential principles of operation is independence from the state.) Because of this alleged
interference, the association called an extraordinary general meeting of the members. In order to ensure
the freedom and independence of the meeting, invited official observers of both the ICRC and IFRC were
present. The fact that interference evidently took place in the initial election and that international
observers were brought in must be regarded as a disturbing sign, notwithstanding that a reversal was
secured in this particular instance. An indigenous and autonomous Tajikistan NGO without this kind of
international backing might well have had a more difficult experience.
L.      Legal
30.      Because the legal situation of NGOs in Tajikistan has been reasonably well documented, the
following will simply touch upon some salient features of the law and the regulatory environment.
31.      The principal laws which apply to NGOs are the Constitution of the Republic of Tajikistan,
which recognizes the concept of pluralism and the right of citizens to associate, and the Law of Public
Associations (1991), which defines a public association as "a voluntary unit created by the free will of
citizens who have united together on the basis of common interests". The definition encompasses a wide
range of possibilities from trade unions to political parties, mass movements, associations of women,
veterans and invalids as well as scientific, cultural and sporting organizations and so on.
32.     The breadth of the field of possibilities is both a virtue and a possible problem. Some observers
feel that the law lacks precision and a sense of the differences between one kind of organization and
another. They note, in particular, the substantial distinctions to be made between a political party or a
trade union and a voluntary association. On the other hand, they would not want to see the law become
too restrictive. It is important to note that the Law on Public Associations is currently under review and
amendments are likely to be presented within a few months time.
33.     NGOs, both foreign and local, must register with the Ministry of Justice under the heading of
"public associations". There are now over two hundred (200) "NGOs" thus registered, though only a
small portion these are concerned with relief and/or development, and the majority of those are oriented
to social welfare. There does, however, appear to be a significant number of environmental NGOs,
perhaps reflecting a serious degree of concern about the state of the natural environment.



- 132 -
34.      The information which an NGO wishing to register with the Ministry of Justice must supply
is as follows:
*    its name, purposes and goals;
*    its structure and the territory within which it will carry out its activities;
*    the rules for granting and terminating membership;
*    the rights and obligations of members;
*    the rules for forming governing bodies and structural subdivisions and the terms of
office;
*    its sources of funds and other property;
*    the procedures for amending its charter;
*    the procedures for terminating activity and disposing of remaining property
35.      The registration fees for an international public association amounts to $260 (US); organizations
operating throughout the Republic must pay the equivalent of $80, and those operating in a rayon or local
area, $55. Public associations representing invalids and children are exempt, and associations of women,
veterans and youth pay fifty percent (50%) of the fees applicable. For most foreign NGOs, the fee is not
a problem. Given the amount of cash available to most local citizens and organizations, however, the fees
represent a hardship. Effectively, therefore, a great many local public associations will require foreign
support even to pay their registration fees.
36.      In the event of denial of registration, the right of appeal to the Supreme Court exists.
37.      As regards taxes, the Public Associations Law specifies that Public Associations must pay taxes
on "entrepreneurial activities". Under a decree of the Supreme Council of the Republic, there are certain
exceptions to this rule, including enterprises and institutions related to associations of invalids, museums,
libraries, theaters and so on. Rates of income taxes may be reduced where profits are devoted to
charitable purposes.
38.      In the event of an international treaty whose provisions are different from local legislation, the
former will prevail.
39.     It should be added that organizations operating in a particular region or locality must register
with the department of justice of the particular regional council of people's deputies.
40.      The formal legal requirements for establishing an foreign-based or international NGO in
Tajikistan are minimal. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Department of International Organizations and
International Law is the body which registers foreign NGOs. (There is no requirement that local NGOs
register with the Foreign Ministry.) The organization must submit the following under cover letter:
(i)  its by-laws or charter;



- 133 -
(ii) a statement of its goals, objectives and activities in Tajikistan and;
(iii) a written mandate from headquarters for the organization's senior official posted to the
country.
41.      Approval by the Foreign Ministry can be granted very quickly. The foreign NGO then has
access to free consular services and many privileges available to the diplomatic corp. Some NGO
representatives have observed that the Justice Ministry tends to be the controlling face of government,
whereas the Foreign Ministry adopts a more facilitating stance with regard to the registration of foreign
NGOs.
42.      Finally, as regards micro and small enterprise development, there appears to be no legal
problem in organizing and registering businesses. It is worthy of mention here since some of the foreign
NGOs are sponsoring and encouraging micro and small enterprise activities.
M.       Regulatory
43.      It is in the administration of the law where some NGOs observe or experience difficulties. For
instance, as noted above, some have found attitudes held by some Justice officials to be "dirigiste". On
the other hand, a senior official of the same Ministry confirmed to this author that the policy of the
Government is to encourage a vibrant NGO sector which can help to address the severe socio-economic
problems which the country is facing.
44.      The experience of local NGOs in securing the registration of their charters varies considerably.
Some speak of the procedures as being complicated and cumbersome, of having had to wait two years
or more and of having had to submit answers to questions not asked at the outset. There is a feeling that
"city NGOs" with access to money and government offices have an easier time than rural ones, and
especially those which represent the very poor. One NGO representative claimed that officials sometimes
seek bribes. Other organizations, however, appear to have enjoyed a relatively easy process. It may be
that some types of associations, those which represent disabled people for instance, find more ready
acceptance because their categories are specifically recognized in law.
45.      Taxation matters are the source of a good deal of concern for NGOs, both foreign based and
local. Notwithstanding that the Public Associations Law appears to restrict taxation to "entrepreneurial
activities" that might be carried on public associations - and hence profits earned - there does appear to
be considerable confusion regarding how the law is to be interpreted. Several NGO representatives
interviewed in the course of the May, 1996 Mission spoke of their fear that their revenues, regardless
of source or purpose, will be taxed. This has led some to operate on a cash system rather than through
a bank. Whilst most registered NGOs appear not to be paying taxes, this uncertainly is obviously not very
satisfactory, and clarification is needed. The problem appears to be that a distinction between profits
earned from business activity on the one hand and revenues generated from charitable giving and official
donors on the other may not be well understood. There would also appear to be an element of confusion
about national pension plan contributions. This whole area of taxation and related matters is of concern
and will need to be followed carefully.



- 134 -
N.      Successful Project Completion by Sector: Small Enterprise Development
46.     Quite promising results have been reported from small enterprise credit programs. As one
example, the SCF (US) Group Guaranteed Lending Program has had a repayment rate of 100 per cent
(as of mid 1995). During its visit to Tajikistan, the World Bank Mission was informed that MCI expects
a 95 percent (95%) repayment rate on loans it has extended.
47.     A recent Independent Evaluation of the UNHCR supported SED projects found that:
*   the IRC soap making project was economically viable and easily replicable and that the
products were produced in a cost effective and technologically appropriate manner.
(Peduzzi, op. cit.)pp. 8-9) The USAID PVO evaluation also found this project
"impressive". (Wenger et al., op. cit., p. 13).
*   the IRC poultry project farms had the potential to be economically viable by the Spring
of 1996 and replicable, though it raised questions as to their sustainability in light of
inflation. (pp. 10-11) As added endorsement, the USAID PVO evaluation commented
very favorably on this project. (p. 12).
*   the IRC's oil production project is economically viable and profitable as long as cotton
seed and electricity are available. Profitability will be enhanced by the production of
purified oil. In a stable economic environment oil press enterprises should be sustainable.
They should also be replicable. (pp. 12-13)
*    the IRC shoe masking facility is less viable than the soap factory though with low cost
sewing machines and home based production, successful shoe making enterprise should
be replicable. (pp. 14-15)
3   the RI SED Training Program for Village Women evaluation noted that further training
will likely be required to reinforce that already given, that trainees had "demonstrated a
reasonably fair comprehension of the (business) concepts" but that "the biggest obstacle
facing the women is marketing" and that "another possible obstacle . . . is the
procurement of raw materials". (pp. 21-22)
48.     Another study of enterprise development (Pruyne, op. cit., p. 17) proposed to UNDP that this
project be evaluated for potential replication, and if positive, that it be expanded to other parts of
Tajikistan beyond its present base in Khatlon. Without prejudging the outcome of the evaluation, the study
was evidently expressing a vote of confidence in the merits and efficacy of credit schemes aimed at
women.
49.     In the judgement of the US PVO evaluation, some of the most outstanding among the physical
building and rehabilitation projects were:
*     the IRC Water and Sanitation program which put potable water within reach of 40,000
beneficiaries



- 135 -
*      the SCF (US) FFW program which provided shelter for some 100,000 people
0.       Rural Development
50.     As noted above, the AKF/PRDP initiative has been ranked highly by the evaluation
commissioned by World Learning Inc. (the agency administering USAID granted funds for support of
U.S. NGOs working in Tajikistan).
51.     PRDP, with technical assistance from AKF, has placed a high priority on institutional
development to ensure continuity of progress and replicability of results. . . By any objective standard
or comparison of results with similar efforts elsewhere, the performance of PRDP has been outstanding.
(Fort, op.cit., pp. 1-2 and 10)
P.      Capacity Building
52.     The capacity development efforts of the AKF and its local counterpart, the PRDP also scored
very highly by this same evaluation. In fact, the evaluation thought the level of intemal competence has
reached such a high level that the PRDP ought now to redirect its capacity development efforts to
strengthening other local organizations. (Ibid.)
53.     According to another evaluation, the SCF (US) was worthy of recognition. Through its
emphasis on village health committees and its projects which involve local participation in management,
it supports the goal of sustainability. Moreover, it does all of this within a reasonable cost structure.
(Wenger, et al., op. cit., pp. 17-19)
Q.      Reliance on external funding sources
54.     Given the political/economic situation of Tajikistan, it is difficult to imagine there being much
potential, for some time to come, to move away from substantial reliance on foreign funding. Some forms
of program activity, however, do involve less external funding than others. Revolving loan funds, for
instance, maximize local effort and recycle money within the economy.
R.      Project Sustainability
55.     Inflation has been mentioned as a major factor. Political and social stability are key elements
of sustainability.
56.     The 1995 Feasibility Study on Enterprise Development makes the point that sustainability, at
least in the agricultural area, may be enhanced by giving in-kind contributions (seeds, fertilizers, fuel and
the like) with repayment pegged to agricultural output calculated in hard currency.
57.     Another of the factors contributing to project sustainability is the gestation and implementation
periods required. This is an issue that the Bank will need to consider in relation to any expectation of
quick return. An evaluation of the UNHCR's Tajikistan small enterprise development projects is
instructive when it calls attention to the contradiction between quick impact and long term development.
58.     Conflict resolution and peace building are matters of urgent need. Though virtually all NGOs



- 136-
claim to be non-discriminatory as far as employment and other project benefits are concerned, few have
explicit and practiced strategies for addressing social conflict. The USAID PVO evaluation notes,
however, that the SCF (US) has "been among the leading practitioners of the art". The May, 1996 Bank
Mission found a general awareness of the problems of social conflict among NGOs with which it met,
though it did not detect much NGO programming activity in the area. This having been said, there is a
UNDP sponsored pilot project operated by UN volunteers. (An evaluation of the project was underway
at the time of the Mission's visit.)
S.      Staff capacity
59.     There is an abundance of well educated and talented local people available in Tajikistan.
Though most of these are not experienced in the design and management of development projects and
programs, many have found work with NGOs and have proved themselves very adaptable.
60.     Because of the conditions of living and working in Tajikistan, foreign NGO staff have tended
to stay for rather short periods of time, thus contributing to a turnover problem. This issue has been
complicated by the change in role experienced as a result of coming to the country as relief agencies and
more recently having tried to make a transition to development. The staff who are suitable for a relief
operation are often not those most appropriate for a development program.
T.      Transition from Relief to Development
61.     The shift from relief to development is frequently not an easy one for NGOs whose orientation
and experience is in relief programming. Even though these agencies may be extremely professional and
competent in what they do, and though they are able to employ some needed expertise for development
projects, they do not necessarily have the broader institutional awareness and support capacity which more
seasoned development NGOs possess and use to good effect. This experiential gap showed itself in such
areas as public participation in the planning, design and management of projects. Some organizations lack
an intuitive and methodological grasp of how to proceed, simply because it is not part of their experience.
U.      Geographical Limitations
62.     The other impediment is very much related to the foregoing point. Most of the present NGO
projects are to be found in areas where the 1992-93 civil conflict occurred. These, in other words, are
the parts of the country where their experience has been acquired. As a result, NGO relief, reconstruction
and development projects are unevenly distributed throughout Tajikistan. "Scaling-up" through replication
of activities in other areas, and, more especially, starting entirely new activities in new areas, are risky
options and are steps which most NGOs would take very cautiously. The presence of NGOs in certain
regions but not in others is an additional problem when it comes to distributing activities and benefits in
an equitable fashion throughout the country. Moreover, this is a problem which is unlikely to be entirely
solved in the short run.
V.      Factors Contributing to/Constraining Scaling-up
63.     Money is an obvious factor. Stable or unstable economic conditions constitute another set of
factors. If prices of inputs and/or products vary wildly or unpredictably, they negatively affect
investment, production and sales and hinder any consideration of "scaling-up".



- 137 -
64.     The management capacity of NGOs themselves. On the surface, there is no reason to doubt that
the organizations proposing "scaled-up" activities can manage what they claim to be able to do. However,
the ability of each organization to manage and be accountable for projects undertaken is something that
can be addressed closer to the time of actual decisions.
65.     In addition to management capacity are the questions of orientation and expertise. These too
are aspects that need careful assessment when considering potential projects to support. One general
observation is that most of the foreign NGOs operating in Tajikistan came in an emergency relief role
during or after the 1992-93 civil conflict. Some of these are organizations which have evolved over many
years both a developmental and an emergency response capacity and practice. Historically, however,
others have been known almost exclusively as relief organizations. In the Tajikistan context, some have
advanced farther than others in redirecting their programs to development.
W.      Examples of "Scaling-up" Activities
66.     A reading of various reports on NGO activities in Tajikistan would suggest a number of
possibilities. Micro-enterprise development assisted through credit schemes is one such. The SCF (US)
Group Guaranteed Lending Program, for instance, has proved so successful in Khatlon Region that the
agency is considering replicating it in other parts of the country. The AKF Fund for Economic
Development is presently considering the establishment of a small credit scheme to begin in Gorno-
Badakshan and, depending on experience, expand to other parts of Tajikistan.
RESULTS/CONCLUSIONS: MEASURES TO ENSURE EFFECTIVE BANK/NGO
COLLABORATION
67.     Representatives of the foreign NGO community in Tajikistan have, by and large, had no
experience working with the World Bank; the Government of Tajikistan has had little more; and NGOs
and the GOT have, to date, had what might be termed a distant relationship. There will, therefore, have
to be effective means of communication and co-ordination between and among the parties and some
deliberate mutual confidence-building.
68.     Because the proposed loan will be provided from the Bank to the GOT, both parties will have
to agree on the basic terms of the agreement and the purposes for which the money will be spent.
Government, for its part, will have to be satisfied that the projects reflect the best possible national
priorities, and the Bank will need to ensure consistency with its own purposes as well as probity and
accountability.
69.     Notwithstanding the tripartite nature of the relationship which will have to be worked out, there
is much to be said for an "arm's length" project management facility. Indeed, the credibility of the
mechanism, at least in the eyes of participating NGOs and perhaps others in addition, may well depend
on this arrangement. The facility will need to be and be seen to be honest, efficient and competent.
Though it will have to adhere to the policies laid down and agreed upon and be accountable for its
actions, it will need to be free from day-to-day interference.
70.     The possible contradiction between this sort of "arm's length" facility and the desirability of
developing capacity within Government is one that is sufficiently obvious as to require comnment. Given
all the problems of setting up a mechanism within the GOT which would satisfy the tests suggested by
the foregoing point, and which could be able to operate quickly, one is led to the conclusion that this



- 138-
relatively short-term PPAP will need an independent management. Of course, all parties will need to
agree.
71.         Since what is proposed is largely uncharted territory, at least in Tajikistan, experience will need
to be assessed and, if necessary, plans amended. An NGO advisory body could be a very useful device
to provide needed input whilst reassuring the participating organizations.
TABLE 1: NGOS IN TAJIKISTAN AT A GLANCE.
ORGANIZATION           PROGRAM DESCRIPTION                                           SECTOR           REGION        SOURCE
OF
FUNDING
Aid coordination Unit   Enhancement of Government's capacity to manage and utilize   Capacity         Country       UNDP
extemal assistance through establishment of the aid coordination    Building  wide          World
Unit                                                                                        Bank
Academy for            Short term in-country and in the US training for senior       Multiple         Country       USAID
Educational            government and private sector officials in epidemiology, legal                 wide
Development            reform, privatization and agriculture.
European Union Food   Monitoring: a) reception of flour; b) distribution of flour and  Food           Country       E.U.
Aid Monitoring         bread c)payment of counterpart funds and use of CPF in the                     wide
agriculture sector
American Council for    Send students to study in the USA. 1 Secondary Schools, 2-   Education        Country       USA
Collaboration in       Undergraduate, 3-Graduate, 4-Fullbright and 5-Short-term                       wide
Education Language     Research.
Studies.
Aga Khan Foundation    Education and Health Sector Reform: To bring about change in    Education,
the health and education systems and enable their provision in a    Industry, Non-
sustainable manner.                                          food, Energy,
Enterprise Support Fund: To provide credit and technical      Food,
assistance to small entrepreneurs in GBAO to create employment   Agriculture
and generate income.
Summer English Language Program: To upgrade capacity of
approximately 30 mid career professionals. If successful, the
program may be extended next year.
University of Khorog. Improve the English Language teaching
capacity at the university plan its future to enable it to become a
regional center on the issues of mountain area living.
Reactivation of Industrial Units. Help restart local industrial
units by providing technical and fmancial assistance.
Humanitarian Assistance: Provide essential non-food items
(shoes, clothing, coal, medicine and educational supplies.
Energy Development: Help complete the Pamir one station in
Khorog, GBAO to provide energy for domestic and industrial
consumption.
Humanitarian Assistance-Food. Provide humanitarian food
assistance to people of GBAO
Agriculture Reform Program: To improve the productivity of
farmers and lands in GBAO and to develop and test a model for
replication in other parts of Tajikistan.                                                               l
BASICS                 Expanded Immunization Program: I-Workshops and seminars 2-   Health            Country      USAID
Monitoring of cold chain system 3-Assessment and survey; 4-                   wide
Technical supply+ assistance.



- 139-
Central Asia           Yavan Prison, Supplemental Feeding: Food aid for 900         Health,          Khatloon,    UK Global
Development Agency    Prisoners in Yavan Prison                                     education,       Dushanbe,   Partners,
Clothing Distribution: Distribution of clothing primarily    Refugee and     Khojent      World
targeting widows, orphans, IDPS and those living in rural areas    non food               Opportuniti
whose homes have been destroyed.                            assistance,                   es Int'l,
English Language Center: Beginner to advanced classes. Project   communi-                 Self funded
is self sustaining with goal of providing locals with English  cation,
language skills, especially for business and NGO development.
Electronic Mail. Provision of Email access to local and
Intemational NGOs, local universities, businesses and
individuals. Public access node is currently in Dushanbe and will
be expanded. Goal is to help Tajikistan citizens
communicate with the rest of the world.
CARE Intemational      Tajikistan Vulnerable Group Assistance Program: Distribution of   Food, SED   Republican   USDA
food to a)Women headed large households b) Pregnant and     and              Subordinat   /CARE
lactating mothers.                                          Agriculture      ion &        Germany
Leninsky Farmers Association Support Program: Private                        Khatdoon
farmers' support project in Tajikistan: Provide seeds, technical
support, fertilizers and other inputs.
CARITAS                Kabodiaon Project ]-Resettlement of refugees through         Multiple         Khatloon     Caritas
reconstructing (roofing) destroyed houses;2- Producing of
cement tiles; 3-Small enterprise development, and 4-
Humanitarian help.
Coordinating Child     Market Economy and Business Courses: I-Courses for Children
Center for             2- Training of teachers and 3-Holding mass competition.
Intemational           Pre-and Post NIDS Surveys 1- Monitoring of medical facilities
Development of the     2- Pem and post NIDs survey of mass campaigns for polio
Republic of Tajikistan    eradication and diphtheria control.
Legal Education: Training of secondary school principles; 2-
Public campaigns, and 3 Protection of children's rights.
Counterpart            NGO Capacity Building Training Program: I-Train local NGOs    Capacity        Country      USAID
Consortium             in management; 2 provide NGO resource Center 3- Provide      Building         wide
small grants for NGO start ups and projects.
Health sector reform and provision of emergency supplies
Govemment of           Rehabilitation of the disabled                               Health           Subordinat   German
Germany                                                                                             ion and       Govemmen
Badakshan   t
Government of India    Banking and Computer training: National Institute of Bank    Education        Country     Indian
Management, Puna India.                                                      wide         Governmen
International          Protection of detainee and returning IDPs; provision of      Multiple         Republican   Multiple
Committee of the Red   emergency food and medical supplies                                           Subordinat   national
cross                                                                                               e and         societies
Badakshan   and ECHO
Intemational           West Tajikistan Medical Aid: Medical Kits for Central District  Health, Food,    Republican   National
Federation of Red      hospitals and general city hospitals and matemity.           non-Food        Subordinat   Societies
cross                  West Tajikistan Elderly Support: Six months rations                          e,            and ECHO
Relief West Tajikistan and Dadakhan: 10 public canteens for the              Khadoon,
elderly, orphans, homeless; clothing shoes, blankets for needy in            Badakshan
mountainous areas of Central Tajikistan, victims of natural
disasters.
Intemational           Transportation of IDPs who fled to Badakhshan in 1992 back to    Multiple    Leninabad,   USAID
Organization of        their homes in Dushanbe and Khatloon                                         Khatlon
Migration              Adaptive resettlements Pilot Project. Facilitate the resettlement
of five villages in Panjkent District exposed to natural hazards
and high risk for disasters



-140-
International Rescue   Water and Sanitation: Installation and repair of pumps       Health and       Republican   UNDP
Committee              Poultry Farming: Provide technical support and training to three    SED       Subordinat
farms in Vaksh, Kobodian and Kumsani. Provision of chickens,                 e,
feed, vaccines, medicines and fuel                                           Khadoon
Soup and Oil Production. Provide technical support to 13 IRC
created soap factories and expand operations to other regions;
assist in legal registration of businesses.
Shoe and Leather Project: Establish a small scale leather
production facility in Kumsanir to facilitate the production of
shoes and clothing in the Khadoon Province.
Women's Marketing Organizations: Establish female owned and
operated marketing organizations; provide business training
Mercy Corps            Distribution of Used Clothing and Seeds to institutions      Non-food        Rep.          Private
International          Free Food Distribution/ Food for Work to vulnerable groups in    Employment   Subordinat   Donations,
institutions and handicapped associations. Over 90,000      Food             e,           USDA
recipients/650 institutions/10 food for work projects.                       Khadoon,
Badakshan
Orphans, Refugees      Refugee Assistance Project                                   Multiple        Republican   ORA
and AID                                                                                                          (Swiss,
USA,
Germany)
UNHCR
Pharmacies Sans        PSF started its activities in Tajikistan in June 1995. Activities  Health    Rep.          European
Institute              consist of distributing medicines and medical supplies in Western            Khatloon,    Union
RT                                                                           Leninabad
Relief International   Health assistance in areas of active conflict (training and  Health and      Rep.          Dutch
provision of medical supplies to local field physical health posts)   Non Food and   Khatloon  governmen
SED                          t
SCF US                 Food for Work (Housing canal cleaning, rubble clearance);    Health,         Khatdoon      Soros
school feeding (316 schools, students of class 1-4, 76000   Refugee                       Foundation
beneficiaries.                                              Assistance,                   ,USAID,
Child survival and reproductive Health.                     Food,                         USDIA,U
Internal transport, storage and housing. This project is    Employment,                   NICEF,
supplementary to USDA 95 program.                           Education                     UNHCR,
Micro-credit program for women.                             Microcredit,                  UNWFP,
Reconstruction of schools                                   shelter                       Dutch
Housing Reconstruction.                                                                   Govemmen
Economic survey of bazaar and household economy.                                          t
NGO capacity building
Shelter Now                                                                         Multiple        Republican   UNDP,
International                                                                                       Region        private
donors,
UNDP
TACIS Technical        Identification of use for food aid counterpart funds                         Country       E.U.
Assistance for         Establishment of Advisory Unit for Agriculture               Agriculture,    wide
Commonwealth of        Training of university professors in teaching economics,     Food,
Independent States     marketing and finance.                                       forestry,
Training in management in Khodjent Center for               Education,
Entrepreneurship and Management. Tajik stat University.     Energy,
Strategy and planning for Agriculture sector.               Infrastructure,
Improvement to transport infrastructure and transport regulating    Transport
framework.



- 141 -
United Nations        Setting up a policy unit to look after the interests of women,  Economic   Country      UNDP
Development Program    developing gender sensitization program, strengthening local  Development    wide
voluntary organizations. Assistance to women to establish small
business, empowernent and training of women through women's
center.
Assistance to women to establish small business, empowerment
and training of women through women's center.
NGO capacity building. Small enterprise development including
oil, leather soup and poultry. Large scale cultural and sport
activities. Developing region wide network of youth clubs.
Extension of the project to cover wider geographical area and
expansion of activities to complement those going in Khatloon
and Dushanbe. Collecting and publishing information on Human
Development annually.
Establishment of internet services. Providing TA through
fielding of UN specialists in various branches of statistics.
USAID                 USA based, regional and in-country seminars                Health                       USA
Child and mother care, hospital partnerships.
United Nations World                                                             Food            Gorno        Various
Food Program                                                                                     Badakshan
Vision International  Construction of an eye hospital which will be self sustaining and   Health  Khaloon,    ECHO
self supporting referral regional eye care facility, incorporating         Republican
training of opthamological health workers and early detection of           Region
eye diseases. The hospital will be located in Dushanbe serving
the republic



- 142 -
ANNEX L
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
KEY INDICATORS FOR MONITORING AND INTEGRATED EVALUATION
INTRODUCTION
1.         An independent evaluation of the Project would assess overall performance against
its objectives of (a) impact on household incomes and (b) capacity building. It would provide a
comprehensive and independent analysis of the results of the projects and the efficiency of the
use of available resources, and derive lessons to be learned. The evaluation is designed so as to
ensure both that its findings are independent and reliable, and also that it is conducted in a
participatory way (involving both implementors and beneficiaries) that will maximize learning.
2.         Such an evaluation has particular importance for a pilot project with the express aim
of charting a path for expanded future investments in poverty alleviation, in a country where the
Bank has as yet little implementation experience. An evaluation, conducted at mid term and
completion, would enable three key things: (i) ensure at mid-term that lessons learnt in the first
Project component are consolidated and incorporated in the second; and (ii) provide a "lessons
learned" context for the preparation of a follow-up project based on the second component, and
(iii) provide important pointers for future more specialized sector work including infrastructure,
health, education and micro-credit.
3.         The overall evaluation would verify and integrate the results of separate evaluations
of the individual components and sub-components of the Project (although its scope would not
necessarily be restricted by them), and on the results of monitoring incorporated in each
component. In order to allow this to happen, key indicators need to be established that can be
measured in a compatible fashion across both components of the Project at three points in time:
baseline, mid-term and end-of-project. For this reason, the evaluation is termed "integrated".
The remainder of this annex covers the three related topics of key objective indicators, the
conduct of the integrated evaluation, and monitoring indicators.
OBJECTIVE INDICATORS
4.         Key objective indicators would be measured and maintained by the Project in order
to track, in a consistent and comparable fashion, the essentials of performance against objectives.
The key objective indicators are summarized below in Table 1, and discussed in the following
paragraphs. The first Project objective of impact on the incomes of the poor would be measured
across all sub-components by five key indicators, of which two would indicate the extent to which
this objective has been met in a cost effective and participatory fashion. In addition, each sub-



- 143 -
Table 1: Summary of indicators for integrated evaluation
First component                                Second
Component
Poverty Impact           Shelter      Micro-        Female headed   Agricultur   Future          Microproject
Objective Indicators                  credit        households        al reform     NGO          and capability
.__________________  ____________             __________    program s    building
Food security and              x             x              x              x             x              x
nutrition
Clothes and shoes              x             x              x              x             x              x
Shelter and fuel               x x           x                             x             x              x
Cost effectiveness             x             x              x              x             x              x
Community participation        x             x              x              x             x              x
Specific Indicator (I)   Shelteri        Uptake      No of            Channels      To  be         To be determined
(active     participating    completed,    determined
portfolio)    FHH            command
area realized
Specific Indicator (2)   Vulnerale    Rouseh         H ousehold       Land area     To be        To be deterned
groups        incomes      incomes           developed     determined
benefiting                                   for
production,
households
benefiting
Specific Indicator (3)   Technology     Productive   Household food   Change in     To  be       To be determined
adoption       enterprises   productivity   food          determined
(tiles)                                     productivity
&
production
Capacity building
Indicators
Institutional capacity                               _ i    i              x             x              x
Local, NGO, government         x                            i              x             i              i
staff trained, proposals
received
TASIF staff trained                                                                                     x



-144-
component would be evaluated according to three specific indicators relating to the strategic entry
point selected (e.g. shelter, micro-credit, agricultural production of female-headed households,
agricultural reform), that address in particular aspects of impact, coverage and sustainability. The
second Project objective of capability building would be measured by two general indicators
across all components, with a third relating specifically to the training of TASIF staff. Thus each
sub-component would be evaluated on ten indicators, of which seven are common to the Project,
and three specific to the sub-component. An additional capacity-building indicator is included
for the second component. These indicators, and the specific measures and instruments to
compile them, would be refined in a pilot baseline exercise .
A.    Poverty Impact Indicators
5.    It is difficult in situations such as Tajikistan to measure household incomes reliably,
owing to the importance of non-monetary items. The social assessment pointed to three key
proxy indicators that were highly sensitive to household poverty levels and appear suitable for
generalization across all sub-components (Annex F). Food security and nutrition is the single
best measure of household economic status and purchasing power, food being the largest budget
item for poor households. Food insecurity needs to be measured in its dimensions of incidence,
depth and seasonality. The nutritional status of children can be measured by standard rapid
survey techniques, such as MUAC (mid upper-arm circumference) used extensively by UNICEF.
(Two sub-components whose design permits the direct measurement of household incomes on
a small scale are identified in the next section).
6.     Clothing, especially shoes for children, is the second priority of poor households,
particularly in areas subject to winter cold.
7.     Shelter and fuel is the third key household incomes proxy indicator. The availability of
domestic fuel for cooking, and for heating during the winter months, is a critical concern of poor
families.  Local scales should be constructed for standards of overcrowding in sleeping
accommodation, together with a simple score for shelter quality (leaky roof, no windows, no
flooring etc.). An indicator of household durables (beds, mattresses etc.) might be added.
8.     A common or compatible calculation of cost-effectiveness would show  cost per
beneficiary for certain types of specified or measured benefits.
9.     An indicator of community participation would show the scale and intensity of local
involvement in the planning, implementation, financing and monitoring of programs. Community
participation is seen primarily as an approach rather than an objective. However, a participatory
approach was an important criterion for the selection of programs for scaling up in the first
Project component and is expected to be a prominent feature of TASIF microprojects in the
second component. Moreover, the close relationship between local powerlessness and poverty
revealed by the social assessment points to community participation in poverty alleviation
activities, together with institutional capacity-building (discussed below), as being an important
indicator of social capital formation.



- 145 -
B.     Specific program indicators
10.    The performance of each program would be evaluated according to three key indicators
specific to the objectives of that program. While each program would have its range of additional
indicators for monitoring and individual internal evaluations, the three specific indicators are
selected primarily to measure the aspects of coverage, delivery of the specific benefit, and longer
term sustainability.
11.   The shelter program has as its main objective to assist 2,000 returned families with
shelter in five districts. Beneficiary selection would ensure the inclusion of the neediest and most
vulnerable groups, including female headed households and ethnic minorities.  Locally-
manufactured tiles would be used in place of asbestos sheeting. The three specific indicators
therefore measure (i) the quantity of shelter improved as a result of the project and the number
of households benefiting, in proportion to the overall identified need (ii) the inclusion of poor and
vulnerable categories of households as beneficiaries; and (iii) the adoption of tile technology.
12.    The micro-credit program aims to extend a group savings and credit guarantee scheme
to 3,750 poor women in 250 groups, and to build institutional capacity. The three specific
indicators would measure (i) the active loan portfolio, comprising the number of beneficiaries,
the loan volume and the repayment rates, indicating the extent to which poor women are able to
access the benefit; (ii) the change in household incomes as a result of the project, and (iii) the
creation of productive micro-enterprises as a result. The measurement of household incomes,
impractical for application across the Project, is feasible within the restricted context of this
program by virtue of its regular monitoring, and will allow testing of simple and inexpensive
methods of investigating household budgets. The creation of productive micro-enterprises is an
important indicator of the future sustainability and replicability, showing the productive use of
household credit as investment, rather than for short-term consumption needs. The important
component of institution-building is captured by a general indicator.
13.     The Female-Headed Households program would provide support for household food
production to 3,700 female-headed households to improve food security and incomes. The three
specific indicators selected are (i) the number of participating households; (ii) household
incomes, for the same reason as in the micro-credit program, and (iii) food productivity. The
range of institutional and group formation benefits, including community day care centers,
schools and access to local services would be captured either in the first specific indicator, or in
the general indicators of community participation and institutional capacity.
14.    The agricultural reform program aims to increase food crop production and productivity
in six of seven districts in Gorno-Badakhshan, by bringing additional land into cultivation through
small scale self-help irrigation channels. This would benefit 1,600 resource-poor farming
households. The three specific indicators would measure the (i) the land development potential
(length of channels constructed and potential command area realized); (ii) actual land development
(number of hectares developed for cultivation, number of households benefiting; and (iii) actual
increase in food production and productivity by family and unit area. The evaluation would take
into account that the land development schedule extends for several years beyond the life of the
Project, and that therefore the benefit stream for some may commence after Project completion.



- 146-
C.    Capacity building indicators
15.    The second Project objective of capacity building is to strengthen in country capacity to
develop and implement poverty alleviation programs through (i) development of TASIF as a
central organization to fund and provide technical support for microprojects; and (ii) through the
first Project component, to build up local community, NGO and local government capacity to
initiate and organize poverty alleviation programs at local level.
16.    Three indicators would be used to measure and evaluate Project performance and the
achievement of this objective: (i) the development of national and local institutional capacity to
implement participatory poverty alleviation programs; (ii) the number of national and local
government officials trained in project identification, proposal preparation and community
participation, together with the number of proposals received by TASIF, and (iii) the number of
TASIF staff trained in these skills. The first two of these indicators are common to both
components of the program, while the third is specific to the second component.
17.   The institutional capacity indicator is both qualitative and quantitative, and must be
measured at several levels:
A.    Each of the programs in the first Projct component has a specific local
institutional objective which is both a means and an end: participation through
community-based organizations and associations of beneficiaries. The work
groups of the shelter program, the micro-credit groups and umbrella NGO, the
associations of female headed households and the managements of day care
centers and schools, the local farmers' groups negotiating irrigation channels, all
play an important part in empowering the poor and marginalized to organize to
improve their conditions.   They help rebuild civil society and ensure
sustainability of process and impact in poverty alleviation. The indicator at this
level would measure scale (size, geographical and social coverage), scope and
institutional strength. The design of an instrument and a method to capture this
aspect objectively, in the context of the diversity of organizations emerging will
be a challenge for the baseline evaluation to resolve.
B.    At the second tier, the institutional capacity of local government officials, and
local or national NGOs to target, appraise, implement and monitor poverty
alleviation programs can be determined by simple institutional assessments on a
common checklist.
C.    At the third tier of TASIF itself, the key measures of capacity would be results
against its central objective, the ability to channel investments through
community microprojects for poverty alleviation, and to ensure and account for
the results.
18.   The second key capacity building indicator is trained officials. This indicator would
capture the number and geographical distribution of national and local government officials and
NGO officials trained in project identification, proposal preparation and community participation.
The indicator would measure training effort (person-days, cost) against intended results, such as



- 147 -
the number, quality and distribution of proposals received by TASIF, or changes in knowledge,
attitudes and practice. Measured across the Project, this indicator would capture the extent to
which the four NGO programs, and TASIF itself, have contributed lessons, demonstration,
training for replication of their successes over a wider geographical and institutional canvas.
Additionally, each training event should have a simple internal evaluation as standard quality
control practice.
19.    The third key capacity building indicator is training within TASIF itself, the only
indicator in Table 1 is not measured "across the board". As with the previous indicator, this
indicator should measure not only training effort but training results in terms of knowledge,
attitudes and practice that contribute to the organization's mission and performance.
20.    The above set of indicators would facilitate and provide a sound foundation for an
integrated and overall evaluation and should therefore be emphasized in monitoring. The
integrated evaluation, however, would not be limited or determined by these indicators.
MONITORING INDICATORS
21.    Each program has specified its own monitoring indicators, which have four main
purposes: management of implementation, triggering disbursements, tracking impact, and
providing a foundation for subsequent evaluation. The range of these indicators, and how they
would be measured, is shown in Table 4 at the end of this Annex.
D.    Establishing a baseline (May 1997)
22.    To assess the Project's overall impact requires a baseline study, that would allow the key
objective indicators in Table 1 to be measured in a compatible fashion across the Project's several
programs. The first of two main steps to accomplish this is to develop, through workshops and
pilot field exercises, instruments and procedures to operationalize these indicators. By the time
of Project approval [April-May 1997], measurement of the key indicators in Table 1 would have
been pilot tested through a workshop and field exercises that would bring together the NGOs, the
TASIF monitoring and evaluation officer and relevant local consultants or research organizations
under expert technical assistance. The indicators would be not only expert derived, but would
include indicators selected in consultation with local commnities and capable of being measured
by them;
23.   Having agreed and tested measurement of the indicators and constructed a suitable sample
frame6', quantitative and qualitative baseline data would then be collected and analyzed by the
four NGOs and by TASIF for the first batch of 10-15 micro-projects, to establish quantified
measures. The inclusion of TASIF in the baseline exercises would improve learning from the
first to the second Project components, and facilitate the setting up of a fuller beneficiary
assessment for later TASIF micro-projects.
6/ A 10 per cent sample of direct beneficiaries, plus a control group of suitable size, seems appropriate.



- 148 -
MANAGEMENT OF INTEGRATED EVALUATION
A.    Objectives
24.    The integrated evaluation would determine the extent to which the Project had achieved
its objectives, and particularly evaluate the following aspects, without necessarily being limited
by them:
A.    design (needs identification, selection of intervention strategy, targeting)
B.     social and geographical targeting
C.     impact
D.    sustainability (of process and of impact)
E.     community participation
F.     cost effectiveness, relating the identified benefits to resources invested
G.    replicability
B.     Design and method
25.    The evaluation has been designed in order to ensure the following features: (i) the
independence, multi-disciplinary professionalism, integrity and reliability of its conclusions;
(ii) the effective participation of beneficiaries and implementors; and (iii) the generation of
maximum learning and capacity building. Any tension between the first objective (independence
and integrity) and the second (participation of implementors and beneficiaries) would be resolved
by ensuring a collegial approach under an independent leader.
26.    A three-week mid-term evaluation would be conducted about June-July 1998, linking and
coordinating the findings of the separate evaluations of the four NGO programs comprising the
first Project component. It would verify through field visits the validity of key monitoring
indicators and the essential accuracy of the quarterly progress reports, and review the training
materials under preparation. The progress of the TASIF MIS would be assessed against these
findings, with particular emphasis on (i) assisting with the identification of simple and effective
monitoring and evaluation instruments, and the inclusion of community-based indicators; and (ii)
the design of the TASIF microprojects beneficiary assessment. The design and selection of
microprojects would also be evaluated. In reviewing Project progress against key indicators, the
mid-term evaluation should pay particular attention to an initial institutional capacity assessment
of TASIF, in order to allow time for recommendations to be taken into consideration during the
second year of the Project.
27.    The focus of the mid-term evaluation would be on lessons learned and Project course
correction. TASIF, local communities and NGOs would all have the opportunity of mutual
learning and education.
28.    A final four-week evaluation would be conducted in June-July 1999, combining the
evaluations of the four NGO programs, a selection of the TASIF microprojects, the beneficiary
assessment, and an institutional assessment of TASIF. The evaluation team would make site
visits to a selection2' of TASIF microprojects to verify monitoring and reporting procedures
1   A 20 percent sample of projects is recommended. It would be important to ensure a representative range of examples
of success or difficulty in implementation.



- 149 -
against observations. The central questions to be addressed, on the basis of an analysis of key
indicators, are: (i) the justification of continuing or expanding investments in poverty alleviation
through participatory micro-projects; (ii) the lessons learned that would maximize the cost-
effective impact and sustainability of such investments; and (iii) the capacity of TASIF to manage
such investments effectively.  The final evaluation would also relate its findings to the
expectations and judgments of the PAD, so as to derive lessons for future project preparation.
C.    Management and inplementation
29.   The evaluation exercise, both mid-term and final, would be contracted competitively by
TASIF, subject to no objection from the Bank, to a suitably experienced and qualified lead
individual or organization who has not been involved in project design, preparation or
implementation. The evaluation leader would, in consultation with TASIF and the implementing
NGOs, assemble a multi-disciplinary team of eight well-qualified local and international experts,
ensuring a sufficient range of expertise to cover the project content: poverty and its alleviation,
construction, micro-credit, gender, agriculture, institutional capacity and MIS training,
community participation. Of the team, three or four international members would be proposed,
one by each of the international NGOs, and paid for from their program budget. At least four
local counterparts would be selected by the team leader and paid for from TASIF's budget.
Interested relevant donors might also be invited to participate.  TASIF's Monitoring and
Evaluation Officer would actively assist the team with research documentation and analysis.
30.   The evaluation team would work as an interdisciplinary team, reviewing each of the
programs, and the TASIF microprojects, with full access to all project sites, personnel and
documentation, and the ability to conduct their own spot field research. The team leader would
be responsible for using all of the inputs and reports from the team members, and would have
full responsibility for the end-product.
31.   In addition, the team would be expected to constitute local evaluation teams for brief
participatory, on-site evaluations. These local teams should include community representatives,
local government officials, other knowledgeable or local persons, and representatives of the
implementing agency.
32.   The team would have access to all relevant TASIF and NGO records. and would be
expected to ensure physical visits to project sites in each region of the country.
D.    Outputs
33.   The consultant would produce a report in Russian and in English for each of the three
evaluation components that would be confidential to TASIF, the implementing NGOs and the
Bank. TASIF and the implementing NGOs would ensure dissemination of relevant findings to
participating communities.
34.   These reports would be made available in final form one month after the evaluation.



H.      I.Table 2: Budget for integrated evaluation by component (US$ base costs)
First component                               Second             Totals
Component
Shelter        Micro-credit     Female        Agricultural   Future NGO
headed        reform        programs
households
Integrated Evaluation
Baseline                                                                                                                30,000     30,000
Mid-term                                 7,050          4,300           5,625          8,000    not specified           30,000    54,975
End of Project                           9,500          12,900          3,000          9,000    not specified          40.000     74,400
Monitoring                         not specified    not specified       6,000         10,000    not specified                      16,000
Institutional capacity building
MIS manager                                                                                                             13,200     13,200
Monitoring and evaluation officer                                                                                       13,920     13,920
MIS Assistant                                                                                                           9,600      9,600
MIS Adviser                                                                                                             14,400     14,400
Beneficiary assessment int'nl TA                                                                                        16,000     16,000
Beneficiary assessment local TA                                                                                         10,000     10,000
Special Studies and evaluations                                                                                     9,000      9,000
Total                                   16,550          17,200         14,625         27,000 l  not specified          186,120    261,495



- 151 -
Table 3: Additional costs of baseline and integrated evaluation
Item                                          baseline     midterm         final         total
International costs                                  24            24           32           80
Local costs                                           6             6             8          20
Total                                                30            30           41
Note: These costs are summarized under the second component of Table 2, although the evaluation covers
both components.
Table 4: Monitoring Indicators
Level of                        Objective                                   Monitoring Indicators                Means of Verification
Objective
Project           Increase incomes of some of the poor quickly.   *   Labor content of NGO programs as a            *   Quarterly Reports
percentage of the total program costs.      *   Audits
*   Demographic and socioeconomic information    *   Beneficiary
on hired laborers, female-headed households      Assessment
and farmers in NGO programs.
*   Disbursement of NGO programs versus
project goals.
Project           Develop local capacity to implement panicipatory    *   Proportion of NGO programs and TASIF-     *   Quarterly Reports
poverty alleviation programs.                        financed microprojects implemented with/by   *   MIS
community organizations.                    *   Beneficiary
*   Proporl;on of project funds devoted to            Assessment
training and technical assistance for       *   Bank Supervision
communities.
*   Number of microprojects implemented by
TASIF in accordance with Operational
Manual versus project goals.
Project           Demonstrate successful poverty alleviation       *   Methods used by NGOs in first component      *   Bank Supervision
programs.                                            are adopted by TASIF.                        *   MIS
*   Amount of funds contributed to TASIF for     *   Quarterly Reports
use after project completion.
*   Proportion of NGO programs and TASIF-
financed microprojects implemented with
community contribution of at least 5 percent.
Component         TASIF



- 152 -
Sub-Component   Institutional Development of the TASIF as a      *   Progress made toward development of an       *   MIS
demand-driven funding mechanism that responds       accounting system.                          *   Regular Audits
to community requests.                         *   Progress made toward development of the      *   Bank Supervision
MIS.
*   Finance and Administration Dept. produces
timely reports and documents needed for
audits.
*   Annual budgets are prepared without
requiring major revisions.
*   Concise Quarterly Reports are delivered to
TASIF Board and donors on time.
*   Special account is maintained in accordance
with guidelines.
*   Average time between appraisal and approval
of microprojects. Regular staff reviews are
held.
Sub-Component   Microprojects                                    *   Number of microprojects appraised versus          MIS
project goals.
*   Number of microprojects completed versus
project goals.
*   Average cost of microprojects appraised and
completed.
Component        Scup existig NGO programs
Sub-Component   Support to female-headed households (SCF-UK):    *   Health status of household members
Increase levels of household income for 2100   *   Quality of bread
vulnerable household by July through the       *   number of livestock
provision of agricultural assets such as livestock,    *   Family incomes in the form of other
seed and tools as well as technical advice          economic activities
*   quality and quantity of land available for
cultivation
*   Knowledge of agricultural methods.
Program          Support to female-headed households (SCF-UK):    *   Children's attendance at schools and day cares
Strengthen local capacity to support day care       numbers of hours per day differentiated by
centers and schools serving 30 villages, by         sex and age
establishing community based mechanisms for the   *   Attendance of teachers at schools and daycare
management of grants and revolving funds            centers; numbers of hours/days per year.
generated by agriculture inputs.               *   Perceptions of factors affecting attendance.
Program          Support to female-headed households (SCF-UK):    *   Access to available services:
Promote access to available services and resources   *   water
through the dissemination of information and   *   security
advice, group formation, and legal support to  *   assistance from local and international
vulnerable households and indirectly to the         organizations
population of 30 villages.                      *   knowledge of land reform
*   possession of official papers
*   vaccination programs
Program          Support to female-headed households (SCF-UK):    *   same as sub-program 1.
Enabling up to 2400 vulnerable households in 4
areas of the country to achieve higher levels of
self reliance and greater access to income support.



- 153 -
Program          Support to female-headed households (STC-UK):    *   Improved capacity:
Improving the capacity of selected local       * training
organizations (govermnment and non-government ) * conducting baseline surveys
to identify and support appropriate poverty    * indicators in 2.1
alleviation activities.
Program          SCF-US Shelter and Employment Creation:         *   Number of constructed homes benefiting:
Reconstruction by needy families of 2000 homes    *   families with many children
destroyed by War with material provided by SCF    *   FHH
(US)                                           *   widows
*   pensioners
*   Quantities of construction materials disbursed
*   Quality of constructed homes
*   Standard of living of families in the houses
reconstructed.
Program          SCF-US Shelter and Employment Creation: Local   *   Proportion of women participating in
community Food for Work brigades will carry out     construction brigades
reconstruction activities for 2000 homes and   *   Quantities of food disbursed and approximate
improve their families food security through the    labor days equivalent
estimated 420 MT of food (wheat, flour, beans
and oil) which will be distributed as compensation
for approximately 210,000 days equivalent of
labor.
Program          SCF-US Shelter and Employment Creation:
Demonstrated practice of community participation
in reconstruction, needs identification and
monitoring will produce measurable positive
changes in community attitudes towards defining
and meeting local development needs, both in the
project area and in other parts of the country.
Program          SCF-US Shelter and Employment Creation:
Support to local private production of fiber
cement roofmg tiles will support the expansion of
an environmental friendly technology, the creation
of five or six micro enterprises in tiles production
and a care of skilled workers.
Program          Group Guarantee Loans and Savings Program       *   Income levels
(SCF-US): Increasing incomes and thereby       *   Health
alleviating poverty for 3, 750 poor women and  *   Food security
their families engaged in micro enterprises by  *   Development of children
providing access to micro financial services   *   types of microenterprises and productive
through the a group guarantee lending and savings   activities
program in Bokhtar, Vaksh, Kurgan-Tiube and     *   Productive assets
Kolkazabad districts of Khatdoon Region.



- 154 -
Program           Group Guarantee Loans and Savings Program         *   Bi weekly monitoring:
(SCF-US): Financial Services                     *   Total principal collected this meeting
1. Three month loans with 6 installment          *   Total interest collected this meeting
repayments collection with 13 % interest per     *   Total savings this meeting.
installment.                                     *   Loans disbursed this meeting
2. Bi-weekly forced savings. 3 percentage points    *   Amount overdue to date
on interest held as savings for group members.   *   Amount outstanding to date
*   Amount collected by promoter to date.
*   Portfolio Statistics Per 3 month Cycle:
*   number of loans disbursed
*   Amount disbursed
*   Avg. size of disbursement
*   Overall operating expenses
*   Interest collected per bi-weekly meeting.
*   Interest collected per cycle
*   Repayment rate
*   Recovery rate
*   Full repayment number of loans
*   Full repayment amount
*   Loans outstanding
*   Total number of borrowers
*   Total disbursements
*   Total repayments
*   Return on performing assets
*   Financial cost ratio
*   Operating cost ratio
*   Operating self sufficiency ratio
*   Cost per loan made
*   Number of Active borrower per credit officer
*   Portfolio per credit officer
Program           Group Guarantee Loans and Savings Program        Groups:
(STC-US): Institution building                   *   Attendance level at group meetings. Content
a: group formation: 18-20 women for borrowing         of meetings. Number of meetings held per
and savings. Regular bi-weekly meetings for           group.
savings, loan repayments and loan disbursals.    *   Increase in bargaining power with other local
b. Training of GGLS staff in group formation and      institutions or individuals as a result of group
promotion and in financial management and             formation.
planning.                                        *   Number of trainings and frequency of
c. Training for groups in group dynamics              messages reinforcement done for groups,
training content.
*   Number of group members involved in
productive activities
Staff:
.    Number and frequency of staff training
*   How often has the future of GGLS as an
independent institution been discussed.
*   How much progress has been made in
creating tbe structure, what steps have been
taken.
*   Tracking the GGLS staff promotion upwards
in the organization.
Program           Agriculture Reform  (AKF): Expand area under    *   Km of channels constructed
food crop production                             *   Number of total schemes completed
*   Amount of food for work distributed for
channel construction
*   Area (ha) under cultivation (with percent
under wheat, barley, alfalfa, potatoes and
vegetables)



- 155 -
Program          Agriculture Reform (AKF): Increase food crop    *   Quantities of agricultural inputs (seed, fuel,
production and productivity                         fertilizer) supplied on credit
*   Post-harvest repayments
Program          Agriculture Reform (AKF): Establish and support   *   Amount of training of farmers in crop and
private farm management                             resource management
*   Amount of assistance provided in establishing
an open market and encouraging sale or
surplus produce
Program          Agriculture Reform (AKF): Human and             *   Number of farmers participating
institutional capacity building                *   Degree of successful group participation and
leadership quality, by scheme
*   Pre-cropping planning workshops (ARP staff)
(I week, semi-annual)
*   Improved physical and human capacity in 6
district offices (equipment, staff)



REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN                                                             ECMT.XLS
PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
DETAILED  PROJECT   COST  ESTIMATES                                                                         PlotPoAllevbtion-sMarch5,1997
Expenditur Accounts by Components. Totals icluding Contigencies
(USS)
Scate-Up Existng Poverty Alleviation Programs
Shelter and                Program or                                     TaJiktatkn Social Investment Fund (TASIF)
House                    Suppont to                              Itntuttonal
Rehabilitaton   Miero-credit Female headed  Agficutural  Future    Development                 Integrated
Ptogrsm-      Pogranm-   tlwsehotds.    Reform       Sponsored   of TAStF end     TASIF     Evaluatlon of  Audit 01 te
SCFPJS       SCFIUS        SCFAJK       Progrm      Pogrms    Locwl Actors         pject   the PPAP         PPAP         Total
1. Investment Costs
A Civil Works                                                                    -                                                                     1,960,000.00            - *             1,980,000.0t
B. Goods
Constmtion Matenals                                                  2,685.49241            -             *   13it933.82    500.17529                          -             -           -  3,317.601.53
Ag9rculturat items                                                             -            '    117,683.1                                                     ,                          -   117,68318
Offioe Equipment                                                               *                          -            -   346,081.44    127,802.87            -            -            -   473,884.31
Other Equipment                                                                *            -             -            -   115,380.48             -            *            -            -   115,30.48
Vehides                                                                 56.234,54                  22,493.81           .   173,487.42     94,975.18                         -            -   347,190.95
Furniture                                                                      ..-.                                                       16,733.91            -                         -     16,733.91
Subttal Goods                                                          2,741,726.95           -    140,177.00    131,933.82  1,135.104.63  239,511.96                                         4,388,454.36
C. Services
1. lasnagement and A mtin%eston I Technical As"tanee
Expefsinternational                                                  316.797.29    300,419.20   208,05384     17,011.62    386,403.81  2U4,997.74            -     87.01.90    165,900.62  1.767,386.00
Exerts Local                                                           5,273.56           -       2,109.43    31,665.03    316.705.61   77,416.33    490,000.00    21,100.05           -   944,270.01
Subtotal Management and AdmintistraUon/Technical Assistance            322,070.85    300,419.20   210,163.26   48,676.85    703,109.42   362,414.07    490,000.00   108,901.95    165,90062  2,711,656.0i
2. TraIning
Training Overseas                                                            -    37,084 45             -            -            -     34,929.49            *            -            -    72,013.93
Training Local                                                        23,280.57    38,028.98     26,485.63    23,307.35           .      14.400.20           ,            -            -   125,502.73
Subtotal Training                                                       23,280.57    75,113.42    26,485.63    23,307.35            *     49.329.69                         -            -   197,516.67
Subtotal Services                                                        345,35142    375,53262     236,648.89   71,984.00    703.109 42    411,743.76    490,000.00  108,901.95    165,900.62  2.909172.67     C'
D Loan/ Grant Funds                                                              -   282,403.00    276,104.05            -            -            -            *             -            -   558507.05
Total investment Costs                                                   3,087,078 37    657,935.62  652,929.93    203,917.82  1,838.214.04  651i,25572  2.450,000.00   108,901.95    15062   9.816,134.09
II. Recunmnt Costs
A Oice Space and Operations                                               89,893.28    68,598.73    44,494.24    103,518.02           -    424,322.89           *                               730,827.16
B Supplies                                                                14,326,54     7,010.91    28,14143     47,862.36           .      20,537.17                                           117,878A1
C. Salaries of Local Staff                                               273,971.25    284,013.45   299,250.00   90.877.50           .    433,786.50            .             -            -  1,381,898.70
D. Transportation/Equipment lease                                         16,930.59    27,224.93    73,903.36    233,280.44          *      74,013.40           -                               425,352.71
E. Miscellaneous                                                          59.966849    47,520.51     14,211.50    4.217.52           .      14,219.79           *             -                 140,135.81
F. Maintenance                                                            10,810.48      835.92             .    33,662.73           *      27,186.31           .             .            ,    72,495.45
Total Recurmnt Cost                                                        465,898.63    435,20445    480,000.53    513,418.57          *    9                    *                          -  2,868588.24
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                       3,552.977.00  1.093,140.07   1,112,930.46    717,33639  1.838,214.04   1,645.321.79  2.450.000.00  108,901.95    165,90062 12.884.722.3`
Taxes                                                                            -                          -            -            .            -    96,000.00             *            *    98,000.00
Foreign Exchange                                                       2,471,887.60    447,112.91  444,77008    309,554.06  1.363,925.04   730,23319    441.000.00     85,801.95    158,025.62  6.452,310.45
Po I 



.11am,  .-M             .-,m                         w ".      M m          W5000's                                                                                             POOL
-=M;rs  -KV-mm                                    -arW--7F.- -.70-9-u
777cm-                                             -97-  -91"--  -,Fw-                                                                                     ----% -1---0          r
IC"                                     MMIZ    MWOI        . Wo..    WM"                                                                                                      I
a    OL'S,      SSOLOI,   .1..          .1    - 01    WWI.,   wwev                                                                                               -.WOA M J P
'l, a    W IZE        OWV    11 VW,    CLOW"    . ODE I        Mr,    mwwt                                                                                                  oOloc, 0
z m "    Lo Soo    .".    It W,    W Wt,"          CM.    W".    W -I                                                                                                          A
.", m    a,",    M.           -K           MV I   . "VI        Ur,        CM.                                      ot                                                           I
SCaC%       .1 I,  - W.1      NM.    wwlm    W-1,    MWIF4    W oxii                                                                                                ..... -0
.-I                           .."        ."I    .                         "I                                                  s
a MV      St M z      1.z    KM'    W=:,             WIZ                WWZ'l    WE       M        Z I     Z I     9
M.        M.       I-C    W WI,          WC I      Mr,    .-C    Wo           M
to                                                                            11      1
cm 5    M           Mt        too                                     W Wo              M        11      L
.,M,"   KM.    Sos-             wIze    WC`M  I   WWD(X`   WOOD.    W-M
. Wkz   l1wIlI                  M%    CCCW`        W LLA`     .0w       WWLICS
Mal-    M-St,   M514,111   MM"                     ..Is 1.    W.11c,    W.Irz,                                                                                              P.."
wIl's    W-Z          stle't    %MVI       Mr      - L    '9`MI -1     7rm-,          S',  M       13      ZI                                                              -Ml
M-        W M"        M.,    .01         W WD I    W Oa"      WWII    W WSI    Ila                                                                                          -C,
M                                                                                                  K    K    M
ula    W-11         St.       MO    MM'"    Wm""    Mm""    Wm.                   z
.MCK                                       WCIC    WWO I   M-,.,   - 's    -                       It      .9      1,
"M        OD"  I    wow,,   .0.1I    ." "    MWO I    WWI I   W`Wz                Mc      "I       SO,             Z,
MC-1        a       W at'.   ISUCC    Iltme,"        L%       mWo.    M           %I`     M        11      L I
WM S    M.I. z    -ot    .               .0w.    W ow,    woool         .         11,     c I      I       I                 'l-"
zio C.   W M'I    .#W.    M "11        WMI'C.    W ow,      mm,    ww't    CII          W        I I     C I
M  :   wws    wms    M -                 Ww        Wo.    W Wo        W-,    W`         a                                                                            o- VINOOO
M                             .11.       MME    W M                     W -       ill              1:      I :
M         U.-S    WSU'                                      M M                         M        L       f
ul I              MOIll's    W         W MV11    W W        M -,    W W,       W`                                                                                    "llol'oO, M
W 0091.     W$                 wwlz                       1:      "I
Ws-,        fto     moa       mm                             WWI$                 W`      Lt       L       C
.Md.    W M"    Wm"             Ms    .*W.                     ".    WWI,    U,           n        K               C,        ol-
WMA    W CLAC.    W M         W go't    wtlM       W".        = 0    00MCC    Ws          M        11      11                                   (2" -Gololls "l"OIl`OI3 P- &.-M AvIll'olo
M uac.   W ars    war         K'al       W W       W          W M       ww,    91,        M                 I                v-                                   pw-oft
.WV*                                                                                     1:      11      I        -
WL.    .."C    W M           -two      W.W.    wWC`1
WM'K    won I    wwcl   W=               W=        COWC I    wwra    WCM`O    096         W        II      11      11                                                        -v
.MIS,   W CM        W M's    .."         - 11    W CM         00 -'s    W -       or.              LI      LI
.W11       mz    Wm,    malt    W(W     M Wr,1    WOOr                W M '    Wo      M
mu."        ml        M.    .11.1    W-            WMV                            ;II              I       I                                                         --W
W-a    W-,.    MM's             Set.      WS.    W LOO'.    OOM's    NWSI    M,           a        t I     LI      0
Amlooo'l,,
U SCr,w   `L.IwK    a W'C"    UMCSC   NOMM    MMP    ww'.1z   wwS'WC
"Ms    C, ml a,   I. "u,   WWI'-    .-.    ..IzII   -               l                                                                                       OOow`IO PollOll"s
"OLL.    W.".    mme,                      we,.    mm.        Mwoll   W"el                                                                                           a.."U POOOP's
-91M-i-w-01 1-1                                  - -a-m               -                                                                                oOoo-o,O
It VC                 M's    MCCO'll       me    WOM's    WWO'I                                                                                      O,Ion k,-R-i ooolos
C 7--C
"M    am    W WS,                        M wo   W M
M.."      ."W,        Wc,'    W-,    mmz    W-
o,oo,e swlou
plol-,LT
aIU&        01. a'   OSOISI     Wf-    MCLCOL    W.W"I   WWO111                                                                         VALI- FIVIVIO
U." LI                -'&    ., M".        WI11    . M.,    M::,.    WWr.,                                                                                           p,ooq poollos
"MI. Fr .. t 71-5,                           a  IM t- M    7-
UGAIS01   -         " SIS.,              WWWO,                WWG'01    .         WS
11OL,`0    "IM"     11-6    011"I         WO'.    MWfI    W-,    W.It    Wo               1.       C       9       C
,-                  ., oll,.,    -    I    MCMI,    I         W.W.,    mm,    WS1    4                     I       C
"M"    nmal   So M C,   ",,C$    Wm"    wmzl   OD 00.1c,   WWIF9    000 I    a                     C,      z 1     9                                           Q.-low
.-N 0-7 4
1,001a      wal   PMK.   wwtK    M ocs a    WWCIII   WWI1Stl                                                                                      Iolhlo
arliw    W,. 'I"    Uml.   CS.I.,   .",U           W-C&    W-il    W-,,
wla"                                     WWII'.               WM'                 W,      0                W                                                           -03 -W
ICOOO"              Iolo".               WM` I               mm.,                 me,    W                 M
IIWX                          I, art    .=1                             Wm,    WS         t
19 ai C                       a Is"        WPS                          W(Co`1    Wo I    I
.`Ww                I           Mt,   ..W`                    W-C,   W-  I                                                                                             Sloo
:1.    CK)WD                           W-S,   ODS I    9                          9
II. "a              IS            r.      W0.                           W-.    I,%',   t.
01.11    41-P    N 10-    wal"Ut   CLOCK,    mm'.               QIftI
00 OM"    MNIC)I    WSEIGS,                                                                                            lolo"
W
cw"    .           01".                   z,                                                                                 oloOlo,0, I
MI",    SOM.,   49 M'-    W.11cl,   M",    WM,-                                                                                                      -wobs OOM Poom*
M       W MC                           W          WC                                                                                      lfwL
Ol",    W -        -                    W                                                                                                  AL
Cc, I                        K    t      ml                             ml    W I
CL I                          I=I                                       WWI,
.,:cc
C., I    WWII                           WWVI    M          Z,                       El
..C       W.,        W.,                 to
40-       W.;C                           -M,    WS          I                                                                   M -..PI P.-*
.1                            ..tz    W                                      I
MI    .0%,                                        = I    I                                                                          ollwl`14-d
me    W.It                               WVC    .1        I                                                                             o-'Ib
11 "C I                       I Ikcc       Wol                          WCWT      WS'I    I                        E                                                 'OlIo'll 
OOM,    ".s         Wm*                  mm,    W M           CGO,    21                                                                              un
"Wt                 -11  W S"    W."    .." I                                                                                                      o-1
C.M                 -          COVO5.    CCC%*                          W WS       WS .    I
,.11.               .-C,                CCWC.                 WWTC.   W WC,    CWr    11
to ow I                       to =.I    .0w l                           WWL`41   ows,   I
"S.I.                 "',                  W,       W-                                                                                               Old
or Ill I    W,`oS   .14                    WG1    MCM         W-        WM                                                                                              -00-0
Q a       M WS                           W WS       Ws      I                                                                              Ololl
M I  1".                                                 m-n
Z



OT_2.XLS
Tajibistan
Pilot Poverty Alleviaton - March 5. 1997
Table 2. Miropjojeds
Debtiled Costs
CUSS)
Quant_ts                                               Base Cost                                  Total* Irncluding Conncles
UnIt    1997      1958      1999      Total   Unit Cost     1"7          11s          199          Total        197          1995        1s           Total
1. Investment Costs
Civl Worlks Component of Microprojects    each         14        21        35        70    28.000    392,000.00    588.000.00    980,000.00  1,950,000.00    392,000.00    588000.00    980,000.00  1,960.000 00
Seneces Component of Mlcrproject          each         14        21        35        70      7,000    98,000.00    147,000.00   245,000.00    490,000.00  98,000.00    147,000.00    245.000.00    490.000.00
Total                                                                                                   490,00000    735,000.00  1,225.000.00  2.450,000.00    490,00000    735.00000  1,225,00000  2.450.000.00
Ul
Page 1



OT_3.XLS
TajOtlolan
PlO Povety Aleviation - Match 5, 19t7
Table S. ShEer tfd House RehabIllatlon Progrm / SCF (US)
Defted CoOst
(US$)
t3uanttn                                                           Base Cost                                   Totals Including Contingnclas
Unit       1597           1988           I9t9           Total      UnitCoat      1197         168          19W          Tot           1997         1981         1t"           Tatl
I. vestment Cams
A. Goods
1. Commodkita I Consotouctlo MateIalts
Tinber planks /                                       earh           20000         50.000          30,000        100,000      12.4    25o,t00.00    642,000.00    385.200.00   I.204.000.00    287,485.72    729,297 93    445,S45.55   1.482,329.20
Beams                                                 eacti          12.000        30,000          18.000         80,000       3.0    43,200.00    10t.000.00     64,800.00    216,000.00   48,362.08    122.685.63    74,951.59    245,0".31
Tiles               .uI                                             81:o0.000    t.500,000        000,000       3,000,000     0.28    16,0000000    420,00000    252,000.00    840.000.00    188,074.77    477,110.60    291,478.40    856,06309
Nire                                                   kg               6OO          2.000          1,200          4,000         2      1,600.00      4,000.00     2,40000      t,000.00      1,791.19     4.543.01     2,77S.08     9111.09
Nam                                                    kg               100         2,000           1,200          4.000       2.5      2,000W00      S000.00      30000.0     10,000.00     2,238.99      5,6T9.69     3,450.90    11,386s.6
Subtotal Commodities/ Conotructlon MusrIals                                                                                             471,800.00   1.179,00000    707.400.00  2,35t00000    527,952.75  1,339.318.17    615,221.50  2.85s.492.41
2. Equp,ment
a Vebiicles                                           each                2             -                              2    25.000     500,.000                          -     N50000.00    56,234.4                                58,234.54
Subtotal Goods                                                                                                                            521,600.00  1,179,000.00    707,400.00  2,400,000.00   54,16729   1,339,316.17    618,221.50  2,741,720.95
S. Srevices
1. Administlrtive and Advisory Services
a. Seavie o Inten atIonal Expasr
ICR                                                  S                                                                               25,538.W0    51.077.00     25,538 50    102,1 400    25,538.W0     51,077.00    25,538.50    102,154.00
Field Office Dreclor                                  S                                                                               4,036.00     6,07.00       4,036 00    16144.00      4,332.92      8.62574      4,514.30    17,673.95
DO- Progrms                                          $                                                                                6,215 25    12,43050       6,215 25    24,001.00     e8672.50     13,592.70     6,951.80    27,217.00
DD  - Ad0mn. / Fin.                                  S                                                                                1,029 75    3259.50        1,829.75     7,219.00      1,954.36     4,001.67     2,040.59     8,012.62
Program Director                                      $                                                                               6,808.00    13,776.00      68.88.00    27,552.00     7.394.74     15,064.07     7,704.28    30,163.09
Progm Manager                                        S                                                                                2,906.00     0.81200       2.0.00     11,62400      3,119.75      6,355.43     3,25038     12,725.60
Pos Adjslument                                       S                                                                               15,052.50    31,105.00     15,62.50     62,210.00    16,696.67     34,013.34    17,395.59    68,105.0
Midlerm Evakiidon                                    $                                                                                      -      7,05000                                        - 7.0o00   7.709.18              7,70918
Program Inoegrtrdon Specalks                         S                                                                                3,000.00     3,W 0000            -       ,000.00     3,220.71      3,280.50                  6,501.21
End Evahuatin                                        S                                                                                      -             -      9.500.       9,500.00                         -     10,625.02    10,625.02
Procurement Consueant                                S                                                                               18.6.00       7.200.00                  24,00000     18,036.95     7,87321             .    25,90.16
Subtotal Services of Irnatlo-a Eferto                                                                                                  82,76e.00    143.1U2 00    72,466 00    298.41400    00,976.14    151,793.89    78,027 26    318,797.29
b. Services of National Esparts
Counterpart Consuoan                                 S                                                                                1,250.00     2.500 00      1,250 00     5,00O.00     1,315.60     2,630.45      1.321.51     5,273.56
Subtotal Admlnistrativlmand Advisory Seevices                                                                                            84,018.00    145,682.00    73,71000    303,414.00    00,291.74    154,430.34    79,34877    32,.070.85
2. Training Local
Donmsnnotalon. Trmnstion                                                                                                                2.500.00     5,0W00       2,500.00     1000000       2,637.40      5,295.79     2,061.06    10,594.25
DenroestrAlion oouses                                  S                 3              -                             3      2.000      6.0000              -.                   000.00      6,329.77                                 , 6.321.77
Training Vsits from Other Regions                      S                                                                                1,5W.00      3000.00       1.500.00     8000.00      1,582.44     3,177.47      1,596.63     6.356055
Subt.ul1Training Loc1                                                                                                                   M100.000       80000        4,00000      22,000.00    10,549.62     8,47325       4,25769     23,280.57
Subtotal ServIces                                                                                                                          94,016.00    153,682.00    77,71600    325,414.00      ,U841.30    162,903.60   83,606.46    345,351.42
Totaln l"esbt,ent Costs                                                                                                                     815,816 00  1,332,682 00    785,116 00  2,733,414.00    683.028.54   1.502.22177    901.027 95  3,087,078.37
n. Recurant Cosb
National Staff                                             S                                                                               65,23125    130,462.50    05,231.2s    280,925.00    88,492.81    135.5.63    88,492.81    273,07125
Ofice Rent, L'ites                                         S                                                                                8,50500     17,010.00      ,W50S.00    34,020.00     9.421.61     18.95579      9,548.26    37.925.67
Office Maindenance                                         S                                                                                 47250         94500        472.50      1.89000        52712      1,00670        541.17      2,134.99
Cornun,catlens, Postage                                    S                                                                                e.30Woo     12,600.00     6,300.00     26,200.00     6.971.12     14,041 33     7,07276     29,083.24
Supplies                                                   $                                                                                3,150.00     6.300.00     3.150 00     t2,600.W0     3,528.40     7,150.06      3,643.48    14.326.54
Warehouse Rental                                            S                                                                               2,52000      5.04000       2,52000     10,080.00     2,769.20     5,640.71      2,648.15    11287.08
sntqtment                                                  S                                                                                1,5750W      3,15000      1,57500       6,300.00     1,744.78     3.510.33      1,706.20     7.023231
Fuea                                                       S                                                                                2,52050      5,040.00     2,52000      10,090.00     2.785.10     5,592.35      2,610.50    11.1t7.53
Vehicle Maintenance, Repair                                S                                                                                1,920.00     3.640.00      1.920.00     7,680.00     2.141.94     4,334.52      2,19003      8,675.50
TronspootallniCn CoUryt                                    S                                                                                1,2t0.00     2,520.00      1,200.00     5,040.00     1.3".10      2,620.35      1,424.06     5.43.53
Bankt lhgas                                                                                                                               110,017.50    21.975.00     10.597.50    43.950.00    12,143.36    24,303.33     12,2.26      48.778.965
Office Equment                                             II                                                                              15,00W.00                               15.00000     16,6t0087                               16.850,87
Total Racurernt Coet                                                                                                                        119,44125    204.882.50    104,441.25    432,755.00    128,810.82    224,407.72    112,800.30    465.69863
Total                                                                                                                                       735,057 25   1.541.584.50   859,557.25   3,106,179.00    811.83928   1.726.709.49   1.014.428 25  3,552.977.00
I Procured ucdar TASIF
POge I



OT_4 XLS
Tajibdstan
Pilot Povery Allemation - Manth 5.1997
Table 4. Miao-credit Program / SCF (US)
Detailed Costs
(USS)
Quantitles            Unit                      ease Cost                                Totals Including Contingencies
Unit   1997   1998   1999   Total   Cost        1997         1998        1999         Total       1997         1999        1m          Total
I. investment Coats
A. Services
1. Servics of Intemational Experts
ICR                                            S                                               34,060.75    68,12150    34,06075    136,243.00    34,060.75    68,121.50    34.00.75   136.243.00
ProjetAdAisor                                  S                                               28,738.50    57,477.00    28.738.50    114,954.00    30,852.75    62,851.14    32,144.23   125,648.12
DD-Programs                                    S                                                 59025      1.180.50      590.25     2,361.00      63367      1,290.88      680.20     2,584.75
D - Fin./Adm.                                  S                                                 603.50     1,207.00      603.50     2,414.00      647,90     1,319.86      675.02     2.64277
Fee Evaluabon Consultant                       5                                                4,30000    12,900.00           -    17,200.00     4,618.34    14,106.16          -    18,722.50
Fee (NBS) Consultant                           $                                                      -     6,500.00    6,500.00    13,00000            -     7,107.76     7.270.30    14,378.05
Subtotal Services of intemational Experts                                                        68,293.00   147,386.00    70,493 00   286.17200    70,811.41    154,797.29    74,810.49    300,419.20
2. Traindng, In-country
Training in Micro-finances                     S                                                4,000.00    12,000.00          -    16,000.00     4,219.85   12.709.90                16929.74
MIS Installabon and Training                   S                                               20,000.00          -            -    20,000,00    21,099.24          -            -    21,099.24
Subtotal Training, In-country                                                                    24,000.00    12,000.00               36,000.00    25.319.08    12,709.90          -    38,028.98
3. Study Tous
Microfinance Mgt. Traning in HO                $                                                7,000.00          -      7,000.00    14,000.00    7.52366           -      7,854.79    16.378.45
Trips to South Asia                            S                                               10,000.00    10,000.00          *    20,000.00    10,748.09    10,957.90          *    21.705.99
Subtotal Study Toun                                                                              17,000.00    10,000.00    7,000 00    34,000.00    18,271.75    10,957.90  7.854.79    37.084.45
Subtotal Services                                                                                 109,29300    169.386 00    77,493.00   356,172.00   114,402.25    178,465.09    82,665.28   375,532.62
B Loan Fund                                        S                                               32,832.00    155,200.00    94,371.00   282,403.00    32,83200    155,200.00    94,371.00    282,403.00
Total lmeFsnentCosts                                                                                142,12500   324,56.00    171,864.0    638,575.00   14,245    33,665.09   177,026.28   657,935.62
11. Recurmrnt Costs
A Nabonal Staff                                    $                                               67,622.25    135,244.50    67,622.25   270,489.W00    71,003.36   142.00873    71.003.36   284.013.45   0
B. Bar* Charges                                    S                                                2,893.00    5,573.00    2.91000     11,376.00    3.197.34     6,183.77    3,244.97    12,626.07
C Travel Local                                     S                                                3.000.00    3,00000                  6,000.00    3,331.19     3,35756                  6.688 75
D Fuel                                             S                                                7.860.00    15,720 00   7,860.00    31,440.00    8,686.86    17,442.82    8.764.76    34,894.44
E Office Supplies                                  S                                                1.541.00    3.084.00    1.541.00     6,168.00    1.72514      3,503.36    1,782.41     7,010.91
F. Communications                                  S                                               2,590.00     5,180.00    2,590.00    10.360.00    2,869.19     5,772.55    2,907.70    11,549,44
G. Postage                                         S                                                 740.00     1,480.00      740.00     2,960.00      819.77     1,649.30      830.77     3,299.64
H. Shipment                                        S                                                1,250.00    2,500.00    1.250.00     5.000.00    1,384.75     2,785.98    1,403.33     5,574.05
I. Rnt and Utlities                                S                                               4,440.00     8,880.00    4,440.00    17,760.00    4,918.62     9,895.79    4,984.63    19,799.04
J Prinng and Photocopying                          S                                                1.332.00    2,664.00    1,332.00     5,328.00    1.475.59     2,968.74    1,495.39     5.939.71
K. Maintenance of lOce                             S                                                 185.00      370.00       185.00      740.00       206.38      417.65      211.89       835.92
L. Rent of Vehicles                                S                                               4,58500      9.17000     4,585.00    18,34000     5.09117     10,262.96    5,182.05    20,536.18
M. Office Equipnent and Fumitum
Offic Equipment                                  S                                               16,000.00          -                 16,000.00    17,97426           -           -    17,974.26
Fumiture                                         $                                                4,000.00                             4,000.00    4.462.38                       -       462.38
Subtotal tice Equipment and Fumrture                                                              20 000.00           .           ,    20,000 00    22,43664           .            ,    22A436.64
Total Recurrnt Costs                                                                                18,038.25   192,865.50    95,055.25   405,959.00   127,145.99   206,247.20   101,811.26   435,204.45
Total                                                                                               260,163.25   517,451.50   266,919.25  1,044,534.00   274,380.23  5T39,12.29   278,847.55  1.093,140.07
%a 5 courses for 5 days fbr 20 peopl
Pte 1



DT_5.XLS
Tajlltstan
Piot Poverty Albviation - M rch 5, 1997
Table S. Pogann of Support to Femnale-heided Houseolds I SCF (UK)
Detailed Costs
(USS)
Ciuantities                                         ease Cost                                 Totals Including Contingenieis
Unit   1997    199    1999    Total    Unit Cost      1997         1998        1999        Total        1997        1998         1S99        Total
I. in,estment Costs
A. Goods
1. Equipment
a. Vehicles
Eight Seater Vehice                                 each         1               ,        1      20.000    20,000*00                            20.00000    22,49381            -                 22,493.81
2. Agrixltura Inputs                                     $                                                    105,000.00          -           -   105,000.00   117,683.18           -                117.83.18
Subtotal Goods                                                                                                 125,000.00           *                125,000.00   140,177.00                      -   140,177.00
8. Services
1. Management and AdministratIon I TA
a. Services of Intemational Experts
Proj ctManager Khation                              month                                                  22,200.00    44,400.00    22.20000    88,800.00    23.83322    48,551.43    24,830.87    97,215.52
Program Administrator                               month                                                  18.80000    37.6800D     18,800.00    75,200.00    20,183.09    41.115 83    21,027.94    82,326.68
Monitoingj and Evaluation of Srnal Grants             S                                                     1,500.00    3,000.00     1,500.00    6000.00     1,610.35     3,280.50    1.677.78     8.5s8882
Evaluation Costs                                      S                                                           -     5,825.0     3,000.00     8,825.00          -      8.150.94    3,355.52     9.508.4
Admin. support by Dusttanbe Olcc (5%)                 S                                                     2,840.00    5,680.0     2,840.00    11,360.00    3,048.93     6,211.08    3,176.56    12.436.58
Subtotal Services of Intemational Experts                                                                    45,340.0    98,305.00    48,340.0    189985.00    48,875.59   105,309.59    5,088.65   208.05384
b. Sefvices of Local Experts
Technical Advice from Local Agric Institutes          S                                                      500.00     1,000.00      500.00     2,000.00      526.24     1,054.58     528.61     2,109.43
Subtotal Management and Administration TA                                                                     45.84000    97.305.00    48.84000   191,9Bo00    49,201.83   108,364.17    54,597.28   210,163.26
2. Training
a. Trining Local
Workshops                                             S                                                     1,750.00    3,500.00     1,750 00    7,000 00     1,846.18    3,707.05    1.862.74     7.415.98
Production of Trining Manuals etc                     S                                                     4,500.00    9,000.00    4,500.00    18,000.00    4,747.33     9,532.42    4,789.90    19,069.65
Subtotal Training Local                                                                                      6,250.00    12,500.00    6,250.00    25,000.00    6.593 51    13,239.48    6,852.64    26,485.63 
Subtota Services                                                                                                52.09000   109,80500    55,090.00   216,985.00    55,795.34   119,603.85    81.24990   23e6,48.89     av
C. Small Grants
i Vakhsh                                                 $                                                    25,000 00    25,000.00          *    50,000.00    28,374.04    26,478.95          -    52,853 00
2. Pilots br NGOs and LGOs                               $                                                    105,600.00   105,800.00         -   211,20000   111,403.96   111,847.09               223.251.05
Subtotal SmallGrants                                                                                           130,60000   130,600.00               281,200.00   137,778.01   138,326.04          -   276,104.05
Tota lInvestment Costs                                                                                           307,69000   240,409.00    55,090.00   603,18500   333,750.35   257,929.69    61,24990   652.92993
II. Recurfent Costs
A Local Staff Salanes and Benefts                          S                                                    88,925.00   142,500.00    73,575.00   285.000.00    72,371.25   149,625.00    77,253.75   299.250 00
8 Conmunicattons                                           S                                                     5,000.00    10,000.00    5,000.00    20.00000     5,53899    11,143.91     5,613.32    22,296.22
C.Oftice Supplies                                         S                                                     6,187.50    12,375.00    6,187 50    24,750.00    8,92688    14.057.73     7,156 84    28,141.43
D Rent                                                     S                                                     1.500 00    3,000.00     1,500.00    8,000.00     1,6170     3,343.17     1,684 00    6,68887
E. Transport                                               S                                                    16,500.00    33,000.00    16,500.00    66,000.00    18,321.54    36,933.21    18,648.61    73,903.36
F Bank Charges                                             S                                                     3,894.50    6.40480      2,710.00    12.809.00    4,083.15    7,108.40     3,021 95    14.21150
0. Office Equipment
Generator                                               each         1                       1       3,500     3,500.00           -           -     3,500.00     3,877.29                       '     3,877.29
Photocopiwr                                             each         I       -       -       1       3,500     3,500.00           .                 3,500.00     3,877.29          -            -     3,877.29
Lapto and Printer Sets                                  each         3       -               3   1,833.333     ,500.00                              5.50000      6.092 BS                             6,092.88
Vdeo Cameras                                            each         I               -       1       1,000     1,000.00           -           -      1,000.00    1,107.80           -                 1,107.80
VCR                                                     each         1                        1       800       800.00           .           -       500.00      553.90           -            .      553.90
Subtotal Office Equipment                                                                                         ,00.00                             14,000.00    15,509.16          .            -    15,509.16
Total Recurrnt Costs                                                                                             115,807.00   207,279.50   105,472.50   426,559.00   124,412.64   222,209.43   113,378.46   460,000.53
Total                                                                                                             423,497.00   47,684.80   160,562.50  1.031,744.00   450,182.99   480.139.12   174,628.36  1,112.930.46
Page 1



Dt_8.XLS
Toplan
PM Poverty AlaviatGn - March 5,1997
Table S. Agrteukurl Reform Prgram / AKF
DCald Cosbt
(US$)
Qurntlis                Unit                        Base COs                                  Totals Including Contingenclas
Uni      1957     118    ls       Tota      Coat      107         1iSI          It"         Total       In7          tm           ts           total
1. IntsOmant Cost
A. Goods
1. CommodItIes I Construction Metbrbht
S. Cmerit                                            S                                                    15.97675     31,951.50    15.976 a5 3.907.00        17jianas    30,.25.45    15.479.67    72,8e4.00
b. Fuel  Oil Produats
Disal Ful                                           8                                                     8,837.00   17,674.00     8,a37.00    35.348.00     9,692.90    20.077.28   10.221.41    40.t9l.4
Petrol                                              i                                                    2,011.50     4,023.00     2.011.50     8,046.00     2,251.0e    4,570.04     2,326.62     9,145.52
Disert O                                                                                                 2,183.25    4,368.60      2,183.25     8.733.00    2,444.13     4,00.25      2.52s.28     9,829".
Subtotal Fel I Oit Prducts                                                                                 131031.75 2,,  03.50     13,031.75    52,127.00    14,588.95    529 .5      15,073.31    59,29.82
Subtotal Coam,odiftls I C2otruco Matarials                                                                -8.008.50      58.017,00    29008.50    116,034.00    32,474.00    e8506.04    i3-329s    131,933.52
B3. Servis
1. Service of Interntoal ExperU
Ewahtlon                                              S                                                    4,650.00     4,650.00     6,200.00    15,500.00     4.992.0     5.084.78     0.934.75    17.011.62
2. Servce of Local Esparts
Mrontoring                                                                                                 2,500.00    5000.00      2.500.00    10,000.00     2,631.20    5,272.90     2.843.03    10,547.13
Evaluation                                            S                                                           -     5,000.00     5.000.00    10.000.00           -     5,272.90     5,20.60     10.558.95
Audk                                                  $                                                           -     S,000        5000.00    0.000.00            -      S,272.90    5,286.00    10.55.9$
Subtotal Servces of Local Expnas                                                                             2.50000     15000.00     12500.00     30.00000      2.831.20   15,81.869    13,215.14    31.65.03
3. Training
a. Training Local
Tnrvw                                               S                                                    2,700.00     5,400.00     2.700.00    10,800.00     2,848.40    5,719.45     2.873.94    11,441.79
Per Oil                                            S                                                     2,300.00     4,800.00     2.300.00     9.200.00     2,426.41    4,672.13     2.446.17     9,746.71
Traorng Supplies                                    S                                                      500.00     1,000.         500.00     2.000.00      527.4      1,059.18       532.21     2,118.85
Subtotal Trining Local                                                                                      5500.W     11,000.00     5,500.     22.00000     5.802.29    11,50.74     5354.32     23.307.35
Subtotal Services                                                                                             12,650.00    30.60.00    24200.00    87.500.00    13,425.58    32,554.20    26.004.21    71.94.00
Total rwes_nt  Coosts                                                                                           41,655.50    85,0e7.00    53.208.50    183,534.00  45,90039     9.480.24     59.557.19    203,9171.2                            I"
IL Recurunt Cos
A. Loal Staff Salaries snd enefts                                                                             21,63750     43,275.00    21,837.50    0,s550.00    22,719.38    45,43S.75   22,719.38    90.77.50
B.EquipcmosoRenlal, fol& .rLandLevilrt                   S                                                    34,083.25    99,10.50     34,093.25    136,333.00   37.,45 91    76,291.15   38,521.53    152,658.59
C Vehide Mailnenarce                                     S                                                     8.0000      12,000.00     8.000.00    24,000.00    6,e83568    13,545.39     6.871.97    27.110.92
D. Fwl for Trensportation
Petrol                                                 5                                                     5,00.0W    10,000.00      5,000.00    20,000.00    S65915      11,191.69     5,651.09    22,394.98
Disel                                                  S                                                     3,000.00    8o00050.      3,000.00    12,000.00    3,331.18     6,715 13     3.390.06    13,4#.97
Subtotal Fuel foTransportaion                                                                                  500000      13,00000     950000       32,00500     *8,83.17    17,907.01     9041.75     35,831.93
E Trva                                                   5                                                     5,000.00    10.00000      5.000.00    20.000.00    5,551.98    11,191.88    SS1.09      22,304.98
F.PerDiem                                                S                                                     5,000.00    10,000.00     5,000.00    20,000.00    5.55198     11,191.88     6,851.09    22,394.96
G. Cormmunicatios                                        S                                                     8,000.00    13,000.00     8,500.00    26,000.00    7,200.68    14,487.09     7.297.32    26,985.06
M. Renl and Utilitias
OioceReol                                              S                                                     4,680.00     9,380.00     4,690.00    18,750.00    5,185.57    10,452.99     5.265.29    20,913.85
Waler                                                  S                                                       135.00       270.00      13500        540.00       149.55       300.89       151.50       02.00
Elecdridy                                              S                                                     1,900W.0     3,800.00     1,900.00     7600.00     2,104.81     4,234.89    2,133.06     8,472.50
Subtotal Rent nd ULtilits                                                                                      6,725.00    13,450.00     6,725.00    29,900.00    7,449.94    14,99S56      7,549.92    29,999.41
1. 00 eMainlenance                                      S                                                     1,450.00     2,900.00     1.450.00    5.800.00     1,617.61     3,273.47     1,660.73    6,551.81
3. Oifce Supples                                         S                                                     3,250.00     9,598.00     3,250.00    13,000.00    3,638.35     7,03.86      3,759.15    14,781.35
K. Dil lor Generator                                     S                                                      950.00      1,900.00      950.00     3,800.00     1,049.94     2,108.23     1,059.35     4,217.52
L Equipment
1. Consruction Equipmnn
ToohS900ts                                            S                                                   29,550.00           -                  29,550.00    33,081.01          -            *    33.0e1.01
L Office Equipment
Copy Macshines                                      each          7        -       -        7   1,000      7,000.00           -                   7,000.00     7,754.58                       -      7,754.50
Typewrier                                           each          7        .       -        7      150      1,050.00          -            -      1.050.00     1,183.19          -                   1.163.19
Teiephores                                            $                                                      210.00                        .       210.00       232.6 4                        ,       232.04
Helron                                              ech          It        .       .       15      30        450.00                        -       450.00       40.51            .                    498.51
Generators                                          each          7        .       .        7   2.WW0    14,000.00            -                  14,000.00    15,09.18           ,                  15,509.18
Comrwaernd Pdnra Sets                               eadh          4        .       .        4   2.900      11,600.W                               11,00.00   12,550.45                             12.850AS
Subtotal Otice Equipment                                                                                    34.31000            *                  34,310.00    30,008.52                       .     38 00 52
Surbtot quip.r-Ct                                                                                             53,00.00            *                 93.86O 00    710t9,53                               71,099.53
M. FumKitu
ChairslTables (3120)                                   5                                                     3.9W00.0                               3.90000     4,320.41                               4,320.41
Fie Cablrs                                            each         10       -                10    200       2,000.00           -            -      2,00000     2,215.59                               2.215.5
Subtotl umntum                                                                                                 5,900.0            .            .      5,98.00     8,526.00           -            .      e,536.00
TolR ecurent Costs                                                                                             1685575    197,191.50    98,595.75   484,143.00   1i5,98.032   217,807.27    109753.27    513418.57
Tot                                                                                                             210,014.25    285,851a.5    151,8O4.25   047.677.00    231,728.41    318,207.52    169,340.47    717,336.39
Pag I



DT7.XLS
Taliistan
Pilot Poverty Allevlation - March 5,1997
Table 7. Future Sponsored Programs
Detailed Costt
(USS)
Ouantities             Unit                       Base Cost                                  Totals including Contingencies
Unit   1997    199S    1999    Total   Cost        1997         1998         1999         Total        1997         1998         1999        Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Unspecified AcUvitles
1. Goods
Constrtuction Materials          $                                                 43,696.00    174,784.00    218,480.00    436,960.00  48,917.35    198,550.79    252,707.14    500,175.29
Office Equipment                 $                                                 30,000.00    120.000.00    150,000.00    300,000.00  33,701.74    137,180.84    175,198.85    346.081.44
Vehides                          $                                                 15,000.00    60,000.00    75,000.00    150,000.00   16,870.36    68.734.33    a7,882.73    173,487.42
Other equipment                  $                                                 10,000.00    40,000.00    50,000.00    100,000.00   11,233.91    45,726.95    58,399.62    115,360.48
Subtotal Goods                                                                       98,696.00    394,784.00    493,480.00    986,960,00    110,723.36    450,192.92    574,188.34  1,135,104.63
2. Sauvices
Experts international            $                                                 35,000.00    140,000.00    175,000.00    350,000.00  37.574.90    153,090.11    195,738.80    386,403.81
Expers Local                     S                                                 30,000.00    120,000.00    150,000.00    300,000.00  31,574.43    126,549.48    158,581.70    316,705.61
Subtotal Services                                                                    65,000.00    260,000.00    325,000.00    650,000.00  69,149.32    279,639.59    354,320.50    703,109.42
Total                                                                                    163,696.00    654.784.00    818,480.00  1.636,960.00    179,072.68    729,832.52    928.508.84  1.838,214.04
Page 1



DT_e.XLS
Tajikiatan
Pilot Poverty AMeviaton - March 5,1997
Table 8. Integrated Evaluation of PPAP
Detailed Coats
(US$)
Quantie                Unit                     Bae Cost                                 Totals Includng CottnUeneies
Unit   19S9    19S99    1S99    Total   Cost      111T        19Ul        1919         total       199T        1995         1m          Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Services of Intemational Experts                                                        24.000.00    24.000.00    32,000.00  80,000.00    25,765.64    26,244.02    35,792.24  87,801.90
B. Serices of Local Experts               S                                                 6,000.00 _6,0O.00       8,000.00    20,000.00    6,314.89    6,327.47    8,457.69    21,100.05
Total                                                                                        30,000.00    30,000.00    40,000.00    100,000.00    32,080.53    32,571.49    44,249.93    tO0.901.95
ON
Page 1



0Dt9.XLS
TakjikWwta
Pikl Poverty AllvIaton - March 5, 1997
Table 9. AudKt of PPAP
Debaled Costs
(USS)
Quanttes                Unit                   Bse Cost                               Totals Including ConUngencies
Unit    1997    1998    1999    Total    Cost    1997         1991        1999          Total      1997       1998        199l         Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Servces of Intematnonal Expefts          S                                                           75,000.00    75.00000    150,00000         -    82012.56    83,888.06    165,900.62
Total                                                                                                 -    75,000.00    75,000.00    150,000.00       -    8201256    83888.06    165s,0.62
I-
an
Page t



ANNEX N
TAJIKISTAN: POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN (March 5, 1997)
Procurement       Proposed        Estimated       Method of      Preparation    Issue of        Bid            Contract       Delivery/        Construction    Construction   Construction
Package           Number          Total Costs     Procurement   of Bid Does./   Bid Does./    Evaluation/    Award            Acceptance       Phase I         Phase 11      Phase III
of Packages    (US S)                          TOR             RFP           Proposal                                        (200 houses)    (1000         (800 houses)
Evaluation                                                    houses)
Civil Works                                                         _
Microprojects     several              1.18          SNCB        April 1997      May 1997       June 1997      July 1997      Dec. 1997
average mproj.                                                                                              For first 3
US$ 35,000                                                                                                  microproj. 
Microprojects    several              0.68             NS        Subject to
under US$                       Minor Works  identification
30,000
Comm. Related    several              0.10         Community    Subject to
under US$                          Related     identification
10,000
Goods
Construction
Materials                                                                                                                                                                                       a
Timber                  1             0.17             IS         March 1997    April 1997      May 1997       May 1997       Aug 1997         Oct 1997
(200 houses)                                                     __
Roof Tiles              1             0.10             DC                                                                     Aug 1997        Oct 1997
(200 houses)
Timber                  1              1.54           ICB        April 1997      July 1997      Sept 1997      Oct 1997       Jan 1998 (11)                   Oct 1998       May 1999
(1,800 houses)                                                                                                                Aug 1998 (III)
Roof Tiles              1             0.86            ICB                                                                                                     Oct 1998       May 1999
(1,800 houses)
Misc. Constr.        several          0.33             NS
Matefials
Future                  1             0.32            ICB        To be
Sponsored Prog                                                   deternined
Agricultural         several          0.09             IS        April 1997      May 1997       June 1997      July 1997      Aug 1997
Items                                 0.02             NS
Office Equip.           4             0.47             IS                                                                                                         _
Other Equip.            2             0.12             IS                                                             _
Vehicles                2             0.35             is
Fumiture                l             0.02             NS                                            _



- 159 -
ANNEX N (Cont.)
TAJIKISTAN: POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN
Procurement      Proposed        Estimnated      Method of      Preparation    Issue of       Bid            Contract       Delivery/     Construction    Construction   Construction
Package          Number          Total Costs     Procurement   of Bid Docs./   Bid Docs,/    Evaluation/    Award           Acceptance    Phase I          Phase II       Phase III
of Packages    (US 5)                         TOR             RFP           Proposal
Evaluation
Consulting
Services &
Training
Intl. NGO
Programs                                                                      _
SCF-US                 1              0.81           Sole                                                     April 1997
Housing Rehab.                                      Source
SCF- US                I              0.81           Sole
Micro-credit                                        Source
SCF-UK                                0.70           Sole
Female Hshld                                        Source
Support 
AK-Foundation                         0.58           Sole
Agric. Reform                                       Source
Future Programs      To be            0.70           Short
determined                        List                          _
Institutional        several          0.41           Short      April 1997      May 1997    June 1997        July 1997
Development of                                        List
TASIF                                                                                                                                                                                  ..
TASIF                several          0.49           Short      Subject to mp
Microprojects                              _          List      identification
TASIF                  1              0.11           Short        May 1997    June 1997       July 1997      Aug. 1997
Integrated Eval.                                      List
TASIF Audit             1             0.16           Short         Oct. 1997    Nov. 1997     Dec. 1997      Jan. 1998
List
Miscellaneous                                                                        _
Loan/Grant                            0.56       To follow                                                    April 19 97
Funds                                            procedures
stated in their
programs and
agreed by
IDA__                                            _  _  _    __  _  _  _   __  _  _   _
Operating Costs/                      0.99       As stated in
Staff Salaries                                   Operational
Manual and
agreed by DA                                                                             _



- 168 -
ANNEX 0
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1.    The Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project (PPAP) would increase the incomes of some of the
poor in Tajikistan and improve their access to essential economic and social services. This would
be done by (a) scaling up selected existing NGO programs that are having a positive impact on
poverty alleviation, and (b) developing the Tajikistan Social Investment Fund (TASIF) as a
demand driven, cost-effective and transparent funding mechanism that would respond to proposals
from the local level to carry out small investments in social and economic infrastructure. It would
also finance the implementation of 70 microprojects throughout Tajikistan.
Implementation Arrangements
2.    The executing agency for the PPAP would be the newly established TASIF. The TASIF
would be created by Presidential Resolution with the necessary autonomy and authority to enable
it to execute the project according to the Legal Credit Agreement. The TASIF would operate
according to a detailed Operational Manual which would provide information on the organization
and structure of the TASIF. A draft of the Operational Manual would be prepared by TASIF
prior to Project Effectiveness based on those used in other social funds and input from the World
Bank and technical assistance. The Operational Manual would detail the implementation
arrangements for microprojects as well as the responsibilities of the TASIF in monitoring,
supervision and reporting on the NGO programs supported by the PPAP.
3.    The TASIF would enter into service contracts with each of the NGOs to be supported
through the PPAP. Attachments to the service contracts would stipulate the procedures,
benchmarks and monitoring indicators to be followed by the NGOs for implementation of the
NGO programs. Currently the TASIF Executive Director and the leadership of the NGOs are
finalizing the details of the proposals and reaching consensus on the delegation of responsibilities
for financial management, monitoring and reporting.
Procurement and Disbursement
4.    Given the nature of the project, it is difficult to estimate of procurement and disbursement
procedures and schedules. These would be discussed with the World Bank mission and the NGOs
during the forthcoming appraisal mission. The procurement arrangements for the NGO programs
would be specified in attachments to the service contracts. Procurement arrangements for the
microprojects and purchasing of equipment, furniture and consulting contracts would be specified
in the Operational Manual.



- 169 -
Financing
5.    The total project costs are estimated at US$11 million, of which IDA would finance
US$10 million. The Government of Tajikistan and communities would contribute to the costs as
well.
Project Accounting and Monitoring
6.    By project effectiveness, the TASIF would have hired staff and acquired equipment and
technology to enable it to monitor and account for the use of PPAP funds. External auditing
would be conducted on an annual basis. A beneficiary impact assessment would be undertaken
to understand the impact of the project on poor communities.
Completion of the PIP
7.    The TASIF will complete its Project Implementation Plan by appraisal of the project. The
TASIF will specify critical factors that could affect the success of the project, the role of the
World Bank during project implementation, and a detailed schedule of implementation
activities.



- 170 -
ANNEX P
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule (US$12 million)
Bank Fiscal Year and         Disbursements           Cumulative Disbursements
Quaner                         by Quarter                by end of Quarter
1997
4th Quarter                        0.2                         0.2
1998
1st Quarter                        0.2                         0.4
2nd Quarter                        0.4                         0.8
3rd Quarter                        0.7                          1.5
4th Quarter                        1.1                         2.6
1999
ist Quarter                        1.1                         3.7
2nd Quarter                        1.2                         4.9
3rd Quarter                        1.3                         6.2
4th Quarter                        1.4                         7.6
2000
1st Quarter                        1.1                         8.7
2nd Quarter                        1.1                         9.8
3rd Quarter                        0.1                        10. 9
4th Quarter                        0.1                        12.0



- 171 -
ANNEX 0
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
Proposed Supervision Schedule
Date                           Activity                        Skill Requirements              Staff Input
April 1997               Project Launch                           1. Task Manager                           12
2. Procurement and
Disbursement Specialist
3. Social Funds Specialist
4. NGO Program Specialist
August 1997              First Supervision                        1. Task Manager                           12
Focus on TASIF development, operating   2. Social Funds Specialist
procedures, monitoring, evaluation and  3. NGO program Specialist
reporting                               4. Monitoring and Evaluation
Specialist
December 1997            Second Supervision                       1. Task Manager                           9
Focus on targeting, beneficiary         2. Social Funds Specialist
assessment, microprojects, programming    3. NGO Program Specialist
of unprogramed funds
April 1998               Mid-term Review                          1. Task Manager                           12
2. Social Fund Specialist
3. NGO Program Specialist
4. Monitoring and Evaluation
Specialist
August 1998              Third Supervision Mission                1. Task Manager                           9
Focus on microprojects                  2. Social Fund Specialist
3 NGO Program Specialist
December 1998            Fourth Supervision Mission               1. Task Manager                           9
Focus on microprojects, lessons learned    2. Social Funds Specialist
3. NGO Program Specialist
April 1999               Project Implementation Review            1. Task Manager                           3
SW Totals
FY97               FY 98               FY99
12                 33                  21



- 172 -
ANNEX R
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILES
TITLES                                                 AUTHORS
Assessment (a) and Advisory Report on
Direction of OIP's Program
Implemented by Relief International,
August 31 1995                                         UNHCR, Tajikistan
Children and Women in Tajikistan - A                   UNICEF Program
Rapid Assessment - Team                                Planning Team
Civil War in Tajikistan: Ameliorating its              Schoeberlein-Engel,
Consequences Through Participatory                    John S. Prepared for the
Mechanisms                                             World Bank
Concept Paper On Employment Creation                   SCF - US
Through Micro-credit Program, Draft (for
discussion)
Conflict in Tajikistan and Central Asia                Schoeberlein-Engel
The Myth of Ethnic Animosity
Counterpart Consortium, Central Asia                   Counterpart Consortium
NGO Support Initiative, Information
Demographic, Mortality, Nutrition and                  Aga Khan Foundation -
Immunization Survey in Gorno                           financed by Phillippe
Cavailler
Badakhshan, March 1995                                 and Serge
Employment Generation Through Credit                   Mercy Corps
For Small Business and Agriculture,                   International
Funding Proposal for $5.9M
Evaluation of U.S. Private Voluntary                   USAID
Organizations Working in Tajikistan
Through USAID Grant Agreement,
Semi final Draft, January 23, 1996,
Confidential
Family Budgets - Statistical                           Goskomstat
Information, 1993



- 173 -
Feasibility Study on Enterprise                       UNHCR & Save The
Development in the Republic of                        Children/US
Tajikistan, August 18, 1995
Female Head Households Activities                     Save the Children (UK)
Project, Bokhtar District, Tajikistan -               by John Hards, South
Asia
Evaluation of Phase One, August 1995                  Regional Office
Female Heads of Households Economic                   Save the Children
Activities project Needs Assessment                   Children - UK
Report (Undertaken from Dec. 20, 1994 -
Jan 17, 1995) - Bokhtar District, Khation
Province - Tajikistan
Group Guaranteed Lending & Savings                    Save the Children
Fund/US - TFO -
Program (GGLS Program) - Information                  Kurgan-Tube
Packet, August 31, 1995
Independent Evaluation of the UNHCR                   Peduzzi, Carolyn S.
Small Enterprise Development (SED)
Projects in Tajikistan, Dec. 14, 1995
National Economy of Tajikistan in 1993,               Goskomstat
1995
Rapid Food Security and                               Care International and
the Center
Nutrition Assessment - Tajikistan,                    for Disease Control and
Prevention,
August, 1994                                          funded by USAID
Republic of Tajikistan - Human                        GOT, UNDP
Development Report 1995
Rural Development Program for                         Aga Khan Foundation
Strengthening Private, Voluntary                      USA and PRDP
Initiatives in Tajikistan. Mid-term
Evaluation
Selected International Humanitarian                   USAID
operations in Tajikistan, Population
Displacements (as a result of the 1992
civil war), 1995
Situation Assessment of Water Supply,                 International Rescue
Sanitation, Shelter, and Community                    Committee



- 174 -
Infrastructure in Returnee Areas of
Khatlon Province - The Republic of
Tajikistan - 23 August - 3 September, 1993
Social Security, Education and health                 Newell, Andrew
Care in Tajikistan - Notes by Andrew
Newell dated August 24, 1995 sent by fax
to Robert Liebenthal
Strengthenning Private, Voluntary                     Aga Khan Foundation
Initiatives in Tajikistan. Mid-tern
Evaluation. Subgrant Nimber: NIS-2022-00-17
September, 1995
Tajikistan Country Health Development,                WHO/Euro
Summary information on Countries,
September 15, 995
Tajikistan Feasibility Study on Enterprise            UNHCR & Save The
Development, August 18 1995                           Children/US by
Ellen Pruyne
Tajikistan Pamir Relief and Development               Aga Khan Foundation
Program, Exec. Summary of Aga Khan-
Khan Presentation on DEC. 15, 1995
Tajikistan Rapid Assessment of the                    UNICEF, New York,
Situation with Respect to Water,                      Water and
Environmental
Sanitation and the Environment                        Sanitation Section by
undertaken November 5-19, 1993,                       Vanessa J. Tobin
Nov. 20, 1993, revised Jan. 7, 1994
Tajikistan Rehabilitation, Reconstruction             UNDP
and Development Program, Draft
Program Outline
Tajikistan Social Protection Reform                   IMF, Fiscal Affairs
Options and Budgetary Implications,                   Ke-young Chu (Head),
October 1995                                          Gerd Schwartz and
John Turner
Tajikistan Survey of the Household and                Save the Children/US
and Bazaar Economies Jan. 1996                        by Robert M. Birkenes
Women's Economic Survey sponsored                     Tadjbakhsh, Shahrbanou
by UNHCR, implemented by Relief
international, Draft, August 18, 1995



MAP SECTION






IBRD 28399R
KAZ-A~KSTAN   j   69                          ~->.^',A6j                                                                TAJIKISTAN
PILOT POVERTY
ALLEVIATION PROJECT
~~ ~~~ ~~~         0,O \~ [           AH                                              Shelter and House                            a     Autonomous Oblast Centers
*>-  |       HZ   JAN-            o Xrf  UZBEK.                             Rehabilitation Program                             Oblast Center
J >$ KHOD)AND (k_                                  _       Micro-credit Program                               National Capitol
UZBEKISTAN          ZARAOBOD                                                KNKoBODM                               Support to Female-headed                           Autonomous Oblast Boundaries
*  ~ ~ ~  ~     fr.fe..                 L~~~~~~~~~~~1 ~Housekolds Program                          Oblast Boundaries"
*>z   <~     > -                                  ______ISFARA   ~-   l   |   Agricultural Reform and        International Boundaries
ISFARA                       g~ Sed Multiplication Program
URA-            PROLETARSKI                      c...
v) 4tX J   ) !           <1_         t-J                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~An oblost ,s nonnd rnly wohen n  nomeo d,ffe,s i-m thor oE,pt ndn,n,,,osiecnlon
SHA HRIS TON A* b\|                                                                                    -d -l            d4lf  _  .-
/ <9   )                         ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~ ~~~KYRGYZ  REp.  72                         T. Cih           <
,     PENJIK6EN          LENINAB  D
~~~~~~~~~~OBLAST _                                              GARM |30u   
AINI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ HN
-39~                                                    !J_ .. -,-- , -  *                                     IRGITAL                                                                                      39 3
SH A 1 IR 1 NA V    S   VA R  08 5   j SKOFAMIHON                                                                      Karakul
SH-AHRINAVTVLOR
TURSUNZADER'            /       Du  anbe                        .(
l*> >-eJ_<2 ~~~HO VA IING zVNHt
SHYAVANT                                                        /                                                      t v3jph>Tyu-e _ 9> SHMURGAO
L  ~~~~   ~~' ~~~Q~~~KNO1ABGO NO
>~ ~ ~w2J   ~  KUMSANGIR o,>> /      gt/           ~                     <            , M N                                                                   I
~~~~~_~IHSHAARUZM                                                   f~- AASHUGAN
A  F G  H A  N  I S T A  NG                                                                                                UZREKISTAN
Th,, m=p os produced by fhe                                                                                        ,.0                             _                              t              / -
M=p Deign Uml of Thn Wod(                                                                                                                                                          L. ,-.
b=nL The bo-ndJn ,coIon,           0             50           100           150 KILOMETERS                                                                  TURKMENISTAN  t          '     b -   KYRGYZ REP
denom,ntI,ons ond ony oth-r                                                                                                                                                                     KYRYZ REP   .  .
,nfo,,noo,on oho,n on fine nap                                       II\I/_\\                                                                                                      _>
The Wo,Id aonk Gopny                                     50 100 MILES                                                    PAKISTA N                                             0honbs   Af -
audgnen,t " or 9E=ngo enande or                                                                                                                    ISLAMIC REP                               - 5-sL <, >/ \ A  '-R.  CHINA
or--ccepeonc- of-such b-und.r-el          69                                                       ;                   72                             OF IRAN            --AFGHANISTAN   (-
FEBRUARY 1997









IMAGING
Report No.:         16082   TJ
Type:     SAR



