Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 2946 TJ
Development Credit Agreement
(Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 28, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2946 TJ 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated April 28, 1997 between REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS:  (A)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
Page  2
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of 
the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit Account, the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals 
with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount 
of the Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Framework Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between TASIF 
and an Implementing Agency, for purposes of carrying out a Microproject or a Sponsored 
Program (both as hereinafter defined) on terms and conditions as specified in the 
Operational Manual, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(b)
“Implementing Agency” means a local government, non-governmental 
organization, Microproject Committee or other organization which meets all eligibility 
criteria under the Operational Manual and is responsible for carrying out a 
Microproject or a Sponsored Program under a Framework Agreement with TASIF;
(c)
 “Microproject” means a subproject eligible, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual, for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
and in respect of which TASIF has entered into a Framework Agreement;
(d)
"Microproject Committee" means a committee established in accordance with 
the provisions of the Operational Manual for carrying out Microprojects;
(e)
“Operational Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the Association, 
containing eligibility criteria and appraisal, approval and supervision rules and 
procedures for Microprojects and Sponsored Programs, as well as other administrative 
rules to be followed by TASIF, as the same may be amended from time to time by 
agreement between the Association and TASIF;
(f)
 “Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 6.01 (d) of 
this Agreement;
(g)
“Special account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
Page  3
(h)
“Sponsored Program” means a program to be financed, on an agreed basis, 
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the proceeds of funds provided by international 
non-governmental organizations participating in the Project; and
(i)
“TASIF” means Tajikistan Social Investment Fund established pursuant to 
Government’s Resolution No. 55, dated January 27, 1997. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eight million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 8,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 2007 and ending January 1, 2037.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 1, 2017 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
         (b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
Page  4
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred,provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through TASIF with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, environmental and engineering practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purpose of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Page  5
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause TASIF to maintain records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause TASIF to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
TASIF to:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Condition, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Operational Manual, or any 
provision thereof, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived 
in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of TASIF to carry out 
the Project. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have opened the Project Account in 
a commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association with an 
initial deposit in local currency equivalent to $75,000.
Page  6
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
3 Kuibyshev Street
Dushanbe, 734025
Republic of Tajikistan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
By /s/ Rashid Alimov 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Johannes Linn 
Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
          Credit
     % of
Page  7
  Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in
           to be 
Category
SDR Equivalent)
          Financed
(1)
Works under
 
   1,160,000
85%
Part B of the Project
(2)
Goods
   3,210,000
100% of the 
foreign expend-
itures, 100% of 
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) 
and 80% of local
expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally
(3)
Technical 
   3,170,000
100%
assistance and
training
(4)
Incremental operating
     450,000
100%
costs of TASIF
 (5)
Unallocated
     710,000
TOTAL
   8,700,000
  ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means incremental operating costs 
of TASIF incurred on account of the Project, including: (i) staff salaries and 
allowances (provided, however, that civil service officials of the Borrower may be 
considered TASIF staff for this purpose only if relieved of their governmental 
responsibilities and assigned to TASIF on a full time basis); (ii) office maintenance, 
transport, utilities and telecommunications; and (iii) office equipment and consumable 
supplies. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (i) for Microprojects and 
goods under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; (ii) for services provided by 
consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $30,000 equivalent; and (iii) for 
services provided by individual consultants under contracts not exceeding $10,000 
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to increase on a sustainable basis the incomes 
of the poor and improve their access to essential economic and social services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Page  8
Part A:
Provision of goods and technical assistance required for the carrying out of 
existing and future poverty alleviation programs as Sponsored Programs, with the 
participation of international non-governmental organizations, selected in accordance 
with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual in the following 
areas: (i) shelter and house rehabilitation program; (ii) micro-credit program; (iii) 
female-headed households support program; (iv) agricultural reform program; and (v) 
future programs as agreed with the Association.
Part B: 
1.
Strengthening of TASIF's operational capacity through the provision of technical 
assistance, training and equipment. 
2.
Provision of goods and technical assistance, and carrying out of works required 
for the implementation of about 70 Microprojects, for rehabilitation and restoration 
of small-scale social and economic infrastructure and services for the poor, selected 
in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual.
* * * * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999. 
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995, revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
 Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or more per contract and $1,180,000 
equivalent or more in the aggregate may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Page  9
Works estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract, and not to 
exceed $680,000 in the aggregate, may be procured under lump sum, fixed price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotations for the required work, and who has the experience and 
resources to successfully complete the contract. 
3.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or less per contract and $1,240,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract and $390,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.
Direct Contracting 
Construction materials which should be procured to repair civil war damage and 
costing $100,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines. 
6.
Community Participation
Works in remote areas where contractors are not available estimated to cost 
$10,000 equivalent or less per contract and $100,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to all contracts for goods to be awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of Part B.1 and the first five contracts to be awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Part C.1 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first five contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of each of Parts C.2, C.3, C.4 and all contracts under C.5 of this 
Schedule, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to selection of any contractor for contracts to be awarded 
in accordance 
with the provisions of Part C.2 or any supplier under 
shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on 
the comparison and evaluation 
of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall 
Page  10
provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the 
draft contract; and
(iii)
in addition, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f) and 2(g) 
and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.  Employment of Consultants 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.  Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $30,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $10,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall cause TASIF to ensure that: 
(a)
Microprojects and Sponsored Programs are identified, appraised, approved, 
implemented and evaluated in accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to 
in the Operational Manual and the applicable Framework Agreement; and 
(b)
TASIF’s operations shall be carried out in accordance with the procedures 
set forth or referred to in the Operational Manual. 
2.
The Borrower shall cause TASIF to carry out, on an annual basis, an independent 
technical and procurement review of implementation of Microprojects, with specific 
focus on community related procurement and disbursement, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association. 
3.
Prior to approval of Microprojects estimated to cost more than $50,000 
equivalent, the Borrower shall cause TASIF to furnish to the Association the draft 
Framework Agreement in respect of any such Microprojects for the Association’s review 
and approval.
4.
The Borrower shall:  
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
Page  11
furnish to the Association, on or about July 1st of each year, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30, 1998, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
5.
By December 31, 1997, the Borrower shall cause TASIF to: (a) have a targeting 
strategy, satisfactory to the Association, which would reflect poverty level, 
geographic, ethnic balance and infrastructure rehabilitation needs to guide the 
implementation of Part B of the Project; and (b) furnish the Association with a 
proposal, for its review and comments, for the allocation of funds for future 
Sponsored Program under Part A of the Project.
6.
Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain the Project Account referred to in Section 
6.01 (d) of this Agreement, and shall replenish said account promptly before each 
quarter with sufficient funds to enable the Borrower to meet its obligations under 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement; (ii) use said account exclusively for financing the 
Borrower’s contribution to Project expenditures; and (iii) ensure that sufficient 
annual allocations will be made in the Borrower’s budget for the Borrower’s 
counterpart contribution to the costs of the Project.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), and (4) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent to SDR 700,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
Page  12
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Credit 
Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Page  13
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
