Document of
The World Barnk
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
ReporA No. 14887
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INDIRA SAROVAR HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 2416-IN)
(CREDIT 1613-IN)
(SPECIAL FUND CREDIT SF.20-IN)
JULY 24, 1995
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
South Asia Country Department II
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES AND ABBREVIATIONS
Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs)
Exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report Rs 10.0 = US$ 1
Year                                        RuDees/USS          SDRIUSS
1983 (Project Preappraisal Starts)          10.10               1.069
1984 (Project Appraisal)                    11.36               1.025
1985 (Project Approved and Becomes Effective)  12.37            1.016
1986                                        12.61               1.174
1987                                        12.96               1.293
1988                                        13.92               1.345
1989                                        16.23               1.282
1990                                        17.50               1.357
1991                                        22.74               1.368
1992                                        25.90               1.410
1993                                        26.20/30.50         1.397
1994                                        31.40               1.432
1995                                        32.30               1.538
Average Rate during project implementation period: US$ 1= Rs. 21.60
Government of India and MPEB Fiscal Year: April 1 - March 31
Measures and EaQuvalents
1 Kilometer                      = 1,000 meters (m) = 0.6214 miles (mi)
lMeter(m)                        = 30.37 inches(in)
1 Cubic meter (m3)               = 1.31 cubic yard (cu yd) = 25.25 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 Hectare (ha)                   = 10,000 m2 = 2,471 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)                  = 2.2046 pounds (lb)
I ton (t)                        = I metric ton = 2,200 lb.
I Kilocalories (kcal)            = 3.968 British thermal unit (Btu)
1 Kilovolt (kV)                  = 1,000 volts (V)
1 Kilovolt-ampere (kVA)          = 1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
1 Megawatt (MW)                  = 1,000 Kilowatts (kW) = 1 million watts
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)            = 1,000,000 kilowatt-hours (kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEA          :     Central Electricity Authority
CWC          :     Central Water Commission
DOE          :     Department of Environment
DOF          :     Department of Forestry, Government of India
DRP          :     Dam Review Panel
GOI          :     Government of India
GOMP         :     Government of Madhya Pradesh
GSI          :     Geological Survey of India
IBRD         :     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA          :     International Development Association
LRMC         :     Long Run Marginal Cost
MPEB         :     Madhya Pradesh Electricity Board
NHPC         :     National Hydro-Electric Power Corporation
NTPC         :     National Thermal Power Corporation
PAP          :     Project Affected Persons
R&R          :     Rehabilitation and Resettlement
REB          :     Regional Electricity Board
REC          :     Ruml Electrification Corporation
SEB          :     State Electricity Board



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
INDIRA SAROVAR HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 2416-IN)
(CREDIT 1613-IN)
AND
(SPECIAL FUND CREDIT SF. 20-IN)
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION   SUM M ARY ................................................1I
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .................................................4
Evaluation of Project Objectives .................................................4
Project Context  .................................................4
Accelerating Power Development and Production .................................................4
Project Achievements .................................................5
Overview ....5.............................................5
Physical Objectives ................................................5
Bodhghat Hydroelectnc  Power Plant Component .................................................5
Environment, Resettlement and Rehabilitation .................................................6
Restructuring of the Project .................................................7
Pilot Therm           a        l Plant Rehabilitation Component .................................................8
Procurement  ................................................                                                                                                9
MPEB's Financial Perfornance .................................................9
Economic Perfornance ................................................                                                                                        10
Macroeconomic Performance ................................................                                                                                   10
Institutional Development ................................................                                                                                   10
Major Factors Affecting Project Performance .................................................                                                                            10
Factors Within  the            Scope of Govemment Control ................................................ 10
Factors Within the Scope of GOMP Control .................................................11
Sustainability ................................................. 11
Bank Group Performance ................................................                                                                                     12
Borrower Performnance ................................................                                                                                       12
Assessment of Outcome ................................................                                  .                                                                 12
M ain  Findings  and  Lessons Learned ..................................................................................................... 13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.



PART II:      STATISTICAL SUMMARY  ..................... 14
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan and Credits Disbursements
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:      Studies included in the Project
Table 7A:     Project Costs
Table 7B:     Project Financing
Table 8:      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:      Bank Resources
Table 11:     Proposals for Private Power Project in Madhya Pradesh
Table 1 2A:    Detail Implementation Schedule - Pilot Thennal Rehabilitation
Table 12B:    Detail Implementation Schedule - Data Processing Facilities
APPENDIX 1: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR .22



INDIA
INDIRA SAROVAR HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 2416-IN)
(CREDIT 1613-IN)
AND
(SPECIAL FUND CREDIT SF 20-IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric
Project"' in India. Ln. 2416-IN in the amount of US$157.4 million, Special Fund Credit SF-20-
IN, and IDA Credit 1613-IN, in the amount of SDR134.4 million (US$143 million equivalent),
were approved on May 17, 1984.
On June 13, 1988, the Bank and the Association canceled US$139,974,974 under Ln.-
2416-IN, and SDR 108,989,000 under SF. 20-IN, following cancellation, upon mutual agreement
with GOI, of the hydro-power plant component of the project. Thus, the loan amount and the
credit amount were reduced to US$17,425,026 and SDR25,41 1,000, respectively, for the
implementation of the remaining components of the project. The loan was closed on June 30,
1993, against the original schedule of September 30, 1991. The credits were closed on June 30,
1994, against the same original schedule. Total disbursements under the loan, the special find
credit and the IDA credit were US$9,077,807, SDR510,678 and SDR5,346,361 equivalent
respectively. The undisbursed balance of US$8,347,219 equivalent was canceled on November 3,
1993. The undisbursed balances of SDR12,500,322 of SF 20-IN and of SDR7,053,639 of
Cr. 1613-IN were canceled on October 31, 1994, and November 16, 1994, respectively, following
closing of the loan and the credits.
The ICR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and III) was prepared by the Energy
and Infrastructure Operations Divisions, Country Department II of the South Asia Regional
Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
Preparation of this ICR by the Bank and the Borrower commenced during the Bank's
completion mission in November 1994. It is based on the revised guidelines for ICRs, the Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 4909-IN), the Loan and Project Agreements, the Credit Agreements,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank
memoranda.
I/    The project was formerly called the Bodhgaht Hydroelectric project, but in honor of Mrs. Indira Gandhi,
the name was changed to Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric project.



I



INDIA
INDIRA SAROVAR HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 2416-IN)
(CREDIT 1613-IN)
AND
(SPECIAL FUND CREDIT SF 20-IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Objectives
1.    The original objectives of the project were: (i) to assist the Government of India (GOI) in
meeting the electricity demand in the State of Madhya Pradesh and in the Western Region of India
through the addition of 500 MW of hydro-power capacity; (ii) to assist GOI in achieving more
efficient use of existing thermal power stations through the implementation of a pilot program of
thermal plant rehabilitation in Madhya Pradesh; and (iii) to improve Madhya Pradesh Electricity
Board's (MPEB) operations by expanding and modernizing its data processing facilities.
Restructuring of the Project
2.    The project became effective on June 18, 1985. The Project's hydro-power component
was estimated to cost about US$637.6 million out of a total project cost of US$722.8 million.
Following public concern with the environmental and rehabilitation and resettlement (R&R)
impacts of the Indira Sarovar dam and the associated hydropower plant, it was agreed with GOI
in June 1988 to cancel this component. Consequently, Bank funding was reduced from
US$344.2 million to about US$45 million. (About US$299.6 million equivalent, at the current
exchange rate, was canceled). The remaining project components included renovation of three
aged MPEB thermal power plants, including consultancy services for the same, and upgrading of
the data processing facilities in MPEB.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    Ln. 2416-IN was closed on June 30, 1993, and the Credits 1613-IN and SF-20-IN were
closed on June 30, 1994. Implementation of the physical components of the thermal plant
rehabilitation was also delayed because: (a) Central Electricity Authority (CEA) drew out the
clearance of the award to a foreign consulting firm for more than two years; (b) several candidate
units were available for component inspection much later than planned due to MPEB's inability to
shut down the units in the face of pressing demand for power; and (c) the procurement process
took significantly longer than planned. The implementation of the software development and
training in the data processing facilities component were not financed by the credits. Because of
implementation delays, the restructured project was scheduled to be completed only by the end of



- 2 -
1996. The financial covenants provided for MPEB to earn a minimum rate of return of 3% on its
investments. This was only accomplished with subsidies from the Government of Madhya
Pradesh (GOMP). Since 1991, GOI's policy has been that the agricultural tariff be raised to a
minimum of 50 paise/kWh. In February 1994, GOMP abolished the agricultural tariff altogether
for pump sets less than 5 HP, in contravention of the stated policy of GOI, even though a
government comprising the same political party as in the Center had just taken office in the State
of Madhya Pradesh. The Bank therefore, decided not to entertain GOI's request for further
extension of the closing date for the Credits. During the first half of 1994, the Bank was engaged
in a delicate policy dialogue with GOI on the need to restructure the state power sector. The
refusal of extending the closing date of the credits meant to reinforce the Bank's message, that we
would not get involved in states which do not apply rational tariff policies.
4.    As of credit closing (June 1994), none of the original or restructured project objectives
had been achieved. The pilot thermal rehabilitation component was only 40% complete, and the
upgrading of the data processing facilities was approximately 60% complete. MPEB is continuing
the implementation of these components with its own resources.
Main Findings and Key Lessons Learned
5.    The State Power Sector in India needs to function on commercial principles. The original
objectives of the project were very narrow. The performance of the subject project and other
SEB projects has had the Bank to shift its strategy to advocate radical restructuring of the State
Power Sector in India.
6.    Careful project preparation is key to the success or failure of a project. First, the project
was approved, and its implementation started without agreement on the design basis of the dam.
The project was processed for a loan before review of the design by experts. The expert
committee made various recommendations for changes in the design which CWC contested.
MPEB and the Bank agreed on a concrete dam, while the CWC insisted on a rock-fill dam, the
design for which was developed by CWC itself, thus resulting in long delays. Second,
environmental impacts of the project were assessed and resettlement and rehabilitation plans for
the Project Affected Persons (PAP) were detailed, but public consultations were not held nor the
required clearances were taken from all stakeholders. The Department of Forestry (DOF) and the
PAPs raised objections after project implementation had already started. The lack of resolution
on these two key issues led to the cancellation of the hydropower component of the project.
7.    Clear definition of the roles and functional responsibilities of concerned government
agencies is critical to successful project implementation. CWC and CEA had the responsibility to
oversee the implementation of the project, but both got mired in trying to find active roles for
themselves in project implementation with the result that the project suffered inordinate delays.
8.    Strict adherence to Bank Standard Bidding Documents saves time. Procurement of goods
and services under the rehabilitation and data processing upgrade components of the project could
be completed very expeditiously owing to the use of the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents,
which drastically reduced the review and approval time. The entire procurement process went on



- 3 -
very smoothly. The above lessons have been taken into account in recent Bank operations in
India. Preparation of bidding documents for major contract packages in accordance with the
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for the Procurement of Works and Goods, is now a
condition of loan negotiations.
9.    The project implementation delay has been extremely expensive for MPEB. If the
projected capacity improvements and efficiency gains are quantified, the loss would equate to
roughly one billion rupees a year, or approximately 600 GWh of energy, based on an
improvement of 5% in generation efficiency at an average plant load factor of 60%.






- 4 -
INDIA
INDIRA SAROVAR HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 2416-IN)
(CREDIT 1613-IN)
AND
(SPECIAL FUND CREDIT SF-20-IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Project Context
1.   In the 1950s and 1960s, both installed capacity and power generation managed to keep
pace with the nation's demand for power, growing at an average annual rate of about 11%. Since
1970, however, the situation deteriorated. Delays in the commissioning of new power plants,
operating and maintenance problems which were mostly due to lower than expected coal quality,
and insufficient investment under severe budget constraints, led to a critical shortage of power.
As of March 1983, India's total installed generating capacity, including non-utility power stations,
was about 38,100 MW. As a result of accelerated agricultural development, there was a
remarkable growth of power consumption in the rural areas where more than 80% of India's
population lived. India's national power plan indicated that over the thirteen-year period from
1981-1994, utility generating capacity should grow at an average annual rate of about 9.5%, to a
total of about 106,000 MW. Of this, about 59,000 MW (56%) were to be thermal, 44,000 MW
(41%) hydroelectric, and 3,500MW (3%) nuclear.
Accelerating Power Development and Production
2.    In September 1982, the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) completed a I5-year least-
cost expansion plan for the regional power systems in India. The results of the plan indicated that
in general, among the different options, the one emphasizing hydroelectric power development
was usually the least-cost solution. The Bodhghat Hydroelectric Project, as it was called at that
time but later renamed as the Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric Project, was compared with other
options, such as a coal-fired thermal power plant, and a gas turbine plant for peaking capacity,
and was reconfirmed as the most-preferred solution.
3.    The Western Region, in which the project is located, comprises the states of Gujarat,
Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and the Union Territories of Goa, Daman and Diu, and Dadra and
Nagar Haveli. In 1983, the total installed utility capacity in the Western Region was about 10,045
MW, out of which 1,841 MW was shared by MPEB that included as much as 90% in thermal



-5 -
power generation by plants owned and operated by MPEB. Although interconnections between
states in the region had been established, operations were not yet fully integrated due to
operational constraints in Madhya Pradesh.
PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS
Overview
4.    The primary objectives of the project were not achieved. Due to environmental concerns
raised after project implementation had already commenced, the hydroelectric power component
of the project was canceled. However, implementation of the remaining sub-components included
in the original scope of the project, comprising a pilot program for rehabilitation of MPEB's
thermal power plant and upgrading of data processing facilities, continued. But even these sub-
components could not be implemented in full due to substantial delays that occurred in project
implementation and because the Bank could not accept Government of India's request for a
further extension of the loan and credit closing dates owing to unacceptable sectoral policies of
GOMP with respect to agricultural tariffs. The remaining work in respect of power plant
rehabilitation, as well as the data processing facilities upgrade, continue to be implemented by
MPEB with the help of other available resources.
Physical Objectives
5.    The primary objective of the project was to assist Government of India to expand the
country's power supply at least cost by optimizing the development of India's hydroelectric-power
potential. The project, located in the Bastar district in the State of Madhya Pradesh, was designed
to increase the power generation capacity in the Western Region, and in the State of Madhya
Pradesh in particular, through the construction of a 500 MW hydroelectric station on the Indravati
river, at Bodhghat.
6.    In addition to the primary objective of increasing the generating capacity of the state and
the Region, the project was also to support the following objectives:
(a)   more efficient use of existing plants, through the implementation of a pilot
program of thermal plant rehabilitation in Madhya Pradesh and;
(b)   improving the efficiency of MPEB operations by expanding and modernizing its
data processing facilities to cope with commercial and managerial needs of MPEB.
Bodhghat Hydroelectric Power Plant Component
7.    After site investigations spanning over several years, the project was formally adopted by
Government of India in 1979. The Central Water Commission (CWC) was responsible for the
civil engineering aspects of the project and CEA for the electrical and mechanical design. Both
organizations had experience in similar projects as they had served, for several decades, as the
engineers for many hydroelectric-power and irrigation schemes in India. The engineering for the



- 6 -
hydroelectric plant, with detailed construction drawings, was completed, albeit a delay of about
two years, at a level sufficient to permit invitation of bids.
8.    During appraisal in June 1983, the Bank used specialists in geology, hydrology and
concrete dams to assist the mission in carrying out the technical review of the project. It was
concluded that the project was technically sound and the proposed layout and design of the
project was endorsed. However, to ensure design quality and least-cost development, the Bank
requested a thorough techno-economic review of the proposed project, pursuant to which MPEB
appointed a Dam Review Panel (DRP) in July 1983. The DRP consisted of independent experts
to oversee the technical design and construction aspects of the project. The panel, in its first
meeting in August 1983, concurred with the general layout of the project, but recommended a
number of design modifications, as well as location of the dam, to improve the reliability and
economy of the project. A major modification proposed was a change of the gravity rock-fill
structure design for the dam to a concrete structure.
9.    Based on the DRP recommendations, the Bank requested a change in the dam
construction methodology from gravity rock-fill to concrete. The study for this change in design
showed that costs vs. benefits would be almost the same; however, the concrete dam would have
definite advantages over the rock-fill design in such areas as leakage, earthquake protection, and
stability against soil settlement. In particular, the construction period promised to be significantly
shorter. MPEB also agreed to change the design of the dam in accordance with the DRP
recommendations. CWC, however, continued to advocate the original plan because neither CWC
nor local contractors had enough experience in the design of concrete structures. CWC' s
overriding interest appeared to be to ensure that the civil works contract, as well as the
consultancy thereof, were captured by local contractors only. As a matter of fact, CWC wanted
to secure the consultancy contract for itself which caused a serious conflict of interest. CWC's
continued opposition to accepting the proposed design changes caused lengthy project delays. In
the end, however, CWC relented, but simultaneously, new concerns were raised in respect of the
environmental impacts of the project.
Environment, Resettlement and Rehabilitation
10.   Based on the initial environmental impact assessment (EIA) and an agreed rehabilitation
resettlement plan (R&R), the project had been cleared by Government of India's Department of
Environment, the Department of Forest and Wildlife, and the Wildlife Wing of Madhya Pradesh
State Forest Department, and the Bank. However, when it was thought that the controversy over
the design of the dam had been resolved, the Government of India Department of Forest raised
fresh environmental concerns. It contended that the forest area to be lost by submergence
following the construction of the dam, could not be compensated and that this would inflict
unacceptable misery on the Project Affected Persons (PAPs), whose livelihood depended on the
forest resources, notwithstanding the fact that much of their operations comprised illegal logging.
The project would have affected about five percent of the forest area in the region. The issue to
be resolved was whether the reforestation plan proposed by the Government of Madhya Pradesh
(GOMP), was adequate to compensate for the forest lost to the project; in particular, could the
Sal trees be reproduced artificially (a hardwood used for furniture and construction and



constituting about 20% of the trees projected to be lost). Sal is not an endangered species, but its
artificial reproduction has been somewhat unsuccessful. As a consequence of the uncertainties
raised by the Government of India Forest Department and the unanswered questions, MPEB
suspended the implementation of the entire project in October 1985, just before the award of
major civil works contracts was to be made.
11.   During appraisal, the Bank accepted Government of India's estimate that 2300 families,
75% of whom were tribals, would be affected by the construction of the dam and the
hydroelectric power station. MPEB had prepared the R&R plans setting priorities for the transfer
of the PAPs in a sequence consistent with the progress of construction of the project. In 1982,
GOMP constituted a rehabilitation committee chaired by the Bastar Divisional Commissioner to
implement the R&R plans. This committee was represented by district level officers for Revenue
and Tribal Welfare, other concerned departments and elected representatives of the PAPs. MPEB
had selected four adjoining tribal areas where state land was available to compensate those
affected by the project. Sufficient provision for funding was made in the project estimates for
acquisition of land and properties, as well as for the construction of housing and related
infrastructure facilities, to relocate and resettle the PAPs.
12.   Pursuant to a request from the Department of Forestry (DOF) under agreement with the
Bank, in December 1985, MPEB furnished a report on the detailed R&R plan for the PAPs as
well as for forest and wild life protection. The report contained considerable details regarding
physical works, implementation schedules and cost estimates. The report also proposed a fully
staffed unit under the Chief Engineer of Indira Sarovar Project to carry out the proposed plan.
However, in the absence of public consultation and the lack of dissemination of information, the
PAPs expressed serious concerns with the social and environmental impacts of the project. Also,
interdepartmental clearances within the government hierarchy had not been secured. The lack of
resolution of this issue led to the cancellation of the hydroelectric power component of the
project.
Restructuring of the Project
13.  In light of the environmental concerns raised by the DOF and the PAPs, Government of
India appointed a group of experts to undertake a fresh review of the proposed project, which
was completed in late 1986. The findings of the reassessment were submitted to Government of
India's Cabinet Committee for a final decision. In mid 1987, the matter was referred to the Prime
Minister's Office which commissioned the Secretary of Environment to chair a task force
responsible for making a final recommendation. Finally, Government of India canceled the
hydroelectric-power component of the project in June 1988, followed by the amendment of the
agreements in February 1989. As a consequence, the Bank canceled US$139,974,974 equivalent
from Loan 2416-EN, and US$108,989,000 from Special Fund Credit SF20-IN. The remaining
components, the thermal plant rehabilitation and upgrading of the data processing facilities,
continued to be implemented.



- 8 -
Pilot Thermal Plant Rehabilitation Component
14.   Recognizing that the rehabilitation of older, derated power plants can restore design
capacity as well as efficiency at a much lower cost per kW of installed capacity than new power
plants, and in light of the prevailing situation where a number of generating units in the MPEB
utility system were suffering from loss of design capacity and performance efficiency, MPEB
prepared a tentative rehabilitation plan for its thermal power plants including cost estimates,
during appraisal. This assessment was used in defining the scope of the rehabilitation component
of the project, and the identification of the rehabilitation programn along with an implementation
plan. However, much of the generating equipment as well as the auxiliaries included for
rehabilitation, were of foreign origin. The inspection methodology for rehabilitation also required
certain special tests and procedures for which local capability was yet to develop. The Bank
therefore, required the appointment of consultants with international experience in power plant
rehabilitation. Based on Bank procedures for the selection of consultants, Bechtel Overseas
Limited was selected. But CEA withheld approval of the consultancy services. The reason for
CEA's resolute refusal to approve the contract was that it believed the expertise to be provided
under the contract was already available in the country and that CEA itself was qualified to
provide the services. Once again, the conflict of interest issues were totally ignored. It was only
after the Bank indicated that the loan would otherwise be canceled if the selected consultant's
contract was not approved did CEA finally approve Bechtel's contract. Two precious years were
lost in this process.
15.   In accordance with their terms of reference, Bechtel had responsibility to identify
candidate units for rehabilitation based on a thorough analysis of the operating history of the
individual generating units and actual performance tests, followed by inspection and metallurgical
assessment of the equipment components. The findings helped develop a more definitive
identification of equipment repair, replacement or upgrade options, and the finalization of the
scope and timing of the rehabilitation program, albeit some delays. Generating units at Satpura,
Korba and Amarkantak power stations were included in this rehabilitation program.
16.   Implementation of the physical components of the thermal plant rehabilitation was
considerably delayed because: (a) some candidate units were offered for component inspection
much later than planned due to MPEB's inability to close them in the face of pressing demand for
power; and (b) the procurement process took remarkably longer than planned. For example, bids
for the consulting services for thermal plant rehabilitation and upgrading of the data processing
facilities were invited on January 22, 1986, and February 15, 1986, respectively, while the actual
awards were made on May 15, 1991 and December 13, 1991, respectively which was caused by
CEA's refusal to approve the appointment of international consultants. The final report by the
consultants on the diagnostics was submitted in December 1992, except for one unit in Korba
power station (Unit 5), which could not be offered for inspection as scheduled. The consultant's
report in respect of this unit was submitted in March 1993. The bidding process for the required
equipment, parts and instrumentation proceeded expeditiously and was completed by the end of
June 1993, at which time the Loan 2416-IN was closed.



17.   The upgrading and expansion of MPEB's data processing facilities was also designed to be
carried out with the assistance of qualified consultants in defining the scope and priority of
proposed new computer applications or the expansion of existing ones. Additional objectives
included formulating a plan to implement the recommendations, including the selection of
appropriate computing software and hardware; establishing a training program for MPEB staff;
and implementing the expanded data processing system. The selected consultant, TCS, submitted
its final report to MPEB in December 1993. However, computer technology is continuously
evolving in terms of both hardware and software and this has induced redesign of the system to
keep abreast of the state-of-the-art technology. When completed, this system is designed to
provide an effective management interface with MPEB's commercial accounting system.
Procurement
18.   For the pilot thermal rehabilitation and the data processing facilities components, the Bank
guidelines were strictly adhered to by MPEB for procurement against twenty contracts involving
international competitive bidding. This was facilitated by the use, without exception, of the
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for the Procurement of Goods. All contract awards,
however, were won by local firms for an amount estimated at US$12.39 million. The average
procurement time per contract--from the issuance of bid documents to contract award--was
remarkably rapid and smooth. Detailed implementation schedules until the completion of the
project components are shown in Table 12A and 12B in Part III.
MPEB's Financial Performance
19.   Under the Loan Agreement, MPEB was required to achieve a contribution to investment
of not less than 20% of average capital expenditure in FY88 and subsequent years, which was
later amended to achieving a 3% ROR. In general, the ROR is a 'profit performance' criterion,
and is a useful measure of a mature utility's performance under normal operating conditions. The
criterion is not a direct indicator of cash generation. Furthermore, the criterion rapidly loses its
significance when the utility is saddled with very high debt service charges and has difficulties with
revenue collection, manifested by high levels of accounts receivable. In addition, the criterion has
room for manipulation of the result by changing the depreciation rates, and by claiming 'paper'
subsidies which invariably are not paid in full, nor in a timely manner. Under these circumstances,
the utility could well provide a satisfactory ROR (or 'paper profit'), but be short of cash to pay
even its debt service charges.
20.   During FYI 984/85, MPEB's financial performance was relatively satisfactory, with a rate
of return of 10% and a self financing ratio of 16%. The target self financing ratio of 20% by FY87
was achieved with an increase in tariffs by an average of 12.8% in FY85/86. This situation,
however, quickly deteriorated due to inadequate and infrequent tariff increases. During FY89
through FY91, MPEB barely achieved the 3% rate of return, clearing the statutory requirement of
the Electricity Supply Act of 1948. But in the FY93 and FY94, GOMP had to provide MPEB
with a rural electrification (RE) subsidy of a total of Rs 4.06 billion to enable MPEB to earn the
required 3% ROR. The account for FY94/95 have been finalized and GOMP has agreed to
provide a RE subsidy of Rs 3.2 billion to enable MPEB to earn the required ROR. The tariff
structure itself imposes severe burdens on industrial consumers, while favoring the largest



- 10 -
consumer group, i.e., the agricultural consumers. Instead of any effort to correct this situation,
and in violation of specific Government of India recommendations to impose a minimum of paise
50/kWh as the tariff for the agricultural sector, GOMP lifted the agricultural tariff on February 1,
1994, and raised the industrial tariff to off-set the loss of revenue.
Economic Performance
21.   The economic benefits arising from the expansion of hydroelectric power potential was
estimated at appraisal as about 11% on the internal rate of return, which was likely to be
significantly higher if consumer surplus was fully taken into account and indirect benefits accruing
to the Indian economy were considered. However, this exercise was no longer relevant with the
cancellation of the hydroelectric power component of the project.
22.   The thermal rehabilitation component was designed to serve two objectives, namely,
restoration of lost capacity and improvement of thermal efficiency. Both of these could have
helped MPEB in generating revenue, if the project components were implemented as planned.
The loss, if quantified, would amount roughly to one billion Rupees a year, or approximately 600
GWh per year of energy, based on 5% gain in generation efficiency at an average plant load factor
of 60%.
Macroeconomic Impact
23.   The project would have met the demands of unserved power in the region. Critical
shortages of power resulted in frequent load shedding, brownouts and imposition of limits of
power consumption by the industry. The cumulative loss suffered by the national economy as a
result of the cancellation of the hydroelectric power component of the project has been colossal.
Institutional Development
24.   The project included a study of electricity metering practices, designed to provide the
basis for the formulation of a rational metering policy. MPEB had billing and collection problems
stemming from their current metering practices, even though the problems were not as acute as in
some other SEB's of India. The study was completed and workshops were held in February 1993
for Phase-I and in July 1993 for Phase-LI to impart training to the MPEB staff.
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT PERFORMANCE
Factors Within the Scope of Government Control
25.   The hydroelectric power plant design: CWC was about two years behind schedule in
completing the design of the rock-fill dam. Since this organization was primarily responsible for
designing hydroelectric power projects in India, its accumulated backlog appeared to impact on
its performance. Also, CWC's persistent refusal to accept the recommended design change for
the dam, which indicated positive benefits, was difficult to explain. Government should have
intervened immediately to break the impasse.



- it -
26.   Environmental Impacts: The environmental concerns raised by the Department of
Forestry after project implementation had already started, indicated a lack of interdepartmental
coordination within the Government. This matter should have been fully resolved at project
appraisal stage.
27.   Power Plant Rehabilitation: CEA took more than two years to approve the consultancy
contract for this project sub-component. Its desire to secure the consultancy contract for itself,
presented a serious conflict of interest issue. The implementation of power plant rehabilitation
was thus unnecessarily delayed for which the economic price to pay has been very heavy. In this
case also, Government should have intervened to remove this bottleneck.
Factors Within the Scope of Government of Mahya Pradesh Control
28.   ROR covenant and agricultural tariff MPEB was able to meet the ROR covenant with
increasing Government subsidies. Effective steps to adjust the tariffs to lower cost of supply were
not taken in a timely manner. Also, in violation of the Government of India recommendation to
have a minimum tariff of 50 paise/kWh for the agricultural sector, MPEB abolished the
agricultural tariff completely. This was one of the contributing factors for the refusal by the Bank
to entertain Government of India's request for further extension of the loan and credit closing
dates.
SUSTAINABILITY
29.   The power plant rehabilitation component, even though incomplete at the time the loan
and the credits were closed, are clearly sustainable because of the inherent benefits it is expected
to bring. The generating units included in the rehabilitation scheme will regain lost capacity as
well as performance efficiency. The data processing facility upgrade, when completed, will
similarly improve MPEB's efficiency in terms of management control and the supervision of
commercial accounting operations.
30.   Under the legal covenants of the loan and credits, MPEB was also required to raise the
level of consumer cash security deposits to reach the equivalent of two months sales by the fiscal
year 1989/90. This covenant was satisfied. Bill collection proceeded in a satisfactory manner for
new consumers.
31.   In order for GOMP to reduce arrears in electricity bill payments of its departments and
undertakings, GOMP has decided to pay to MPEB Rs 15 million every month against an average
monthly bill of Rs 13 million. However, this measure would not help reduce the receivables
within a reasonable time-frame. Even though there is a commitment to restore the agricultural
tariffs in a year's time, uncertainty remains. Meanwhile, there are no plans to increase tariffs in
the near future to help reduce government subsidies.
32.   The implementation by MPEB of the commercial accounting system (CAS) started in
April 1985, albeit at a slow pace. The consultants completed their work in August 1986,
compared to the original schedule of January 1986. MPEB established a CAS implementation
team consisting of experienced accounting staff and consultants to assist in solving problems



- 12 -
arising in headquarters and field offices during the period of implementation. However, because
of the delay in implementing the data processing facility upgrade, the CAS interface with the
system could not be provided. This interface is yet to be accomplished.
Bank Group Performance
33.   The performance of the Bank in respect of project preparation and appraisal cannot be
qualified as satisfactory. Specifically, appraisal was unsatisfactory because the project was
processed, negotiated, and presented to the Board for approval without ensuring environmental
and design issue clearances from all concerned departments. Also, after cancellation of the
hydroelectric component, the Bank should not have waited for as long as two years for CEA to
agree to the consultancy contract for power plant rehabilitation. These components should have
been canceled as CEA's posturing indicated a total lack of interest in implementing the plant
rehabilitation program and the upgrading of MPEB's data processing facilities. However, once
these remaining components were finally cleared by the CEA, project implementation by MPEB
went on smoothly and expeditiously. The Bank maintained excellent relations with the beneficiary
throughout the execution of this part of the project despite some inevitable tensions created by the
eventual decision of the Bank not to extend the loan and credit closing dates.
Borrower Performance
34.   The performance of GOI institutions was inadequate. Both CWC and CEA caused long
project delays. The position taken by CWC regarding the design of the dam and the position
taken by CEA regarding the consultancy contract were both undermined by conflict of interest.
These agencies finally agreed to proceed with project implementation in accordance with agreed
principles only after the Bank threatened cancellation of the loan and the credits. Regarding the
environmental management requirements, the uncertainty over the construction of the
hydroelectric component of the project was the result of inadequate preparation and lack of
interdepartmental consultation within the government. Also, adequate public consultation should
have been held with the affected communities to convince them of the benefits of the project and
gain their confidence. In the end, the environmental concerns raised by the Government of India
Department of Forestry and the PAPs led to the costly cancellation of GOMP MPEB the
hydroelectric component of the project.
35.   GOMP followed inadequate tariff policies which led to the progressive weakening of
MPEB's finances. In the end, the politically based decision of canceling agricultural tariffs on
pumps of less than 5HP led to the closing of the credit before any component was completed.
MPEB attempted to implement the project within the constraints of limited autonomy.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
36.   The outcome of the Project is unsatisfactory because it has failed to meet the primary
objectives of the project.



- 13 -
MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED
37.   The key lessons that emerged from the Project are the following:
*  The original objectives of the project were very narrow . They reflected the Bank's approach
to power sector lending in India at the time. The loan performance of the subject project and
other SEB projects has had the Bank to shift its strategy to advocate radical restructuring of
the state power sector in India.
* Careful project preparation is important to the ultimate success or failure of the Project.
The design of the dam was performed by CWC, but the technical parameters and construction
methodology were not reviewed by an independent panel of experts. This review was
undertaken after project appraisal that resulted in the recommendation by the committee to
change the basic design of the dam from rock-fill to concrete structure. This was contested by
CWC with resulting uncertainties and long delays.
*  Environmental assessment and resettlement and rehabilitation plans must be completed and
finalized before project appraisal. Even though the EA was done and R&R plans were
developed, adequate public consultation was not held with the PAPs, nor were inter-
departmental clearances obtained to firm up the plans. DOF raised concerns with regard to
the project's environmental impacts after project implementation had already commenced.
The lack of resolution over this issue as well as over the design of the dam led to the
cancellation of the hydroelectric power component of the Project.
*  Roles and responsibilities of Stakeholders should be fully defined at the project preparation
stage. Overlapping responsibilities created major confusion in the implementation of the
project. The responsibilities of CWC and CEA should have been defined and their respective
roles as central organizations overseeing project implementation should have been fully
delineated to avoid the conflicting positions taken by these agencies.
Strict adherence to the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents saves time. Procurements
under the rehabilitation and data processing upgrade components were completed very
expeditiously. While MPEB has a lot of credit to take for this outcome, it was possible only
because MPEB used the Bank's SBD for Goods and for Works which drastically reduced the
review and approval cycle of the bidding documents. It is for this purpose preparation of
bidding documents in accordance with the Bank's SBD has now been made mandatory in
recent Bank operations in India for all contract packages financed by the Bank.



- 14 -
PART 11: STATISTICAL TABLES
t                               :- :Tablel:: :ummaryo Asses              
A. Achievement of Objectives                  Substantial     Partial    Negligible   Not applicable
Macro policies                              O           O           O          a
Sector policies                             O           O           a          U
Financial objectives                        O           a          *           o
Institutional development                   O           *           O          a
Physical objectives                         O           *           O          O
Enviromnental objectives                    O           *           O          O
Public sector management                    n           a           o          U
Private sector development                  O           O           O          U
B. Project Sustainability                         Likely            Unlikely       Uncertain
*                  O               O
C. Bank Performance                               Highly
Satisfactory        Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                              O                  *               a
Preparation assistance                      E                  *               O
Appraisal                                   O                  E
Supervision                                 E                  *               E
Highly
D. Borrower Perfonnance                         satisfactory       Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                                 O                  *               °
Implementation                              E                  E
Covenant compliance                         E                  *               E
Highly     Likely to be                Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome                    satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatsfadory Unsatisfactory
O            E               O           E
+   This assessment is only for the Pilot Thermal Rehabilitation and Upgrading of the data processing facilities
component.



- 15-
. abh 2. h~ted Raa~ 1M~Cs*dt. .
None.
. .   E E   :-E -   . E .   !:.. . . . . . .   .  ..   .   . . .   . . .   .   . . ..  .   . .   . .   . .   . . .   .   . .   . . . .
Item                      Date Plauned          Date Revised          Date Actual
Identification                                                                            Sep-82
Preparation                                 Spring 1983                                   Jun-83
Pre-appraisal mission                          May-83
Appraisal mission                              Jun-83                                     Oct-83
Loan/Credits Negotiation                       Apr-84                                     Apr-84
Board Approval                                                                           17-May-84
Loan/SF Credit Signature                                                                 1-Mar-85
IDA Credit Signature                                                                     24-Sep-85
Loan/SF Credit Effectiveness                 31-Aug-84                                   18-Jun-85
IDA Credit Effectiveness                                                                 7-Nov-85
Cancellation of the Indira Sarovar                                                       1 3-Jun-88
Hydroelectric Power Project Component
Loan Closing                                  30-Jun-92            30-Jun-93             30-Jun-93
CreditsClsg30J-930J-930Jn4



- 16 -
T tbl 4. Loan and Ctts Demeni
Cumulative,  tImaed and Actul-
Estimated in SAR (million US$)  Actual (million US$)   Actual % of Estimated
Bank Fiscal Year   Semi-annual Cumulative            Semi- Cumulative      Semi- Cumulative
and Semester                                      annual                annual
1985 - I                      3.2        3.2             0.4       0.39       12.3          0.1
- II                    21.2        24.4            0.0         0.4       0.0          0.1
1986-1                        21        45.4             1.7        2.1        8.0          0.7
- II                      18        63.4             1.5        3.6       8.3           1.2
1987 - I                      27        90.4             0.8        4.4        3.1          1.5
- 11                      30       120.4            0.5         4.8        1.5          1.6
1988 - I                      36        156.4            0.2        5.1        0.6          1.7
-II                       27       183.4            0.3         5.3       1.0           1.8
1989 - I                      33        216.4            0.1        5.4        0.2          1.8
- II                      36       252.4            0.1         5.5       0.2           1.8
1990 -I                       12       264.4             0.0        5.5        0.2          1.8
-11                       12       276.4            0.0         5.5       0.0           1.8
1991 -1                        9       285.4             0.0        5.5        0.0          1.8
- II                       6       291.4            0.0         5.5       0.0           1.8
1992 - I                       3        294.4            0.5        6.0       17.4          2.0
-II                        6       300.4             1.9        7.9      31.4           2.6
1993 -I                                                  1.2        9.1                     3.0
- 11                                                0.5         9.6                     3.2
1994 - I                                                 0.0        9.6                     3.2
-II                                                 2.1        11.7                     3.9
1995-I                                                   3.3        15.0                    5.0
TablS. KNdidators for ft  Oct 
Key Indicators for project implementation and operations were not defined in the Staff Appraisal Report
or the President's report at the time of the Loan approval in 1984.



- 17 -
Table 4. Studies.lueluded in theP ro  i      ;:
No.   Title of Study          Objective                          Status   Impact of Studv
1.    Review the design      The main purpose of e panel was to    Done    Not applicable to the
concept of the dam and   review the design concept of the dam     project due to
associated structures.    and its associated structures and the   hydroelectric power
adequacy and, safety of their design.      cancellation.
2.    Impact on ecology due    The ecological back trop area,   Done    Reported to the
to Bodhghat project    configuration, geology, rock and soil      government for
climate, water regime, land use and        conclusion.
forest, forest survey results, wild life
status, project impact on biotic
environment, on biotic environment
mitigating the impact.
3.    A study of impacts of    Survey the Flora and Fauna and to  Done    Reported to the
Bodhghat Hydel project  examine in particular the likely          government for
upon wild life and     impact on wild buffalo conservation in     conclusion.
related human aspects   the area.
with special reference to
wild buffalo
conservation in Bastar.
4.    Study report on         1. Likely effects on the ecology on the  Done    Reported to the
anticipated.          loss of centuries old, natural,             government for conclusion
multistoried, thick and diverse
vegetative cover existing over a large
contiguous area.
2. Likely success of the effort for  Done    Reported to the
regeneration of SAL needs to be            government for conclusion
established to the full satisfaction of
the efforts.
5.    Ecological impact of    a) Impact on environment covering    Done    Reported to the
Bodhghat project. A    all component like forest, wild life,      government for conclusion
review                 microclimate of the region etc.
b) Impact on the social-cultural and    Done    Reported to the
economic life of populace of regions.      govermnent for conclusion
c) Proposed rehabilitation plans for    Done    Reported to the
the families which would be                government for conclusion
displaced.
d) Development effects of the dam.    Done    Reported to the
government for conclusion
e) Broad assessment of the benefits    Done    Reported to the
and cost of the project.                   government for conclusion



- 18 -
6.     I.S.H.P. - An            A study of Flora/Fauna in the         Done    Reported to the
environmental appraisal  submergence area to particularly               government for conclusion
identify endangered species.
7.     Life assessment study    Extension in schedule life,           Done    Identified candidate power
for Pilot Thermal       improvement in PUF, availability and            plants for rehabilitation
Rehabilitation           safety measures recapturing of lost
generation capacity.
8.     Coal sampling and        To assist life extension program      Done    Identified candidate power
testing                  recommended by Bechtel. Coal                   plants for rehabilitation
quality improvement.
9.     Life assessment study    To carry out non-destructive testing  Done    Identified candidate power
for TG sets.             and various other special test to assess       plants for rehabilitation
condition of machine and residual life.
10.   Identification of needs    Identification of information needs to   Done    Identified necessary
for upgradation of data   top, middle and base levels of                hardware and software
processing unit of       management in various functional
MPEB (Phase I).          areas of generation, transmission,
distribution, materials management,
finance and accounts, construction,
personnel and planning and
identification of computer applications
necessary to fulfill the information
and operational needs. Tangible and
intangible benefits to be derived from
various applications and modifications
of existing computer applications with
a view to integrate these with overall
objectives of Board's data processing.
Planning for             Recommendation of the priority for
implementation (Phase   the computerization of various
II)                      identified applications and formulate
of plan of action on the basis of
approved priorities.
11.    Workshop on metering    Phase I: Focused principally on       Done    Successfully trained
billing and collection   defining the problems besetting the            MPEB's staff.
SEB in this important revenue related
area.
Phase II. Focused principally on the    Done
solutions to the identified problems.



- 19 -
Estimated '                     Actual *
Rs Million      US$ Million    Rs Million      USS Million
Total             Total         Total            Total
Land and Relocation                  220.0               22.0           9.7             0.4
Preliminary Works                     143.0              14.3          28.8              1.3
Dam                                  1875.5             187.6          13.9             0.6
Water Conductor System               492.8               49.3          30.4              1.4
Power House Civil Works               108.9              10.9          50.2             2.3
Tail Race Duct and Channel           236.5               23.7           0.0             0.0
Miscellaneous Civil Works             22.0                2.2           0.0             0.0
Turbo-generators and Auxiliaries     1501.9             150.2           0.0             0.0
Station auxiliary Services            98.1                9.8           0.0             0.0
Step-up Transformers                  89.3                8.9           0.0             0.0
Switchyard and Transmission           67.6                6.8           0.0             0.0
Lines
Thermal Plant Rehabilitation         350.0               35.0        1464.7            46.6
Training, Consultation and DPU        30.0                3.0         408.7             13.0
Upgrading
Total Base Cost                     5235.6              523.6        2006.3            65.8
Physical Contingencies             578.6              57.9          12.3             0.4
Price Contingencies               1413.7             141.4           0.0              0.0
Total Project Cost                  7227.9              722.8        2018.6             66.2
Interest during construction           0.0                0.0         287.2             9.1
Bank                               414.1              41.4           0.0              0.0
Other                             1728.9             172.9           0.0              0.0
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan             4.0                0.4           0.0             0.0
Total Financing Required            9374.9              937.5        2305.8            75.4
* This is for the large project, including Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric Power and the thermal rehabilitation and
update of data processing, etc.
** This is for thermal rehabilitation and update of data processing etc.
IBRD/IDA             US$ 75.4 M
GOMP/MPEB            US$ 60.4 M



- 20 -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                        . .   . .   . . . . . . .           .   . .   . .   . . ..
TaNJ  8: Status                                            .. .. .. .......
Text
Refer.    Description of Covenant                 Comments                         Status
4.02      MPEB to carry out a study on metering   The Phase I of workshop on billing   Compliance
practices in selected states and exchange  & collection was conducted on 5  after delay
views with the Bank on recommendation   and 6 02/93. The Phase II of the
arising from the study.                 workshop was held on 07/93.
2.01b     Madhya Pradesh relending to MPEB under    GOMP relent to MPEB without    Complied
terms acceptable to Bank ( not less than  loan repayment.                partially
7.5% per annum).
2.05d     MPEB furnish a Completion Report to the                                  Complied
Bank within 6 months after closing date.                                 partially
3.02     MPEB shall take out insurance against risks                               Complied
in such amounts as will be consistent with                               partially
appropriate practice.
3.03      MPEB to submit to the Bank certified                                     Complying
financial statements within 9 months of FY
end and auditor's report within 12 months.
3.05     Control energy losses in accordance with                                  Complied
program to be agreed with Bank. RAM
10/92: MPEB to forward to Bank action plan
to reduce T&D losses to 14% in five years.
3.06     Increase cash security deposits to equivalent                             Complied
of 2 months sales by FY90.
3.07     Achieve contribution to investment of not                                 Complied
less that 20% of average capital expenditure
in FY88 and subsequent years (amended to
achieving a 3 % ROR).
RAM I  MPEB to send final documents relating to                                    Complied
(10/92)  commercial section of model bid documents
in respect of Procurement of Goods and
Procurement of Mechanical and Electrical
works for Bank's record.
RAM 2  MPEB's consultants to review technical                                      Complied
(10/92)  specifications for the instrumentation and
control systems. copy of MPEB's proposal
concerning consultant selection to be sent to
Bank.
SAR      Furnish quarterly progress report for quarters  .                         Complied
3.35     by mid-January, April, July and October.



- 21 -
I i:i:0 iii0  :i  ii i:  00 4   0;   i:705Table I9.. Staff Input
Planned                        Actual
Stage of Project Cycle          Weeks           US$            Weeks            US$
Through appraisal                                                     0.4
Appraisal-Board                                                      10.7
Board-Effectiveness                                                  66.6
Supervision                                                          55.6
Cancellation                      14                                  7.7
Total                                                      141
Tabie 10. Economic and Costs and: Beneits
Due to the amendment and cancellations of the loan and the credits during the course of the
implementation, it is not possible to make reasonable IERR comparison between the original and the revised
project scope.
Table 11. Propoals for Private Poe Project: in Madbya Pradesh
S.No.           Names of the Projects         Capacity MW          Name of the Company
1   Gwalior (Diesel PP)                         120      Wartsila Diesel - Finland
2   Ratlam (Diesel PP)                          120      GVK Power Limited
3   Bhilai PPs                                  500      SAIL, Larsen & Turbo, and CEA
4   Tava HEP (Captive)                           12      HEG Ltd.
5   Duel Fuel Naptha based - Gas based          330      SRINV Limited, Bombay
6   Korba East PPS - Coal based                 500      Daewoo Corporation, South Korea
7   Raigarh PPs - Coal based                    1000     Jindal Strips
8   Maheshwar HEP - Coal based                 10x40     S Kumars
9   Korba West Extension U-5&6 TPS             2x210    Mukund Limited
10   Pench TPS                                 2x210    Century Power
11   Bina TPS - Coal based                      1000      Grasim Industries Limited
12   Birsinghpur TPS - Coal based               500      Houston Industries Energy India,
Gujarat & Ambuja Cement
13   Korba West TPS                            2x250    Company name not readily available
with MOP also



INDIA                                    Table - 12A: Detail Implementation Schedule
MPEB - Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric Project
Pilot Thermal Rehabilitation Project Component - Detail Project Implementation
1993                           1994                           1995                          1996
ID    Task Namie                                         Otr1   Qtr2 | Qtr3   Qtr4   OtrI   Qtr12                            | Otr 3   Qtr4    !tri   Qtr12 |ir    Qtr4   OtrI   Qtr2   Qtr3   Qtr4   Qtr I
I    Thernal Power Plant Rehabilitauton
2         Control & Instrumental Equip. (Kota)                                         _  _ _        _ _  _    _  _                                         3/1
3             Lettr of Intent
4             Engineering
6             Procuraeent of raw material
6             Manufaduring
7             Inpectionredting
3             Delivery
9             Installation
10             Ted & Commissioning                                                                                                                         3/1
11        Control & Instru.Equip. (Keltron)                                                                                                                                  9/12
12             Leaer of Intent
13             Engineering
14             Procureient of raw material
r 6l30 . /3
16             Manufacturing
16            Inspection/Testing                                                                  =         3
17             Delivery
18            Insiallation                                                                                                                             1112
19             Test & Commissioning                                                                                                                                         9/12
20        UPS Syst for C&I Eqnip. (Kota)                                                                                                     9/1
21~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
21             Ltfle of Intenit                                          61                                           :. 
22             En&-ning
23             Prw tofrawmatcrial
24~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41
24             Manu&ciPg                                                                       1
Page I



M4
PI
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
.....  .....  ............. ..... ............... .... ......... . ..... ..*  ..      .         ...........* ..   ................
'K
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
.. .. .. . .. .. .. . .  .. . .. .. .  . .. .  . .. .. .. . .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. . .. .. .. . .. ..  .. .. .. . .. .. . .. .  ... .. .. 
.Di
a                                                                  a          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
-u                                                        N                                                      a.. . . . . ... . . . . . .. . . . . ...  . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . .  . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . .
m  a                   a                                                     a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~    a                                                                                                                 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
M   a . . . . . . .  .    .         . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .          . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .x.. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .
CZ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ M



2~3    < 333; 33 ~ 3 ! l *5
;              S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i S I    a
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  rn tF
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
.......   ... ...........  ..  ...........    ..  .....................  ............   ..  ........  .. .... ......  ...  ..
U
a, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
111111~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
.......    ...........................................  ....................................  .  ........  ...  ...........
.......................................................................................................................I
Ct
-d
5        a-a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
.......... ..........................................  ......2 ........2 .........................  . ...........1...  ......c
iz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bh.



INDIA                                 Table - 12A: Detail Implementation Schedule
MPEB - rIdira Sarovar Hydroeectrc Prect
Pilot Thermal Rehabilitaion Project Component - Detail Project Impementation
1993            1            1994            1           1995             [            1996            l
ID   Task Nuns                                        Qtr1  Qtrt2 TQtr 3   Qtr 4           tr1 Otr 2   Qtr 3   Qtr 4   Qtr I  Otr 2 1 Qtr 3 T Qtr 4  Qtr 1  Qtr 2 lQtr 3   Qtr 4 1 Qtr 1
73                                                                           _                                                 *           . n
74            Proiramet of raw nuterial
76            M     a_                                                                 _                      .                            -                             :
75 ~ ~      ~         ~         ~         ~ ~                  w    5/31
76           Inpedion/Tesling
77            Delivery
78           latahltion
79            Tast & Coummissimning                                                     4
Page 4



INDIATal1B:DtiImlmnainShde
MPEB - Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric ProjectTal12:DtiIm eentonShde
Data Processing Facilities Upgrading - Detail Project Implementation
1993                        1994                         1995                         1996                         1997
ID    Task Name                              02     0      Q4    01      02    03    04    01         02    03    04    01         02    03    04    01         02    03    04
I    Development                                                                                                             /1
2         Phase 0
3         Phasel1
4         Phase 2
Phase 3
6         Phase 4
7         Phase5                                                                                                          21
I    Pilot Implementation                                                                                                      2/12______  __
9         Phase 1 flinctions 
10        Phase 2 functions 
11        Phase 3 functions                                                                                          0
12        Phase 5 functions
13
14    Main Imnplemientation                                                                                    __
12/10
15        Phase 1 functions                                                                                1-                           6/10
16        Phase 2 functions                                                                             i:                                     9/10
17        Phase 3 functions                                                                                    +
1s        Phase 4 functions                                                                                                             61
19        Phase 5 functions                                                                                                              /l
Page 1



- 27 -
APPENDIX 1: Borrower Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report
A. Preface
1.    The loan and credits were made to India in March 1985 for on-lending to Madhya
Pradesh Electricity Board via Madhya Pradesh state government. The main objective of the
project was to provide additional power generation capacity in Madhya Pradesh and thereby in
Western Region of India and to strengthen the Board's data processing facilities.
2.    However, at a later stage, the Loan 2416-IN and Credit SF-20 were canceled as Indira
Sarovar Hydroelectric (Bodhghat) Project could not continue due to environmental constraints
and a portion of Loan 2416-IN and Credit SF-20-IN were revived for rehabilitation of thermal
plants and upgradation of data processing facilities. In addition to above Credit 1613-IN was
also revived for meeting the aforesaid objectives.
B. Comments on the Analysis in Part-I
3.    The analysis made by the Bank under Part-I is comprehensive and has covered all the
important aspects and is generally in order. Nevertheless, there are certain issues which need
to be further examined keeping in view the background of developments as they took to better
appreciate the events. These are as follows:
Reference to para 24 and 25:
It is to point out that MPEB took the minimum time for procurement. The consultant's
report for the Pilot Thermal Plant Rehabilitation (PTPR) was received in February 1993 where
as MPEB had already initiated the procurement process. World Bank approval for issue of
Notification for Invitation to Tender (BIT) was received in the last week of January 1993 and
NIT was issued in the second week of February 1993. Bids were opened from March 23,
1993 to March 31, 1993 and bid evaluation reports were sent to World Bank vide our letter
dated May 15, 1993. The World Bank approved the evaluation reports between May 28,
1993 and June 21, 1993. Letter of intents were issued between June 16, 1993 to June 22,
1993. For Data Processing World Bank approved evaluation report on June 22, 1993 and
LOI was issued on June 23, 1993. From the above it is very clear that the work was done
expeditiously.
Comments by Madhya Pradesh Electricity Board and Endorsed by the Government of
India
Environment, Resettlement and Rehabilitation.
4.    In an area of 8149 hectares compensatory afforestation has been completed. The
project involved displacement of 8775 persons comprising of 1748 families (1981 census). An
elaborate report for compensatory afforestation and resettlement of oustees was submitted to



- 28 -
the Department of Environment and Forest, Government of India in Dec. 1986, making liberal
provisions for displacement and rehabilitation including development of a model village for the
ethnic tribal groups coexistence. However, due to abandoning of the project as no
displacement took place, hence resettlement and rehabilitation was not required.
5.    In the context of thermal renovation/modernization and upgrading of data processing
facilities there is no additional impact on the environment, as the work is being carried out at
already existing power houses. As such the question of resettlement and rehabilitation of
population does not arise.
Final Payments
6.    The loan was originally scheduled to be closed on June 30, 1992. Since the project
configuration underwent major revision due to environmental impact of the project and as such
the revised project configuration was approved in February 1989. Thereafter the Bank decided
to extend the loan closing date till June 30, 1993 for Loan 2416-IN and till June 30, 1994 for
Credits. 1613-IN and SF-20 IN. The total disbursements till closing date for Loan 2416-IN is
US$ 9.078 million, for Credit 1613-IN is US$ 5.273 million and for Credit SF-20-IN is US$
0.511 million.
7.    The balance payments to the contractors for completion of the project shall be arranged
by MPEB and are likely to continue till June 1997 (that is till erection and commissioning of
the activities covered under this scheme).
Procurement
8.    This nature of thermal rehabilitation project as also upgrading of data processing
facilities was undertaken for the first time by MPEB. As such consultants have been
appointed, Overseas Bechtel, Inc. USA for Pilot Thermal Rehabilitation work and Tata
Consultancy Services (TCS), New Delhi (India) are for Upgradation of Data Processing
Facilities.
9.    Pilot Thermal Rehabilitation Project component. After the receipt of Bechtel's final
report in February. 1993 and based on their recommendations, the activities were identified,
planned and the notification of NIT was issued. After obtaining clearance/concurrence, from
appropriate agencies including the Bank, contracts for seven packages were awarded in June
1993. Approximately 36% of the supplies have been procured before the closing date of
credits.
10.   Upgradation of Data Processing Facilities. Further, on the basis of the report
submitted by TCS, the package were identified for international competitive bidding with
approval of World Bank, right from preparation of specifications. The orders worth Rs. 186.2
million were placed for hardware, software, peripherals and consultancy for development of
software. The total package is to be completed by December 1996. Approximately 75% of
hardware has been procured till June 1994.



- 29 -
Evaluation of Borrowers Own Performance
11.   Pilot Thermal Rehabilitation Project has been carried out for the first time in MPEB
and as such apart from achieving the basic objectives, it has also given a valuable experience
to the engineers and workers of MPEB. Besides this project has also provided an opportunity
for MPEB to gain experience in procurement through ICB procedures which could be later on
prove very useful in execution of other projects.
12.   Within the short time available, MPEB has performed well for the procurement of
goods under the project. Contractors were persuaded to complete the supplies within the
stipulated contractual delivery period. In spite of fact that scheduled delivery period up to
December 1997 was concurred by the Bank, the credits have been closed abruptly. Had the
credits been extended, as expected, the balance expenditure could also have been reimbursed
by the World Bank and thus MPEB could have avoided difficult cash availability situation
which had to be faced due to midway closure of the loan.
HFujii:vs
M:\VIVIUNDIRA\ISPART13.DOC
July 20, 1995 4:36 PM






IMAGING
Report No:       14837
Type: ICR



