Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3785-Il
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$157.4 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED SPECIAL FUND CREDIT
OF SDR 134.4 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
BODHGHAT HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
April 24, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVAL]ENTS
(As of April 20, 1984)
US$1.00         =  Rs 10.851
Rs 1.00        =  US$0.0921
Rs 1 million   =  US$92,155
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 10.0.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CEA    -   Central Electricity Authority
CWC    -   Central Water Commission
GOI    -   Government of Inadia
GOMP   -   Government of Madhya Pradesh
ICB    -   International Competitive Bidding
LCB    -   Local Competitive Bidding
LRMC   -   Long Run Marginal Cost
MPEB   -   Madhya Pradesh Electricity Board
NHPC   -   National Hydroelectric Power Corporation
NTPC   -   National Thermal Power Corporation
REB    -   Regional Electricity Board
REC    -   Rural Electrification Corporation
SEB    -   State Electricity Board



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
BODEGHAT HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
LOAN. CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:              Madhya Pradesh Electricity Board (MPEB).
Amount:                   Bank Loan:  US$157.4 million, including capitalized
front-end fee.
Special Fund Credit: SDR 134.4 million (US$143
million equivalent).
Terms:                    Bank Loan:  Repayment over 20 years, including five
years' grace, at the applicable variable rate of
interest; front-end fee of 0.25% of the base loan amount.
Special Fund Credit: Standard IDA terms.
Relending Terms:          Government of India (GOI) to Government of Madhya
Pradesh (GOMP): As part of Central assistance to States
for development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time.
Government of Madhya Pradesh to MPEB: Repayment over
25 years, including five years grace, at GOMP's current
applicable rate of interest, not less than 7.5% per
annum.
GOI will bear the exchange and interest rate risks.
Proiect Description:    The projiect's main objective is to assist in
meeting the electricity demand in the State of
Madhya Pradesh and in the Western Region of India
through the addition of 500 MW of hydro-power
capacity and better use of the existing thermal
plants. The project comprises the construction of
a 500 MW (4 x 125 MW) hydro-power station includ-
ing all equipment, civil works and a transmission
line to the Western Regional grid. Main works
include a 90 m high, 1650 m long combined gravity
and rock-fill dam, about 4500 m of tunnels and
shafts, a powerhouse, and 5 km of discharge
channel. The project also includes a pilot ther-
mal plant rehabilitation program designed to
provide for more efficient use of MPEB's thermal
stations, which would serve as a basis for even-
tual development of an India-wide rehabilitation
program, and improvement and expansion of MPEB's
This document has a restricted distiribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii.-
data processing unit and services. There are no
risks other than those normally associated with
this kind of project. All physical components to
be constructed are well within the boundaries of
known teclnology. The Central Electricity
Authority and the Central Water Commission will
provide assistance as necessary to MPEB in design,
supervision and management of the works.
Estimated Cost: 11
(us$ millions)
Item                          Local         Foreign         Total
Land and Relocation                         22.0            -             22.0
Dam                                        136.4           51.2          187.5
Water Conductor System                      58.4           14.6           73.0
Power Station                              107.0           72.9          179.8
Switchyard and Transmission                  5.9            0.8            6.8
Thermal Plant Rehabilitation                17.5           17.5           35.0
Training and Consulting Services             1.5            1.5            3.0
Miscellaneous                               16.5            -           _16.5
Base Cost                               365.1          158.5          523.6
Physical Contingencies                      43.8           14.1           57.9
Price Contingencies                        101.1           40.2          141.4
Total Project Cost                      510.0          212.8         722.8
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                   -              0.4            0.4
Interest during Construction
Bank                                      -             41.4          41.4
Other                                   172.9            -            172.9
Total Financing required                   682.9          254.6          937.5
Total project cost net of taxes and duties amounts to US$637.6 million.
1/  Includes taxes and duties of US$85.2 million.



Financing Plan:                                        (US$ millions)
Local         Foreign         Total
IBRD Loan                                 28.3          129.1          157.4
Special Fund Credit                       72.6           70.4          143.0
GOI/Cofinanciers                         395.0           55.1          450.1
MPEB                                     187.0            -            187.0
Total                               682.9           254.6          937.5
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ millions)
IBRD/IDA FY        FY85      FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89   FY90   FY91    FY92
Annual             24.4 1/  39.0    57.0    63.0    69.0   24.0   15.0          9.0
Cumulative         24.4      63.4   120.4   183.4   252.4  276.4  291.4   300.4
Rate of Return:    About 11%.
ARpraisal Report:  No. 4909-IN, dated April 16, 1984.
1/ Including payment of front-end fee of about US$0.4 million.






INTERNATIONAL BAKW FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND INTERNATIO]AL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND SPECIAL
FUND CREDIT TO INDIA FOR THE BODHGHAT HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
of US$157.4 million and a Special Fund credit of SDR 134.4 million (US$143
million equivalent) to India on standard terms to help finance the construction
of a hydroelectric power station on the Indravati river in the State of Madhya
Pradesh, a pilot rehabilitatiou program for thermal power plants in the State,
and related management improvements. The project is designed primarily to
provide an additional 500 megawatts of electricity generating capacity, as well
as to improve the efficiency oL existing thermal plant within the State.  The
Government of India (GOI) will channel the proceeds of the loan and credit to
the Government of Madhya Pradesh (GOMP) in accordance with GOI's standard terms
and 8rrangements for financing State development projects. GOMP will in turn
onlend these funds to the Madhya Pradesh Electricity Board (MPEB) as part of
its lending contribution to MPEB's investment program. GOMP's lending terms to
NPEB provide for repayment over 25 years, including five years' grace, at an
interest rate of not less than 7.5% per annum. Additional financing for the
project, in an amount equivalent to about US$85 million, may possibly be
provided from export credits, suppliers' credits, or commercial bank loans to
cover the foreign exchange cost of the turbogenerator sets and associated
equipment. The exchange and interest rate risks will be borne by the
Government of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Econoulic Situation of India and Resource
Mobilization Issues" (4395-IN,, dated April 11, 1983), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April L9, 1983. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 700 mil-
lion (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$250. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which empLoys more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those with little or no
land. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.2% since 1950/51 -- has been
slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0% per annum). As a result,
there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor
cost) from 60% to just under 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to
around 25%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with
significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a result economic
growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging about 3.6% per
annum since 1950/51.
1/ Parts I and II of the relport are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Periyar Vaigai Irrigation II Project
(No.P-3768-IN), dated April 10, 1984.



-2-
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
markedly since 1950/51: gross national savings more than doubled from 10.8% of
GDP (at factor cost) to 22.8% in 1982/83, while gross domestic investment rose
from 12.5% of GDP to 24.9% in 1982/83. Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s. Surpluses
arose for a few years in the late 1970s, and at the present time, foreign
savings are about 8% of investment. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms, never rising above 3% of GDP and
averaging below 1% for the past five years. Net foreign savings have never
risen above 3% of GDP, and presently stands at 2.1X.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during the
1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced various
policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume of
lndia's exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 19708 as a whole,
a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible.
While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, con-
tributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effec-
tive export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added,
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
4.9%, 3.9% and 5.6%, respectively. In 1979/80, however, this momentum was
broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of
international oil prices and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in
foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade
deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerged after several years of
virtual price stability. These setbacks in 1979/80 coincided with the prepara-
tion of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down a program of adjustment that
aimed at improving the trade deficit, removing infrastructural bottlenecks and
ensurihg price stability with an overall growth of the economy of 5.2%, 1.6 per-
centage points above the trend growth of 3.6%.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substiantially recovered with real
GDP growing by 7.9% and 5.2%, respectively. While' industrial output expanded
by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery wais particularly robust in
agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15% and
5.5%, respectively. The availability of power, coal, and rail transport,
already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82, recording growth rates
of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.9%, respectively. The easing of constraints on the
supply of infrastructure and basic commodities WaS a determining factor in the
improved performance of the industrial sector.  This overall improvement in the
Indian economy, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy contributed to



-3-
a sharp decline in the rate of inflation.  Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on
an average annual basis in 1981/82 and by only 2.5% in 1982/83, reflecting a
strong deceleration from a peak increase of 18% in 1980/81.
8.      After two years of fairly solid performance, the Indian economy faced a
difficult year in 1982/83 due to the drought in mid-1982 which brought down
the GDP growth rate to around 2% and put further strains on the already dif-
ficult balance of payments and domestic resource situation. Besides a sig-
nificant decline in the range of 4.52-6.5% in agricultural production, GDP
growth was also constrained by a slowdown in industrial growth from 8.6% in
1981/82 to about 4% in 1982/83. This resulted from a combination of several
factors, notably the decline in agriculture income, persistent (though
lessened) pover shortages, a textile strike in Bombay, as well as depressed
export markets and increased competition from imports. The Government was
able, however, to protect the level of savings to a large extent and keep the
momentum of the investment program through largely successful public sector
resource mobilization efforts. Foreign savings played a crucial role in sup-
port of this effort. Similarly, the timely implementation of various economic
policies mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of a poor monsoon.
Continued improvements of the infrastructure sectors, although at a slower pace
than in the previous two years, also reduced the negative effects of the
drought.
9.      Agricultural production in 1982/83 received a serious setback from the
drought. Foodgrain production, which had reached a record 133 million tons in
1981/82, declined to 124-127 millioni tons. Production of most other major
crops also declined in 1982/83. Corrected for weather variations, this still
represents a creditable performance. In 1979/80, with a broadly comparable
monsoon, foodgrain production reached only 109 million tons. The Government
was able to mitigate the effects of the 1982 drought through efficient manage-
ment of foodgrain procurement and distribution, careful timing of foodgrain
imports, and appropriate allocation of power to irrigation pumps. These
policies helped to avoid disruptions in basic food supplies and contributed
to price stability during the year. While the management of the foodgrain
economy after the drought was a significant achievement, the effect of the
drought on production re-emphasizecd the continued importance of the monsoon
in India's agriculture. The performance of the recent past and probable future
trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will meet demand. The
balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain con-
sumer supplies or adequate buffer istocks could arise from time to time. Thus,
programs to expand irrigation., struengthen extension and encourage the efficient
use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services performed generally well in 1982/83,
although growth of coal, power and rail transport failed to maintain the mOmen-
tum of the marked recovery of 1981/82. Despite lower hydro generation due to
the failure of the monsoon, overall power generation recorded an increase of
about 7%. This was due largely to an increase in capacity utilization in
thermal plants resulting from improved overall management, stabilization of
most of the new large units and better availability of coal due to the combina-
tion of increased coal production and improved railway performance.
Nevertheless, power shortages remain the major bottleneck in the economy.
Railway traffic grew by only 3.7% in 1982/83 reflecting a slowdown from
1981/82. The lower growth was due not to a decline in the operational
efficiency of the railways but rather to slack demand from core sectors like
steel, iron ore, coal washeries and fertilizers. Coal production growth (4% in
1982/83), after 10% growth in the two preceding years was creditable. There



-4-
were no major shortages and there were improvements in the quality of coal.
Recent easing of shortages and bottlenecks in infirastructure has come primarily
from better utilization of existing capacity, but in the future most improve-
ment must result from added capacity. It is therefore critically important
that India maintain the pace of investment in these key sectors and mobilize
sufficient resources to do so.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus,
which had been a temporary phenomenon of the late 1970s, to one of resource
scarcity. Investment has again grown quicker than national savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.4% of GDP in the last three years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population living below the povierty line. Future increases
in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced lprofitability of public sector
enterprises whicb would require better utilizationa of capacity, more efficient
operations and adequate pricing policies. In 1981/82 there was a significant
increase in public savings due to improved profitability of various public
sector enterprises. This trend which was maintainied in 1982/83 needs to be
accelerated.  The gap between gross investment and national savings which rose
from 0.4% of GDP in 1979/80 to 1.8%, 2.3% and 2.1%, respectively in the first
three years of the 1980s, has been financed by foreign savings.
12.     India's ability to generate resources to meet its development objec-
tives has become increasingly linked to the balance of payments. The current
account balance which recorded surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, sharply
deteriorated to deficits of nearly US$2.9 billion in 1980/81 and US$3.8 billion
in 1981/82 (1.8% and 2.3% of GDP, respectively). This was partly due to a
sharp rise in the oil import bill as a result of both the disruption of oil
production in northeast India in 1980 and significant oil price increases, and
to a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to
inputs for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology
and capacity expansion. The current account deficit in 1982/83 declined to
US$3.3 billion or 2.1% of GDP. The improvement wolild have been greater had not
the drought resulted in the need to rebuild food stocks through imports and at
the same time led to a lower level of GDP growth. This improvement in the
balance of payments is to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years.  It also reflects a
reduction in the trade deficit as compared to the levels reached in 1980/81 and
1981/82. The trade deficit declined from US$7.6 billion in 1980/81 to US$6.0
billion in 1982/83 due to continued export volume growth (following the sub-
stantial resumption in 1981/82) despite poor world market conditions, coupled
with the containment in import growth dlue to import substitution of petroleum
products, metals and fertilizers while allowing substantial growth in "other"
imports through more liberal import policies. Nevertheless, it is expected
that the balance of payments will be under strain for the next several years,
for India's adjustment program will continue to require high levels of imports.
13.     The high investment rate, about 25% of GDP, envisaged in the Sixth Plan
coupled with the limited possibilities of raising domestic savings beyond the
present high levels, necessarily implies a need for external resources. Faced
with a reduction in the availability of bilateral and multilateral concessional
assistance, India has begun to borrow significant amounts on commercial terms
from the Euro-dollar market in addition to much greater utilization of
suppliers' and export credits. India's favorable debt service profile has
enabled India to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads (over
relatively high underlying rates). In the period 1980-82 India contracted



-5-
commercial loans totalling over US$2,000 million and suppliers' credits of
about US$520 million. The bulk of the loans are linked to specific development
projects in the public sector while the credits are-linked, by and large, to
development projects in the private sector. India also reached an agreement
with the International Monetary Fund for the use of the Extended Fund Facility
for SDR 5 billion, of which SDR 2.5 billion have already been drawn. The
transfer of funds under the ]EFF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reser-
ves which had fallen to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
In 1982/83, in addition to continued use of the EFF, financing requirements
were met by increased non-concessional borrowing (about US$2,000 million in new
committments) and a 10% increase in net aid disbursement.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India is also
well-endowed with human resources and with institutional infrastructure for
development. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of
land, water, and minerals.(primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and
oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to foreign savings,
India has the capability for managing these considerable resources to
accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development objectives
is the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now in its fourth year.
The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy development, the growth of
exports and domestic import substitutes where appropriate, and the removal of
infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall performance has so far been encouraging,
although bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport are likely to
persist. Moreover, fulfillment of the Plan targets will require additional
resource mobilization. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resour-
ces have so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet
the financing requirements of the Central Government's share in plan
investment, even if some increase in inflation is experienced above current low
levels. However, a shortfall in public savings is likely to occur in some
States unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need also for
continuous efforts to maintain the current level of private savings.  Recent
increases in interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits and the con-
tinued dampening of inflationary expectations should stimulate such savings.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, returns to investment have so far been
relatively low. Much of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of
development, in which a large and growing proportion of investment has been
needed to build up basic infrastructure. These services, such as power, tran-
sport and irrigation, have inherently high capital-output ratios. However,
there is scope to improve the sectoral capital-output ratios through greater
efficiency and better management. Bottlenecks in basic infrastructural sectors
clearly can prejudice growth in other sectors where large investments have been
made. As demonstrated in the last three years, performance in the basic serv-
ice sectors can be improved through better planning and management, thus lead-



-6-
ing to higher productivity and capacity utilization throughout the economy.
At the same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case
of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as irrigation, power and
transportation, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the require-
ments of the t-st of the -economy will be vital to overall medium- and long-term
development prospects. In the short tierm, however, achieving an adequate
balance between supply and demand in these sectors will remain a difficult
objective.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitiouis oil production program
backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between domestic
consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects for
progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite bright.
In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for exploration and development
were raised by successive price increases for domesitic crude and products.
India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63% in 1979/80 to about 45% now
and a scheduled expansion in production is expected to decrease oil imports (in
crude equivalent terms) to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects.
18.     Despite aa expected continued decline in its current account deficits
from the current 2-.1% to about 1.7% of GDP by the late 1980s, India will
require growing access to world financial markets to complement concessional
assistance. These commercial sources of funds will be important in the future
since India's current account deficits, though not large relative to the size
of the economy, will nevertheless be large in absolmte terms and will neces-
sitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be available from normal
concessional sources. Given the favorable structurie of India's external debt,
which reflects the past reliance on concessional sources, India should remain
creditworthy for a substantial growth in external borrowing.
19.     India's development prospects ovrer the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achievinig more rapid growth than in the past.
In the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achievibtg
these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for furtber
investment, and by fostering the development of export and import-substituting
industry to improve the balance of payments. In the! short term, a relatively
large external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commercial
borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences
of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing India
with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional
assistance. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing
on commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather
than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. The Government's effort
to maintain an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the structure of the
Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment requires foreign
resources in addition to the level of commercial borrowing available to India.
India is still a very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous
investment requirements for human development and basic infrastructure. The
fact that India has been able over the past seven years to maintain a rate of
growth above the long term trend, despite the poor monsoons of 1979/80 and
1982/83, lends substance to the hope that a more open trade policy and con-



-7-
certed efforts to remove constraints on the growth of productive capacity,
supported by adequate mobilization of savings both foreign and domestic, can
sustain a rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the long-run trend of
3.6% per annum. Combined with a reduction in the rate of population increase
to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend
rate of growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in
these efforts would make a signiificant difference to the prospects of easing
poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need to
accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census placed India's popula-
tion at 683.8 million, or about 12 million higher than official projections.
The fact that there was no decline in inter-census rates of population growth,
equivalent to about 2.2% per annum, is a cause for concern. While further
analysis of the Census may suggest this rate of growth to be slightly
overestimated, the expectation of a measurable decline in the population growth
rate has not materialized. Until the results of the Census are fully analyzed,
firm judgements about the reaisons for this outcome are not possible. However,
the results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the
health and family planning program in a broad range of activities and services.
These efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise
in the proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group from its
estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth.  More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and
small farmers.  About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban popula-
tion subsist below the poverty line.  Improvements in the living standards of
the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,
particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment, and in
non-farm rural employment. These developments will have to stem in large part
from market forces which can. be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate
Government policies and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure.,
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1981, resulting
from India's sustained effort to raise agricultural production, reflects such
developments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster
implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in
poverty through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade.  Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Operations such as the community health
volunteer program and the rational adult literacy campaign provide encouraging
evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced
prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 76 loans and 160 development
credits to India totalling US$5,183 million and US$11,851 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,387 million has been
repaid, and US$6,224 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1983.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through



-8-
September 30, 1983 totalled US$286 million, representing a decrease of about
2 percent over the same period last year.  Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of disbursements as of September 30, 1983.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 29 commitments in India totalling US$224
million, of which US$30 million has been repaid, US$56 million sold and US$18
million cancelled. Of the balance of VS$120 million, US$113 million represents
loans and US$8 million equity.  A summary statement of IFC disbursements as of
September 30, 1983, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic grovth in India, particularly through poweer generation and
distribution, and railways and teleconEmunications projects. The Bank Group has
also provided financing for a broad raEnge of meditm- and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
ment finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance r,emains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The continued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and infrastructure
development will appropriately contribute to India's adjustment and growth
prospects. Irrigation will need continuing supporit, with emphasis on improved
efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery to farmers'
fields. In addition, major investments to develop the large Narmada River
basin will be vital to India's efforts to increase agricultural production.
Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer production and
distribution, agricultural credit and extension, will continue to receive
support. A continued program of investments aimed at rapidly increasing the
domestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India is to curb the
cost of oil imports and alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain
output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors. Exploitation of oil
and gas resources is a central element of this program, which should be supple-
mented by investments in hydro and thennal power generation, and in the expan-
sion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to
increase the domestic production of basic commodities, which have been in short
supply and which India has a comparative advantage in producing, should also
receive high priority. Finally, raising the efficiency and levels of transpor-
tation infrastructure would mitigate a key constraint to achieving higher
levels of economic growth so that further support of the railways and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, there



-9-
is now a need for increased foreign assistance to India, not only to help the
economy adjust to the more recent oil price increases and the overall
deterioration in the world trade environment but also to maintain the rela-
tively higher growth rates achieved during the first two years of the Sixth
Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim
to include the financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few
capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic
capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to
be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority
sectors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms.  Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small ina relation to India's needs for external
support. This requirement for additional assistance can be met, in part,
through Bank lending. Given its development prospects and policies, India is
judged credit-worthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA assistance. A con-
tinuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth in productive capacity,
trade expansion, higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a
reduction in the rate of population growth should result in continued economic
growth and improvement in the balance of payments. Despite recent setbacks,
India's external payments position is still manageable. The ratio of India's
debt service to the level of exports was about 11% in 1982/83 and is projected
to remain below 20% through L995/96. As of September 30, 1983, outstanding
loans to India held by the Bank totalled US$3,932 million, of which
US$2,100 million remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of
US$1,832 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 50%, 43% and 53%, respectively, in 1981/82.
On March 31, 1982, India's outstainding and disbursed external public debt was
about US$17.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$7.1 billion or
38% (IDA's US$5.9 billion and IBILD's US$1.2 billion). In 1981/82, about 16.0%
of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-10-
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
Background
29.     India's economic growth depends to a large degree on the development
of the power sector. Since alternative sources of energy are not readily
available in the amounts needed, shortage of power has an irmediate impact on
virtually all activities of the economy. The development of the sector is
therefore receiving high priority in Central and State Government investment
planning, and the power sector now accounts for the largest share of India's
public investment program (20% of the Sixth Five-Year Plan outlay).
Power Supply and Demand - India-Wide
30.     In the 1950s and 1960s, Indiia's power generation kept pace with its
demand for power, with both installed capacity and power generation growing
at an average annual rate of about 11%. Since 1970, supply has fallen short
of demand primarily because of delays in commissioning new power projects,
operating and maintenance problems, and severe budget constraints which have
limited investment in the sector. The situation has been aggravated by
unstable coal supplies caused by disruptions in coal mining and transport,
and the declining quality of available coal. However, growth in power
generation has been progressively stepped up: during the first half of the
1970s, it averaged only 5% annually; in the seconLd half of the decade,
considerable improvement was made, with growth in both generation and
capacity averaging about 8% annually. The situation has further improved in
1980/81 and 1981/82, with an annual growth of about 8% in power generation
exceeding a 6.5% annual growth rate in installed capacity, indicating better
utilization of existing resources. Nevertheless, power shortages persist in
many parts of the country, particularly in the Eastern Region. Total
installed generating capacity as of March 1983 was about 38,100 MW (including
non-utility plant), of which about 63% was conventional thermal, 35% hydro,
and 2% nuclear.
31.     Industrial power consumption accounts for about 60% of all
electricity sold, while agriculture (mainly irrigation) accounts for 18%,
domestic use 12%, and other uses 10%. As a result: of accelerated
agricultural development, power consumption in the rural areas, where more
than 80% of India's population lives, has shown marked growth in recent
years. The number of villages which have been electrified, for example,
increased from just over 3,000 in 1950/51 to an estimated 300,000
(representing about 52% of all the villages in India) by the end of 1982.
India's Central Electricity Authority (CEA) has projected in its long-term
national power plan that over the period from 1982/83 to 1994/95, generating
capacity will grow at an average annual rate of about 9.5% to a level of
about 106,000 MW, of which about 59,000 MW (56%) would be thermal, 44,000 MW
(41%) hydro and 3,500 MW (3%) nuclear. About 15,ODO MW of the additional
generating capacity is expected to be added by 1984/85.
Power Supply and Demand - Western Region
32.     The Western Region, in which the proposed project is located,
comprises the States of Gujarat, Maharashtra and Midhya Pradesh. The major
supply authorities of the Western Region are the St:ate Electricity Boards
(SEBs) of these States, the Tata Electric Companies, the Ahmedabad Electric



-11-
Company and the Surat Electric Company. In addition, a number of small
municipalities are also engaged in power supply. The Western Region
Electricity Board is constructing at Bombay a Regional Load Dispatch Center,
which will eventually integrate the operation of generating facilities
throughout the Region. The total installed capacity in the Region as of
March 1983 was about 10,045 MW, of wbich about 78% is thermal. Projects
already committed would increase installed capacity in 1988/89 by 9,121 MW,
of which about 8,010 (88%) is thermal. Further new projects identified for
study total about 12,200 MW,, of which about 6,300 MW (52%) is thermal.
33.     Load growth in the Western Region in the decade 1971-1981 averaged
7.4% per year, slightly higlaer than the national rate of 6.4% per year over
the same period. CEA's load forecast in the long-term power plan projects
load growth rates of betweea 9.7% and 11.3% per year (depending upon two
scenarios of industrial growth) for the period 1980/81 - 1984/85, gradually
decreasing to a level of between 7.4% and 8.3% for the period 1989/90 -
1994/95. The relatively high rates in the early years aim at satisfying
suppressed demand. Peak demand in the Region is forecast (in the "high"
scenario) to grow from about 7,500 MW in 1982/83 to 19,500 MW in 1994/95,
representing an average anuual rate of increase of 8.75%. Depending upon
assumptions about forced outage rates and a feasible rate of development of
hydro power, between 19,000 MW and 25,000 MW of additional generating
capacity will need to be installed in the Region by 1995.
Bank Group Operations in the Power Sector
34.     Since 19545 the Bank Group has made 15 loans to India for power
projects amounting to US$1,389.65 million and 16 credits totalling US$2,266.0
million. Of these amounts, US$2,465.4 million is for generating plant;
US$23.0 million for construction equipment for the Beas Hydroelectric
Project; US$630.7 million for the provision of high-voltage transmission; and
US$536.5 million for the support of rural electrification schemes. Sixteen
projects have been completed: ten for generating plant, the Beas Project,
four for power transmission, and the First Rural Electrification Project.
The First Singrauli (Credit 685-IN of April 1977), Third Trombay
(Loan 1549-IN of June 1978), anid Second Rural Electrification (Credit 911-IN
of June 1979) Projects are scheduled to be completed this year. The First,
Korba (Credit 793-IN of May 1978) and First Ramagundam (Credit 874-IN and
Loan 1648-IN of February 1979) Thermal Power Projects are in an advanced
stage of implementation. The loan for the Third Rural Electrification
Project (Loan 2165-IN) was approved in June 1982. The loan for the Central
Power Transmission Project (Loan 2283-IN), and the loan and credit for the
Upper Indravati Hydro Project (Loan 2278-IN and Credit 1356-IN), were
approved in May 1983. The Singrauli, Korba and Second and Third Rural
Electrification projects are on schedule.  The first five units of the
Singrauli project and the first two units of the Korba project were
commissioned on schedule. The Farakka and Ramagundam projects are proceeding
satisfactorily, the first unit at Ramagundam having been commissioned four
months ahead of schedule. The Third Trombay Project was synchronized in
January 1984, about a year behind schedule.
35.     A project performance audit was conducted in 1980 for the Second
Power Transmission Project (Credit 242-IN). The project was considered to
have been successful in assisting the nine beneficiary SEBs in extending
their transmission systems to help meet their growing power requirements.
Utilization of generating capacity in these SEBs exceeded the appraisal
forecast. Upgrading the financial management practices of the SEBs, which



-12-
commenced under this project, is continuing uncler subsequent projects. The
audit highlighted the difficulties of adequately supervising this project,
which consisted of many widely-scattered sub-projects, and of eff ~cting
institutional improvements in the absence of a close working rele-ionship
between the Bank Group and the beneficiary SEBs. With the assumption of
increased responsibilities by the CEA, which have resulted in greater
involvement in SEB operations and project preparation, a considerably more
effective relationship with the SEBs is envisaged.
Sector Institutions
36.     Under the Indian Constitution, the responsibility for supplying power
is shared between the Central Government and the State Governments, and full
agreement between the Center and the States is required for the
implementation of most actions. Various agencies have been established at
the State, Regional and national level to promot:e the development of an
integrated power system within the country. The principal agencies are: the
State Electricity Boards, the Regional Electricity Boards (REBs), the Central
Electricity Authority, the two Central power corporations--the National
Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) and the Nationsl Hydro-Electric Power
Corporation (NHPC)--and the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC).
37.     The SEBs were constituted by the State Governments under the
provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, to promote the coordinated
development of generation, transmission and distribution of electricity in
the most efficient and economical manner, and to control and regulate private
licensees and utilities. The States effectively own or control over 90% of
electricity supply facilities. While the SEBs are corporate entities and
enjoy some autonomy in the management of their day-to-day operations, they
are under the control of State Governments in such matters as capital
investment, tariffs, borrowings, pay scales and personnel policies.
38.     The REBs were established for the Northern, Southern, Eastern,
Western and North-Eastern Regions to coordinate t:he integrated operation of
the Regional pover systems and to improve collaboration among the SEBs. The
REBs, which function mainly in an advisory role, coordinate the operation of
the Regional system to the maximum benefit of the Region as a whole. They
also coordinate overhaul and maintenance programs, determine generation
schedules and power availability for inter-State transfer, and determine
tariffs for the transfer of power within the Region.
39.     The CEA was constituted in 1950 with responsibility for developing
national power policy and coordinating the activities of the various agencies
involved in electricity supply. It is responsible for the formulation and
coordination of plans for power development, optimization of investments in
the power sector for the whole country, development of interconnected system
operation, training of personnel, and research and development. It
accumulates data on operational, economic, financial and accounting aspects
of the power industry, both at Center and State levels. It also provides
consulting support to SEBs on technical matters associated with power
projects, and advises them on financial matters.
40.     The NTPC and NHPC were incorporated in 1975 by GOI to construct, own
and operate large Central power stations, as well as high-voltage power
transmission lines and associated substations. Although the Central
Government is becoming increasingly important in the sector, the SEBs will
continue to play a major role, particularly in hydro-electric projects. The



-13-
States own most hydro sites and are unlikely to turn over these sources of
comparatively inexpensive energy to the Center.  NHPC can develop hydro sites
only when the water rights are undisputed and the State has surrendered its
claim to them.
41.     The REC was constituted in 1969 and registered under the Companies
Act, 1956, as a limited company wrholly owned by the Government of India. Its
primary objective is to promote rural electrification schemes prepared by
SEBs throughout India by functioning as a financial intermediary with
technical expertise, and ensuring the efficient onlending of funds drawn
primarily from GOI. REC coordinates its lending operations with the
activities of other agencies which provide financing for rural development.
Although the amount of REC financial support is small in relation to total
SEB operations, REC today finances more than half of total rural
electrification investment.
Bank Group Strategy in the Power Sector
42.     The objectives of ithe Bank Group's assistance strategy in the sector
derive from the continuing dialogue it has with the Government over the
policies and programs required to deal with the complex problems confronting
the Indian electricity supply industry. They are aimed at supporting the
efforts of the Indian authorities: (a) to eliminate power shortages by the
installation of generating and transmission capacity, and the promotion of
measures to improve the operation and maintenance of existing plant; (b) to
introduce long-range system planning on a nationwide basis to assure
implementation of a least--cost power development program; (c) to assist in
institution-building by promoting improvements in sector organization and
training; and (d) to strengthen the financial management of the institutions
in the sector, particularly the SEBs.
43.     In line with these objectives, the Bank Group has emphasized the need
for the Government to pursue a program of improvements in five high priority
areas.  These are:  (a) the performance of thermal power plants;
(b) coordination of power development with the development of other sectors;
(c) hydro-electric power development; (d) the role of the Central sector in
power generation and transmission; and (e) the financial objectives and
policies for SEBs. In line with the recommendations of GOI's Committee on
Power, established in 1978 to review all aspects of the power sector, GOI
prepared in 1982 a comprehensive program for the implementation of power
sector improvements as emaphasized by the Bank.
44.     Satisfactory progress has been made in each of the five areas, as the
following examples illustrate. To improve operational efficiency in thermal
plants, teams of specialists, including representatives from CEA, SEBs and
manufacturers, have been established by the Department of Power to visit all
power plants with 100/120 MW and 200/210 MW thermal generating units in the
country to diagnose technical and operational problems, propose solutions and
assign responsibilities for their implementation. In late 1982, CEA
completed its national long-term power development plan, responding to the
Bank's emphasis on the need for a nationwide long-range plan for power
development in India. The plan forecasts growth in power demand and
corresponding capacity expansion and equipment requirements to meet this
demand through the year 2000, according to different scenarios based upon
India's rate of economic growth. The plan also provides a least-cost
generation expansion program for each of the five electricity supply regions
and will provide the basis for the preparation of both five-year plans and



-14-
annual investment programs for the power sector. The first Bank Group
supported hydro-electric project in India (Upper Indravati) was approved in
1983, the proposed project is the second, and a number of other projects are
in advanced stages of preparation. GOI, through NTPC,-now has under
construction and partly in operation about 10,000 MW of power generating
capacity, wLich includes, as well as the four large thermal plants at
Singrauli, Korba, Ramagundam and Farakka being financed by the Bank Group,
two large thermal plants (Rihand and Vindhyacha.l) begun by NTPC in 1982. The
first Central Power Transmission Project, approved in 1983, is designed to
reinforce the Centrally-owned power transmission grid, and provide the first
stage of integration of the Northern, Western and Southern Regional grids.
NTPC has decentralized its operations on a regional basis to provide more
local and effective monitoring, conitrol and operation of its power generation
and transmission facilities. Finally, legislation for amendment of the
financial provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 was recently
enacted by GOI; a uniform system of commercial accounting for the SEBs is
under development; and new financial performance criteria for the SEBs have
been introduced.
45.     Despite many difficulties, the improvements made by the Indian
authorities so far have been encouraging. The establishment of the REBs,
NTPC and NHPC, and NTPC's subsequent decentralization, have been important
steps towards an improved organizational structure of the power sector. The
reorganization of CEA and the enlargiement of its powers also contributed to
this improvement. Amendments to the financial provisions of the Electricity
(Supply) Act 1948 enable the SEBs to operate along commercial lines; the
financial performance of SEBs has improved; and the majority of SEBs have
completed tariff studies based on marginal cost pricing principles.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.     The project was prepared by CEA, the Central Water Commission (CWC)
and MPEB and appraised by a mission which visited India in October 1983. A
Staff Appraisal Report is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1984. GOI and MPEB
were represented by a delegation with Mr. D, Chatterjee of the Department of
Economic Affairs as coordinator. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is
attached as Annex III.
Proiect Description
47.     The primary objective of the project is to assist the Government of
India expand the country's power supply at least cost by optimizing the
development of India's remaining unused hydro-power potential. The project,
located in the Bastar district in the State of Madhya Pradesh, is designed to
increase the power generating capacity in the Western Region, and in the
State of Madhya Pradesh in particular, through the construction of a 500 MW
hydro-electric station at Bodhghat, on the Indravati river. The project,
which is the least cost alternative for the expansion of the Western Regional
system, would help reduce the peaking capacity shortages in the Region, which
have led to widespread load-shedding, overloading of existing plants,
increased operating costs, and reduced thermal planit maintenance.  A further
objective is to increase the efficiency of MPEB's existing thermal plant by
assisting in the formulation and implementation of a pilot thermal plant
rehabilitation program. This pilot program is intended to be replicated in



-15-
other SEBs in the future, and provide a basis for the formulation of a
nationwide thermal rehabilitation program. In addition to addressing
electricity supply and plant utilization problems, the project also provides
for the expansion and modernization of MPEB's data processing services to
cope with the Board's growing management needs. Though not a Bank-financed
component of the project, a study of electricity metering practices in
selected SEBs will be carried out by GOI to provide a basis for the
formulation of a rational metering policy.
48.     The project comprises the following components:
(a) a hydro-electric power station of 500 MW installed capacity,
including a powerhouse housing four 125 MW turbo-generating sets
and associated electrical and mechanical equipment; a combined
gravity rock-fill dam, 90 m high and 1,650 m long; a water
conductor system composed of a 3,000 m headrace tunnel, surge
tank, and four pressure shafts; a tailrace channel 5 km in
length; transformers (111220 kV), switchyard equipment, and about
5 km of 220 kV double-circuit transmission line to connect the
plant, through the nearby Barsoor substation, to the Western
Region grid;
(b) a thermal power plant rehabilitation program, including the
purchase and installeation of elements for the repair and
upgrading of selected thermal units in the State of Madhya
Pradesh, as well as improved operational and maintenance
practices;
(c) expansion and modernization of MPEB's data processing unit,
including the development of computer software and the
acquisition of necessary computing equipment; and
(d) consulting, engineering, training, and administrative services.
49.     The output from the power station will be transmitted over two 220 kV
transmission lines to the 400 kV Barsoor substation where it will enter the
Western Region grid. Load flow analyses prepared by CEA indicate that the
existing transmission line link:ing Barsoor with a major connecting substation
for the Western Region at Bilhai will need to be reinforced when the project
is commissioned. Such reinforcement is not part of the project. MPEB will
construct, by the completion date of the project, the required transmission
lines to evacuate the power generated by the Bodhghat plant (Section 3.08 of
Project Agreement). In this connection, detailed engineering for the
necessary transmission works will be completed by June 30, 1986, and the
works will be completed by 1990, before commissioning of the Bodhghat plant.
Proiect Implementation
50.     The project will be implemented over seven and one half years, from
early 1984, by the Madhya Pradesh Electricity Board. MPEB has ample
experience in general civil construction and equipment erection gained
through the construction of several major thermal power stations, with
capacities totalling about 2000 MW. MPEB will also be responsible for the
operation and maintenance of the project. The first unit is expected to be
commissioned in October 1989 and the last in June 1990. Engineering and
consulting services will be provided to MPEB by CEA (electro-mechanical and
civil engineering) and CWC (civil engineering). Both organizations have had



-16-
extensive experience in similar projects and have been responsible for the
engineering of most of the hydro-power and irrigation schemes in India over
the past several decades. CEA and CWC are preparing final designs for
construction, tender documents and specifications. and will provide general
technical assistance during project implementation. A Dam Review Panel,
consisting of independent experts, was established by MPEB in July 1983 to
oversee the design and construction aspects of the project. The proposed
project layout and design were approved by the Panel in August 1983 and
further endorsed by a panel of independent consultants retained by the Bank
for the technical review of the project. The engineering for the plant has
been completed to a level sufficient for bid invitation, and detailed
construction drawings are under preparation. Bids for major civil works will
be invited by late May 1984.
51.     MPEB has established a project executing unit, under the control of
the Chief Engineer, to be responsible for the construction, management and
supervision of the works. The proposed organization and staffing of the unit
have been reviewed by the Bank and found acceptable. Assistance will be
provided to the unit by consultants in dam and tuiinel construction and
contract management as needed (Section 2.02 of Project Agreement).
Approximately 200 man-months of consulting services will be required for this
purpose. Further assistance to the unit in general construction management,
procurement, and stores management will be provided by MPEB.
52.     The thermal plant rehabilitation component will be implemented by
MPEB with the assistance of consultants who will be recruited by MPEB
(Section 2.02 of Project- Agreement) and retained before December 31, 1984.
Approximately 100 man-months of consulting services will be required for this
purpose. MPEB's thermal plant availability ranges from about 49% to 94%,
depending upon unit size, unit age, fuel type, etc. It is expected that
under the rehabilitation program, improvements in. power availability of the
order of about 8% can be obtained, at relatively low cost. MPEB staff have
already prepared a preliminary unit-wise diagnosis of the needs for the
rehabilitation of the State's thermal plants. MPEB will also prepare, by
March 31, 1985, a report of a review of its operations and maintenance
practices, identifying areas for improvement and proposing the scope of
further consultant review. The rehabilitation component will be carried out
in three stages: (i) review by the consultants of MPEB's assessment of its
rehabilitation needs, including the proposed physical works, their
priorities, economic justification, and costs; (ii) preparation, with the
assistance of the consultants, of a detailed implementation plan, including
item quantities, specifications and tender documents, purchase schedule,
manpower estimates, monitoring system, and plant shut-down plan; and
(iii) execution of the proposed works, aEnd training of operations and
maintenance staff.
53.     The upgrading and expansion of MPEB's data processing facility will
also be carried out with the assistance of qualified consultants acceptable
to the Bank (Section 2.02 of Project Agreement). These consultants will be
retained by December 31, 1984. About 100 man-months of consulting services
will be required for this purpose. The consultants will assist MPEB in
defining the scope and priority of proposed new computer applications or the
expansion of existing ones; formulating a plan to implement the
recommendations, including the selection of appropriate computing software
and hardware; establishing a training program for MPEB staff; and
implementing the expanded data-processing system. A study of electricity
metering practices, which is designed to provide the basis for the



-17-
formulation of a rational metering policy, will be carried out for selected
SEBs under the responsibility of the Ministry of Energy (Section 4.02 of Loan
Agreement). This study will not be financed from Bank Group funds. Terms of
reference for a proposed metering study were provided previously to GOI by
the Bank and these have been taken into account in defining the scope of the
GOI study, which is expected to be completed by May 1986.
Water Rights and Land Acguisitiort
54.     The Indravati river, on which the project is located, is an
inter-State river flowing from Orissa intro Madhya Pradesh, and, further
downstream, forming the boundary between Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. The
joint utilization of the Indravati is regulated by agreements reached among
the States at the Godavari Water Disputes Tribunal. According to the
agreement, Orissa will ensure at its border 45 billion cubic feet of water
in the Indravati and its tributaries at 75% dependability. The inter-State
agreements have been taken into account in the planning and design of the
project, and there are no outstanding inter-State water rights issues.
55.     The total land area required for the project is about 13,250 hectares
(ha) of which about 4,650 ha (35%) is private property, 5,480 ha (41%) is
State-owned forest land, and the balance (24%) is owned by the GOI's
Department of Revenue. About 2,300 families, of which about 75% are tribals,
are expected to be displaced during the 6-7 year construction and reservoir
filling period. Resettlement of the displaced families will be carried out
in accordance with regulations of GOI's Department of the Environment (DOE),
which are consistent with Bank Group guidelines on the subject. MPEB has
prepared a resettlement program setting priorities for the transfer of the
affected population consistent with the construction schedule. A
Rehabilitation Committee, under the chairmanship of the Commissioner, Bastar
Division, has been established to supervise the implementation of the
resettlement plan and to recommend additional measures as necessary. MPEB
has selected four adjoining tribal areas where State land is available to
compensate the affected population. Adequate funding provision has been made
in the project estimates for the acquisition of private land and properties,.
and for the provision of Government land as compensation where applicable,
and no problems are expected in this regard. Adequate funds have also been
allocated for the construLction of housing and related infrastructure and
facilities to relocate the displaced population. MPEB will provide to the
Bank, commencing with the quarter ending December 31, 1984, quarterly reports
on the progress of the resettlement program. MPEB will also provide, by
June 30, 1985, a plan for the establishment of a proposed Tribal Training
Center at Barsoor or Gidam, which will provide training for tribals affected
by land submergence.
Environmental Aspects
56.     The project has been cleared by GOI's Department of the Environment
(DOE). Studies carried out by the Madhya Pradesh Forest Department indicate
that the project area contains no flora or fauna, or any rare species, that
would suffer from the construction of the project. DOE has specified a
number of measures to be taken by the project authorities to promote
preservation of wild life, minimize soil erosion, and prevent health
problems. GOMP has prepared an environmental protection program on the basis
of DOE's proposed measures, and adequate funding provisions have been made in
the project estimates to carry it out. The program includes provision for
the compensatory afforestation of around 5,000 ha in the vicinity of the



-l 8- 
project, and the promotion of fish farming in the reservoir. Since a number
of the actions envisaged in the program need further planning, a schedule for
the submission of the necessary detailed plans has been agreed with HPEB.
MPEB will provide to the Bank, by June 30, 198_5, a detailed plan for the
establishment of a wild-life buffer zone around the reservoir shoreline, and,
by June 30, 1985, details of a proposed fisheries and water management
program, and a proposed tree planting scheme.
Project Costs and Financing
57.     The total cost of the project, including contingencies but excluding
about US$85 million in taxes and duties, is estimated at about US$638 million
equivalent, of which about US$213 million (33%) represents the estimated
foreign exchange costs.  Interest during construction adds about US$214
million to the financing required. A capitalized front-end fee on the
proposed Bank loan adds approximately a further US$0.4 million (US$392,519).
The principal cost components, net of physical and price contingencies, but
including taxes and duties, are:  dam, US$188 mi llion; power station,
US$180 million; water conductor system, US$73 million; thermal plant
rehabilitation, US$35 million; land and relocation, US$22 million;
transformers, switchyard and transmission equipument and miscellaneous
equipment, US$23 million; training and consulting services, US$3 million.
The project cost estimates are based on December 1983 prices for similar
equipment and works. Price contingencies, amounting to about 32% of base
cost, are based on expected inflation rates of 7% for 1983/84 and 1984/85, 8%
for 1985/86 and 1.986/87, and 6% thereafter for local costs, and 7.5% for
1983/84, 7% for 1984/85, and 6% therieafter for foreign costs. Physical
contingencies of about 15% on civil works and 5% on electrical and mechanical
equipment have been allowed, amounting to about 13% of base cost.  The cost
of consulting services has been estimated on the basis of 130 man-months at
US$11,500 per man-month for foreign consultants, and 294 man-months at
US$3,500 equivalent per man-month for local consultants, including fees,
travel, and subsistence expenses.
58.     The proposed Bank loan of US$157.4 million and Special Fund credit of
SDR 134.4 million (US$143 million equivalent) would finance 78% of the total
foreign exchange costs of about US$255 million and about US$101 million of
the local costs, and would cover about 47% of the total project cost net of
taxes and duties.  The balance of the funds required, aggregating about
US$637 million equivalent (including about US$55 million in foreign exchange)
will be provided from GOI's own resources (US$450 million) and MPEB's
internally generated funds (US$187 million). However, GOI will seek to
finance about US$85 million equivalent, representing the foreign component of
the turbogenerator sets and associated equipment, through export credits,
suppliers' credits, or commercial bank borrowing, in the event that the
contract for the turbogenerator sets is won by a foreign supplier.  If such a
cofinancing arrangement is concluded, the Bank would seek to reallocate loan
and credit proceeds not required for this purpose to other components of the
project as appropriate. The proceeds of the proposed loan and credit will be
made available by GOI to GOMP through its allocation to State funds as part
of its normal assistance to the States for development projects. GOMP, in
turn, will make these funds available to MPEB as part of its lending
contribution to MPEB's investment program, in accordance with its standard
terms for such lending. GOMP's contribution, including the Bank Group funds,
will be made available to MPEB for a period of 25 years, including five
years' grace, at GOMP's currently applicable rate of interest, not less than
7.5% per annum (Section 2.01(b) of Project Agreement). GOMP's onlending rate



-19-
will be adjusted annually, and we would expect that such adjustments would be
sufficient to maintain an interest rate which is positive in real terms. The
average inflation rate over the next five years is expected to be about 7%
per annum. The exchange and interest rate risks will be borne by the
Government of India.
Procurement and Disbursement
59.     Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:
(US$ Millions)
Procurement Method                 Total
Project Element                       ICB       LCB       Other      NA 1I    Cost
A. Civil Works:
dam, water conductor sys-       316.1                                      316.1
tem, tail-race channel       (171.7)                                    (171.7)
other civil works                           31.2                            31.2
(8.7)                           (8.7)
B. Equipment:
turbogenerator sets              88.1                                       88.1
and auxiliary equipment       (88.1)                                     (88.1)
transformers                      8.4                                        8.4
(8.4)                                      (8.4)
other equipment                   3.5       33.6                            37.1
(3.5)     (--)                             (3.5)
transport, insurance,                                  33.3                 33.3
erection                                            (4.6)                 (4.6)
C. Training, consulting,
and upgrading of data                                   3.8                  3.8
processing unit                                        (2.0)                (2.0)
D.  Land, relocation                                                 27.8        27.8
E.  Engineering and                                                  60.4        60.4
administration                                                  (--)        (--)
F.  Thermal plant                     9.0       11.0       11.4                  31.4
rehabilitation                   (9.0)      (--)       (4.0)               (13.0)
425.1      75.8       48.5      88.2       637.6
(280.7)     (8.7)    (10.6)    (--)        (300.0)
1/ Not subject to commercial procurement.
Note: (1) Figures in parentheses indicate amounts financed by the Bank Group.
(2) Amounts are net of taxes and duties.
60.     Three separate major civil works contracts will be   arded after
international competitive bidding (ICB) for the dam (US$237 million), the
water conductor system (US$48 million), and the tail-race channel
(US$31 million). The remaining civil works contracts (US$31 million),



-20-
covering the powerhouse, access roads, site buildings, staff quarters and
site utilities, will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
(LCB) under procedures acceptable to the Bank. Pre-qualification of
potential bidders will be required foDr the major civil works contracts.
Major local firms are expected to be competitive for the civil works. The
civil works for the dam will be financed from the Special Fund. The
turbogenerator sets and auxiliary equipment (US$88 million), main
transformers (US$8 million), and steel plates for penstocks and gates
(US$3 million), will be subject to ICB, whereas mriscellaneous equipment
(US$45 million) will be procured under LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Foreign suppliers would not be precluded from participating in LCB. Local
manufacturers are expected to be competitive for all of the equipment
contracts. Most of the items necessary for the thermal rehabilitation
program (boilers, turbine rotors, pumps, etc.) are expected to be subject to
ICB; some may have to be procured through limited international tendering, in
cases where there are few manufacturers or where quantities involved are
small, or through direct purchase, in the case of proprietary items. MPEB
will provide to the Bank for prior review details of the items to be procured
through limited international tendering or direct purchase. Local
contractors and manufacturers, competing under ICB, will be allowed a margin
of preference of 7.5% of the bid price for civil iworks, and a margin of 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of imported goods, or the actual customs duties and
import taxes, whichever is less, for the supply of goods. Consultants for
technical assistance and training will be selected in accordance with Bank
guidelines. All civil works contracts costing US$3,000,000 or more, and all
equipment contracts costing US$800,000 or more, will be subject to the Bank's
prior review. These contracts will cover about 75% of the total value of the
items to be procured. Other contracts will be subject to selective
post-award review.
61.     The proceeds of the loan and credit will be disbursed over an eight-
year period (FY85-FY92), and will cover 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported
goods or of the ex-factory cost of goods manufactured in India, 602 of the
cost of civil works, 50% of local expenditures for other locally-procured
items, and 100% of the cost of technical advisory services by consultants.
By the end of the sixth year, about 92% of the proceeds of the loan and
credit will have been disbursed.
The Madhya Pradesh Electricity Board
62.     MPEB was constituted in 1950 under the Electricity (Supply) Act,
1948, and is responsible for the generation, transmission and distribution
of electricity throughout the State. It constructs and operates thermal
generating stations, hydro-electric stations, and transmission and
distribution networks to supply ultimate consumers and licensees with
electric power. MPEB is not fully autonomous in executing these
responsibilities since it is controlled by the State Government in matters
of staffing, accounting, borrowing and tariff--setting. MPEB's capital
investment program is determined within the overall State and national
planning framework.
63.     MPEB is a corporate body consisting of six members including a
full-time Chairman and three full-time members for Generation, Transmission
and Distribution, and Finance. The other two members of the Board are
part-time and comprise GOMP's Finance Secretary and Energy Secretary.
Transmission and distribution responsibilities, including commercial
activities, are carried out by four regional Chief Engineers, who supervise



-21-
about nineteen 'Circles' each headed by a Superintending Engineer. MPEB
executes a considerable part. of its development program with its departmental
organization. It also owns and runs two workshops for fabrication of towers
for high-tension lines up to 400 kV, and structures for sub-stations.
64.     At the end of 1982/83, MPEB had about 63,000 regular employees and
about 30,000 daily workers. About 18,000 of the regular employees and almost
all of the daily workers are engaged in construction activities. About
44,000 of the regular staff are employed in operations and maintenance
activities. All sanctioned positions in MPEB at the top and middle
management levels are filled, and vacancies at lower levels account for less
than 8% of sanctioned posts. Staff training for engineers and chemists is
carried out at MPEB's Central Training Institute at Jabalpur. Thermal power
plant operators are trained under supervision at the Korba and Amarkantak
plants. There are also two training centers for linemen. MPEB personnel
also attend training courses on the managerial and engineering aspects of its
activities, at institutions in India and abroad.
65.     MPEB agreed to introduce, under the Third Rural Electrification
Project, a system of commercial accounting which was to be prescribed by GOI
for all SEBs. Preparation of a unified accounting system for the SEBs is
underway in GOI, although delays of about six months have been incurred on
the part of the consultant retained by GOI to develop the new system. GOI
plans to introduce the new accounting system from April 1985, and has
submitted a schedule of actions necessary for its effective implementation.
Local consultants will be hired by MPEB to prepare existing accounts for the
new system and provide the necessary guidance and training during the initial
stages of system implementation. MPEB will introduce the new accounting
system into its organization from April 1, 1985 (Section 3.04 of Project
Agreement). Details of the proposed system of accounts to be used for
project accounting purposes -- including manuals, regulations, and
formats -- will be provided to the Bank Group by MPEB by October 31, 1984.
In addition, MPEB will provide to the Bank Group certified copies of its
annual financial statements, details of the project accounts, and the
relevant audit reports of these accounts (Section 3.03 of Project Agreement).
66.     MPEB's existing computer system is used for billing, inventory
control for transmission and distribution equipment, revenue returns, staff
records, and payroll for the Jabalpur District (2,200 employees). The
expansion of existing and the introduction of new computer applications,
considered essential to MPEB's proper management and operation, are not
possible due to the limited capabilities of the existing data processing
facilities. Improvements to the computer facilities and services are being
undertaken as part of the proposed project.  Computing services will be
extended to cover new areas such as system operation (plant dispatch, load
management, interruption analysis, demand and consumption analysis),
managerial accounting, budgetary control, project management and cost
control.  In addition, existing services will be extended to cover billing
for all consumers and inventory control for all power generation stores.
67.     An aspect of utility management that has given cause for concern in
MPEB in recent years is the control of energy losses (transmission and
distribution), which have been reported to account for about 22% of energy
supplied, the highest level in India. MPEB attributes the high losses mainly
to a low load density, restrictions on power supply, and the extension of the
low-tension distribution system. MPEB and GOI have undertaken to provide by
May 31, 1984, and subsequently implement, a program of specific and



-22-
quantified measures designed to gradually reduce ?PEB's system losses to 18%
by 1989/90; this plan will address both technical and non-technical losses,
and include proposals to reduce each loss category, with specific annual
targets to be achieved (Section 3.05 of Project-Agreement).
MPEB Finances
68.     The financial operations of SEBs are regulated by the Electricity
(Supply) Act of 1948, as amended from time to time. Recently, following
discussions with the Bank Group, GOI proposed new amendments to the Act,
aimed at removing the remaining legal anomalies which prevent the SEBs from
operating along commercial lines. These amendments have now been enacted by
Parliament, and will come into effect from April 1, 1985. This timing is
acceptable, since it coincides with the planned introduction of the uniform
commercial accounting system in the SEBs (para. 65).
69.     Under the Third Rural Electrification Project, the Bank Group reacbed
agreement with GOI concerning a number of measures to be taken to improve the
financial performance of the SEBs. Such improvenent was to be measured in
terms of the SEBs each achieving annually not less than a 20% contribution to
their average annual investment. In view of the considerable growth in its
investment program (from US$300 million in 1982/83 to US$640 million in
1987/88), MPEB has experienced difficulty in achfieving this target. In order
for MPEB to achieve the targetted 20% net cash generation in 1984/85 and
subsequent years, MPEB's average revenue would haive to be sizably increased
by about 20% for 1984/85 and by between 2% and 7% per year for 1985/86
through 1991/92.  While recognizing that tariff increases are needed and are
justified from an economic point of view, GOMP considers that an increase of
this magnitude in 1984/85 is unattainable for social and administrative
reasons, and that a progressive attainment of the target would be more
appropriate.  The Bank Group consideris MPEB's position to be a reasonable
one, and has agreed to accept a gradual realization by MPEB of the cash
generation target on the basis of attainment of levels of cash generation of
8% in 1985186, 17% in 1986/87, and the covenanted 20% in 1987/88
(Section 3.07 of Project Agreement). The tariff increases required to
achieve these levels of cash generation have been estimated to be of the
order of 16% at the beginning of 1985/86, 9% for 1986/87, and 7% for 1987/88.
GOI and GOMP will prepare by May 31, 1984, a revised financing plan for
MPEB's investment program for the period 1984/85-1991/92, based upon these
intermediate targets and reflecting the necessary tariff increases that would
be required to achieve them.
70.     Presently, security deposits collected annually by MPEB from its
consumers are included in the determination of internal cash generation.  At
the end of 1982/83, these accumulated deposits amounted to about
three-quarters of the average monthly sales during the fiscal year. GOI and
MPEB have proposed, and the Bank Group has agreed, that the level of security
deposit be increased. Accordingly, MFEB will gradually raise the level of
consumers' security deposits to reach the equivalent of two months' average
sales by 1989/90, on the basis of an acceptable program (Section 3.06 of
Project Agreement).
71.     MPEB has about 2,145,000 consumers, of which about 434,000 (20%) are
industrial and commercial consumers, 1,311,000 (61%) domestic, 373,000
irrigation pumps and 27,000 miscellaneous consumers. In 1982/83 about 95% of
MPEB consumers were billed regularly, and about 72% of the revenue was from
high-tension consumption (950 consumers with individual demands of 5 MW and



-23-
above). About 94% of the revenues from all categories of consumers are
collected during the billing year and accounts receivable during the last
3 years have been less than the equivalent of 3 months billing, an acceptable
level of arrears in India.
72.     SEBs obtain most of the iunds for their investment by borrowing from
the State Governments. This practice has resulted in a debt-oriented capital
structure with almost no equity. Currently 67% of MPEB's outstanding
long-term debt is in the form of loans from GOMP, resulting in a debt/equity
ratio of about 98/2. Although the States are permitted to convert their
loans to SEBs into equity or to make equity contributions to SEBs'
investments, the States have not taken any steps in this direction. GOI is
aware of the seriousness of the situation. GOI and the Bank Group will
continue discussions on the subject in the course of their ongoing dialogue
on power sector matters with a view to determining an acceptable arrangement
in this regard.
73.     MPEB's financial requirements for the period 1984/85 through 1991/92
(the project construction period) are estimated at Rs 50,876 million
(US$5,088 million). About 81% (Rs 40,184 million) of this amount will have
to be borrowed by MPEB froum GOMP or other institutional sources. Such funds
will be made available to 1PEB in respect of capital expenditures sanctioned
by GOI under the Sixth and Seventh Five-Year Plans. Assuming that tariff
increases necessary to attain the required contribution to investment are
progressively introduced as proposed, MPEB will be able to realize, over the
period 1984/85 through 1991/92 a net cash generation of about 17% of its
overall financial requirements.
Project Justification and ELisks
74.     The proposed project is justified as part of the least-cost expansion
program for the Western Region system. Compared to the only practical
alternative--the construction of a pithead thermal station in the
Mand-Raigarh area--the proposed program has the lowest present-value cost at
any discount rate within a reasonable range. Moreover, the proposed
installed capacity (500 MW) at Bodhghat represents the optimum plant size:
site considerations preclude a 'Larger plant, and the alternative option of
smaller (300 MW, 400 MW) plants result in significant increases in overall
systems costs within the same discount rate range. The economic rate of
return for the program, using average retail tariffs and quantifiable
consumers' surplus as benefit proxies for consumers' willingness to pay for
continuous power supply--the minimum quantifiable estimate-- is about 11%.
However, the actual rate of return would be considerably higher if additional
expected benefits--such as derived producers' surpluses for industrial,
agricultural, and commercial consumers, made possible by the alleviation of
power shortages--are taken into account. Moreover the construction of the
project would not only alleviate peak shortages in the Western Region but
would also permit a more balanced operation of the thermal system, with
considerable savings in operation and maintenance costs.
75.     There are no extraordinary technical risks in the project since the
works to be constructed are well within the bounds of known engineering
technology. Reservoir water tightness and bank stability have been confirmed
by independent consultants appointed by the Bank. Sediment load studies show
that the 700 million cubic meters of dead storage would be sufficient for
around 100 years, or twice the economic life of the project, which is
considered satisfactory. Risks associated with inadequate construction



-24-
supervision or contract management have been kept to within acceptable limits
through the provision of appropriate consultant assistance to MPEB, as
needed. The risk of insufficient funds for the project is low, considering
that MPEB's annual contribution will represent less than 5% of its annual
investments in 1983, and is expected to remain at about that level during
project implementation. Consequently, the project is not expected to pose an
unduly heavy burden on MPEB's finances.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.     The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft
Special Fund Credit Agreement between India and the Association as
Administrator of the Special Fund, the draft Project Agreement between the
Bank, the Association as Administrator of the Special Fund and the State of
Madhya Pradesh, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
77.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
78.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan wolild comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and the Special Fund credit would comply with
Resolution IDA 82-6 of the Executive Directors of the Association
establishing the Special Fund.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
and Special Fund credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
April 24, 1984



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /i
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
bRECENT              LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCHIE
1960--!     1970   ESTIMATE-            ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA 6 PACIFIC
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM)
TOTAL                                3287.6       3287.6       3287.6
AGRICULTURAL                         1760.7       1780.5       1811.3
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      70.0        100.0        260.0               276.7                      1028.6
ENERGY CONSUMFTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL FQUIVALENT)        114.0        165.0       210.0                398.4                       792.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  434850.0    547569.0    690183.0
URBAN POPULATION (7 OF TOTAL)          18.0         19.8        23.7                 21.5                        32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                              1001.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                1838.3
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                 2140
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                         132.3        166.6       205.3                161.7                      260.7
PER SQ. EF. AGRI. LAND              247.0       307.5        372.7                363.1                     1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                            40.9         42.7        39.7                 36.6                       39.4
15-64 YRS                            54.5         54.2        57.2                 59.2                       57.2
65 AND ABOVE                          4.6          3.1         3.0                  4.2                        3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 1.8          2.3         2.1                  1.9                        2.3
URBAN                                 2.5          3.3         3.7                  4.0                         3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           43.7         40.0        35.4                 29.3                        31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           21.8         16.7        13.3                 10.9                         9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.9          2.7          2.4                 2.0                         2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)            64.0      3782.0       6826.0
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         12.0        23.0                 48.1                       46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                          98.0        102.0       107.0                111.4                      125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X OF REOUIREMENTS)         96.0         90.0        87.0                 98.1                      114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             54.0         50.0        47.0                56.7                        57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           17.0         15.0        13.0/c              13.9                        14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            26.2         20.7        17.0                 12.2                         7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          43.2         48.1         52.2                59.6                        60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         165.0       139.0        121.2                96.6                        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                  . .        17.0        33.0/d               32.9                       37.1
URBAN                                  ..         60.0        83.071               70.8                       54.8
RURAL                                  . .         6.0        20.07d               22.2                       26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         18.0        20.0/e               18.1                       41.4
URBAN                                  ..         85.0        87.o/e               72.7                       47.5
RURAL                                  .           1.0         2.071                4.7                       33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             4850.0      4890.0       3640.0/f            3506.0                      7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             10980.0/_    8300.0       5380.071            4797.9                      2462.6
,.                        POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              2180.0       1650.0      1310.0/d            1100.6                      1047.2
URBAN                                  .            ..       370.071             298.4                       651.1
RURAL                                  . .                 10410.07d            5941.6                      2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..          ..                   .                        27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.2          5.6          5.2/e                .
URBAN                                 5.2          5.6         4.87'e
RURAL                                 5.2          5.6         5.37T                 .
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                 2.6         2.8            .
URBAN                                 2.6          2.8
RURAL                                 2.6          2.8
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
--- - - - - - - - -- - - -- -- - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - -- - - - - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - -- -- - - - - - - - -    - - - -     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -- - -- - - - -- --_ _ _ _ - - -



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
0/b         O/b  RECENT  ,b           LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
196G-        1970   ESTIMATE-            ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                      61.0        73.0          76.0/f              96.1                       101.2
MALE                      80.0         90.0         9O.O7?             107.8                        106.0
FEMALE                    40.0         56.0         61.07?              82.9                         97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     20.0         26.0          28.0/f              30.2                        44.9
MALE                      30.0         36.0         37.07f              37.3                         50.0
FEMALE                    10.0        15.0          18.07?              22.2                        44.6
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)              2.8          1.0          0.7/e               2.3                         18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              46.0         41.0          43.0/f              34.4                        32.7
SECONDARY                            16.0         21.0           ..                 18.4                        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 27.8         33.4         36.0                53.5                        72.9
coImEurr iou
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              0.6          1.1          1.3/f               1.6                          9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             4.9         21.5        44.4                 96.8                       113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                0.0          0.0          1.7                 9.9                        50.1
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                10.6         16.2         19.7                16.4                        54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          3.2          4.1          3.7/e               3.6                         3.4
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          185951.0    219194.0    271179.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     30.7         32.5         31.8                 33.3                        33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                74.0         74.0         69.3                 69.0                        50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   11.0         11.0         13.2                 15.8                        19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                42.8         40.0         39.3                 42.5                        38.6
MALE                                  57.0         52.4         51.9                54.4                        50.7
FEMALE                               27.3         26.9         25.9                 29.8                        26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1          1.1         1.1                  1.0                         1.1
fNCOIE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGREST 57 OF HOUSEHOLDS              26.7        26.3/h       22.2/e               16.5                        22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            51.7         48.97W       49.47;'              43.5                        48.0
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               4.1          6.7Fh        7.07e               6.9                         6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              13.6         17.27h       16.27;              17.5                        15.5
POVERTY TARGET iROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..       132.0                133.9                       194.5
RURAL                                  .,           ..        114.0                111.6                       155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                   ..                      178.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..                   ..                       164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (7)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        40.3                 43.8                        24.4
RURAL                                   ..          .,         50.7                 51.7                        41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform,
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1978; /g 1962; /h 1964-65.
May 1983



ANNEX I
Page 3 of .5
DyFPltfLOtS OF SOCIAL IOlIOCTOtS
tot:    lbog  tedoo  are druototet-t  eta if  odgcd the soar  -horai-e- and -etocbte, it aooId elnb  ntdcOttey-    o  be"oeoteal
cotrblebcna fth   ak ofed-derdted   efuito   ndn.cps wee .d by different c                               Lnti.    co1llec tg the da..Th.t data ac,. etle.osolo
deacribe order' of  "aooueOdin-t  trends, and                      -oac Ii etain  -aJ.r doffcrl-cts beoeoourre
Itterefeeun   grop. at (   th  eas  contryl groop of the tobetnotrad2  a cootr  group  ith tteehoa  higher average i-os  the  oht cou..r geoap of the
subjetcute    Hnytfr"ilS I-cos" Otil toportere"_ gcoo hther-"ftdl   noeeoi                                  dMic   o iddle  .teat  is cfae  becanee ofatogrec-oic
grnop baa dtto  for ibat iodictor..  Since  the,. nrgen  noun.ruce_ _ou Rtow  Ot mauedpoa  nteoaici  u  fdaacdS   otutna   au  t wth
aoertiaed in rleistig a.eragee of no. itdoca-ttro ohe.Th.esarage   are. o....ly umefol1 tncp-arlug neS taI-t of Inut todiator-  aI  nice as     the coostry cad
AREfA fuheosod  qo.k.)                                                                              "ouatn   nretpicit- FopoLtit  do.ided byteaofpatcg
- Ttal Iwlan    ret cpyiting Icod creednd inletd natere; 19fbo,                         _hecat   oT n           ro   ptdicl scolaoitrtyeei
1970 and 10fdat.                                                                               ptooiotrNrig'eao    ouutcdodd  yobro   teto
urhet  codrura   dirdod Pylthft i-cpdlide     l noaber o   bopteal bade
091  17.  n  1901 d ata,                                                                       by       ..0 lea   e    hacc.Etlaetapot1o petotipa1ity, cetdia
GNP PER CMIT    S$_ - GNP P-  -pit'   -1 InII-nl  -kcoreare not feclde&d.  total'l boaporals  lenarer  dal   heple.lb ot
iPaTRol    0  otteint ".t OdITA-Ooa   pceocoupito   oeia                                              a Orail--i reo br 000  pee iaeot   staffed bya pleyi.itaa  hbotby    saio
0961, 1070, aod  9ff data,                                                           urbanhoapftcie Ooclot  tttoeII tnIaff.daobetra   bepeLb. ead tarot
LRI l.,    In ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     uplaa,Ino   rrta   opoascdaeia   nd.triocees
Total 1970itlu,   id-ee 19     hwooal--ofJly0   90,190  ed101Miatt  taruwaialtd   -Toaf oohe  of.  L-P."ine  toordecer
...ug nooreoIOO   91   n   t    et                                                              urw    Lat of LtoabLd                                            ,--o,-oP.wtod)-tta.cha.aM  ca
toalppoaInoy  gean of  sota anth - -i.    ootn   o oernibloyLthe t.utIbold lot                                 d  a thioa  p-,pome
D  ooe=      nenioprooecfrortlOyrtolopft  futederaoct  o   aan  crrn-oalb                                                                       ra,co   ua   ttotaso
june0 ceuelu  lotaynan   chrtinrc  u   ttnwnysnr                                            fpnoaptro   nd -rba-,  nd rora  toupedoee..                       ea
napta  tnot ltel, sd facl  lif   cayetoonyPcccbifloty at 77.5                           olloO,raenol.Me   unaoldoonraettaor
ytam.   heporceatafo  f 1c8i dyrot  aa   aoore   etenonut pre
cawtogdnlneOrtrcity  corio oC-tet.,e  dd  at  oay                                        ce-tnie-ru  fp19ecnto  d.t Og)h    ttl. Irbaf Iantoso 
plaotug   artuoanc.  tet contryIa ten asignd no  of  heectna            huoet total      . I.  d  bllugot deenrt1ntoy   to 1oi Y  -oatr  we pertl ta
tnosiatoaofereli   ndEriliytr efo   rjeto   prora.o  total. orban, and rurald LotnIpftge rLeorrey
Soatoory   ntuattn-ctmwt unay prnlth       R tht  he ungra4
* lon  ott  Irth  ctt i  equt on  tt deth rae, en  ala  the oge             toCnTfn
anrwnturteaatneotatont   ThIe t  anhiane  only ooer tee 11 it0cutta  Ododnod ErolIlatn OatLo
fPro..torwoetnrplc- eeenh-r lend             n .  .nontrlooi,  rterale.uhnl_eoo_leo   aoe2                                                                  eattprn
nea   tattancnnano   Ianine    h   ew._nacomw7                                                      ln.    utppl  oeSle  rcne  h   ffoilaEoiat
poynltion  lto  011 h  reoned.                                        enottwrn ..Inl-  total, ac1  adfmLe-; Aopwt "I'l a;l                  atoa
Ptnai     f eat                                                                              adoration ceqoirto on 1-Jft-  I~ Iroan you  ferao  aytndpratySeutIa
Pa   tIh.   idyorppuain  ..r aquekiY              et P1ff 1enoortahI ofIpnn bida                                 d toneat,nununl,n ornenbr  rcotgtotrcoioa  o
popolotint;  960, 19ff, wd 1901 dano.rocil-leonhe   not lo-crew                                                   - and aenndar-Tnta Feonoaooudt
Pnonanio  Oroth tnt Ientrt I   yonor -00 Itnoa   t,,ot  fut   Pnnlod                        reradendr   eet  tIe   onaoao   taaOttect
pec  powltio  to 150hf,lOh-O, ad  9ffOf           ftdwpwi-dlngenere-la.
-ine   ltn   aeIn            I tuaf  - Ocooal lon hiroYayenldtwond of6old
Y.co  -oynto...    196f  170,tnd191 data                                                     Cf90 -PIr
Iruda  etot tte (nr Otootd    -'-un 'un  d Ywtt  y hen tt`odn   u-orPtene   oe(e   tuo d -c-loto                                              --Yege  noanopi    tu
P..mes 1-" terounto  twil-lnecage-hebot of dPPttortwata.c   wIll boortooil nogy ottilot
fetliyrce;naotyfoayc  ueafordigtoIhI                                                                                                      C-,cu  ttdaltttora   ubudytth-ad  fpouato;e-lda   0
1981t.            ,  n  '6Odt:                                                            Inenidnono-,iorlu oortantotaeftneutainfrdh
taanny          Elowo-u _cro la ,ndo(hncdal-oob untfoshen                Innotr                     eec,nefn;aoocnt                      ttatannbnnrebetce
9rgro.TOOttoaInrhusd   yepuwlo      Otrteofrhtdcot
PPemtlirnoot.ug-tfarc  fntnp           ouanednon-  orent           t 11de  of- aurr..d taeann-lnrboednoltn;o-neolleedSteaot
ooaleontnhldherinnn   (5-1 rorleccoh .ttn. trndclro                                               I rrcn..nntdnncnruteronenrrlncflo..c.
ul   orld oonI  onot n..e oru.d..touci nocd  l-nnc-olo   I ,c-  thool    n,oin-na    h   n
onnol podnnlnoor ol fnd ncanInieM. -81  rrdnonnonneatotdon d-                            toh-0100i,O raen at                      d-yttat  f-disaa et.L
hooed  no no bol uo6ag p9n,ndneprnueiholt-O.97,ad18
Cldate.l                                                                                      lAOt00 pfrttO
toegyoqutao  ofotfnd  epp1n98               nllhle    O  notr  pt"epi  yn                           oraaed' otplrd  ottoloto  ownaue,tidote  ae.  otri.
otyors , nd thugesIuatck.  tn a fplit  ogcod  anLe fod,atdy cnpr hlt;  000  09                                        P ..d 0901 data...-
an19 o    n  heutnnincn  au driotta  oesyetoocre                7, hopatbn,                          itndantetg   ftttOhrfre   RO   91adlt    ae
at tooehold  anel 11961-6, 10ffund 190 doto                                         ood ttntcuttr, tter on  0ca a  no rnotage  f tota  labortottI   0_60
net epplyof fnd rt na.  Nu  auply o  fon  to  afind atuluo.                     rttinlatfY   tof:te  ycet -11,.1E total, yae., and ftal-aotpn
poltepoer idn,  fttc   fgaosoletolulpott    ho                                                    0      00   r 198  daa-Td enc  bate  on Id'  tri  pmtose
toodera ea  one  thr      __o of7   ra   fttlpoen  o   3TVtrflnioag-n   tutt   fteppncwo   o   o    Oete
ntwoitnlprnonoataoanoruo  fnrettoold,yrnpoatnyPofinoho             oeoantaanttro  fnoonetnuula...        ned
Iedata.                                                                                      1900  ,15110171-
cnunrrto  daadrtd   reff   aho;16,100wn18  dana.CinemaAnnld A-do.                                                         li-      ,Y
Ltay    Id                 rtntThn- Til...d                   nntiIf 000                                                                            -.   I  .1'         I
of bIrth; 1061, 1970 and 10Sf daco.         Zftn-ld te loteryra ted alot cnoetderbeneu to.n.
foorof ot pa  thnsuodltcohnrce 1  960,1070au61005197dato.    98                    Ohbiloe-- poeo   nooIutitte   ooeltlStn   Otbaatt
Acaa  fSotOue  Ienatnfpnootol- oal   rhn  admcl-                                         otI ocly  dqut  de  ct  etota  uotodrtara'                            t   e
Feenabo. of poplo    ca,uho  ao   oclOnhttaohoaco   o  oeaFORdCbE
oeoartnnoft (Includes oreoted ourtuno oaonca n  nutnanted hot          letisatod  InelaniTe Poveoty InFto O,eohl (1nd    not E.o.t.)--_op..a.e.di total 
q-luhare of. the  fontlddnt p -ig ban  toennFa larorlnau   pctt
ottdoq   I  fti in  the foly' a eater ne de.
unetotonratu  eui_noan                          Inere-tofbopoonfo)-.ttal  oron,an
dorl-ouoctibnrIe-l,tntloh            anncurollLt..lertp  . nodIhbntfrurreiieng
ho .Pt.a -o-,tln an  nantr-oat pr hf  ooe-     -u oFne.t. cc -thenot  ol pin                        t1970                                    oaylewdtcjcto              ears
prtcletaoneinnler tnntollfutdlLedefind,..                                                                                                 Ocy R  10e3



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA. IN 1981 US$250
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981/82                                                            ANNUAL RATE CF GROWTN (%, constant prices) -
US$ Bln .     X                  1955/56-1959/60  1960/61-1964/65  1965/66-1969/70  1970/71-1974/75
GNP at Market Prices            165.38    100.0                          3.7               3.6              3.6               2.9
Gross Domestic Investment        41.74      25.2
Gross National Saving            37.66      22.8
Current Account Balance          -4.08     - 2.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added (at factor cost)             Labor Force i/           V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bln.             %             Mil.        %                  US$      X of National Average
Agriculture                      39.8               39.6            180.6      70.7                220            56
Industry                         25.2               25.1            32.2      12.6                783            199
Services                         35.5               35.3            42.6      16.7                833            211
Total/Average                   100.5              100.0           255.4    100.0                 394            100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government             e/                     _    Central Government
Rs.Bln.         X  of  GDP                                     Rs._Bln.        1  of  GDP
1981/82      1981/82  1977/78-1981/82                         1981/82     1981/82 1977/78-1981/82
Current Receipts                    285.77         19.4         19.1                                149.2E      10.1        10.4
Current Expenditures                280.34         19.0         18.2                                155.03      10.5        10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit               5.43          0.4          0.9                                 -5.75     -0.4         -0.2
Capital Expenditures f/             116.91          7.9          7.8                                83.66        5.7         5.5
External Assistance (net) d/         16.45          1.1          1.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES            1970/71  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82    February 1982                 February 1983
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money               110.2      224.8    277.8    329.1    401.1    472.3    554.5    625.5            615 5                      711.7
Bank Credit to Government(net)    54.6          69.2      77.6      76.4      94.2    124.1    164.4    204.4         292.2                      353.5
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector  65.2         156.2    188.5    212.2    255.3    310.1    3162.8    430.4           422.2                      487.7
(percentage or Index Numbers)                              April-Feb 1981/82    April-Feb 1982/83
Money and Qasi Money
as % of GDP                       27.4       30.3      34.6      36.5      41.2      44.1      43.3      42.5
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 = 100)                  100.0      173.0    176.6    185.8    185.8    217.6    257.3    281.3                 281.7                a 287.3
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                 7.7       -1.1       2.1       5.2       -        17.1      18.2        9.3            10.0                O  2.0
Bank Credit to Government (net)   15.0            6.3      11.1     16.3      16.0      25.6      29.6      19.1             22.7 yl                21.0
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector  20.5          22.7      20.7      12.6      20.3      21.5      17.0      18.7             20.9 g/                15.5 h/
a/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, using World Bank Atlas  methodology, base: period 1979-1981.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/ Quick Estimates, Central Statistical Organization.
c/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation befo:re first year and one observation after last
year of listed period.
d/ World Bank estimates of net disbursement; not necessarily consistenit with official figures.
e/  Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/  All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
g/ Percentage change from end-March 1981 to end-February 1982.
h/ Percentage change from end-March 1982 to end-February 1983.
Ti  Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown from Sixth Five Year Plan, Table 2.6 and Annexvre Table 13.8.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS              1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83                MERCHBANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978/79-1981/82)
(US$ Mln.)                                                                                                       US$ Mln.    X
Exports of Goods q/               7,948    8,504    8,511    8,800                 Engineering Goods               901       11
Imports of Goods j/             -11,383  -16,119  -15,253  -14,801                 Tea                             457        6
Trade Balance                    -3,435   -7,615   -6,742   -6,001                 Gems                            759       10
NFS (net)                         1,042    1,365    1,120    1,088                 Clothing                        556        7
Leather & Leather Products    470         6
Resource Balance                 -2,393   -6,250   -5,622   -4,913                 Jute Manufactures               279        4
Iron Ore                        352       4
Interest Income (net) k/            287      600       212      -128               Cotton Textiles                 319        4
Net Transfers  1/                 1,852    2,771    1,577    1,668                 Sugar                           104        1
Others                        3,789      47
Balance on Current Account         -254   -2,879   -3,833   -3,373
Official Aid                                                                       Total                         7,986      100
Gross Disbursements               1,218    1,629    1,821    1,933                 EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1982
Amortization                      1,894    2,338    2,475    2,569
US5 billion
r           Transactions with IMF               -       1,035       690    1,980               Outstanding and Disbursed                 18.3
All Other Items  o/                -740      -130   -1,075      -358               Undisbursed                                8.5
Outstanding, including                   26.8
Increase in Reserves (-)           -224       345    2,397      -182                 Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year) p/    7,204    6,859    4,462    4,644
Net Reserves (end year) m/        7,204    6,532    3,498    1,703                 DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82 4/  n/  8.9 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                         IBRD/IDA LENDING, as of February 28, 1983
Imports (Petroleum) q/            4,046    6,657    5,570    4,686                                                        us$ million
IBRD         IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed          1,357         6,688
Undisbursed                         1,896        4,270
Outstanding including
Undisbursed                      3,253        10,958
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971             US$1.00 = Rs 7.50                       Spot Rate end-March 1983:  Us$1.00 = Rs 10.03
RB 1.00 = US$0.13333                                                Rs 1.00 = US$0.0997
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972:        US$1.00 = Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 = Ds$0.137376
After end-June 1972                 :      Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1981         :      US$1.00 = Rs 9.099
Rs 1.00 = US$0.110
Spot R,j/e end-December 1982        :      US$1.00 = Rs 9.634
Rs 1.00 = U5$0.104
j   Estimated.
k/  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans and charges paid to
1MF, and major receipts is interest earned on foreign assets.
l/  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance which is included within
official aid disbursements.
m/  Excludes net use of IMF credit.
n/  Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.and current transfers.
o/  Includes commercial borrowing.
p/  Excluding gold.
q/ Net of crude petroleum exports.






ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1983)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank        IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
48 Loans/                                              1,688.0          -              -
83 Credits fully disbursed                                 -        4,759.0            -
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                       -           30.0          11.56
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                   -           83.0           6.83
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                       -           27.7           6.30
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                  -           16.4          -0.11
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                   -          105.0           3.12
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                 -          150.0           3.95
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development         -           18.0           3.25
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0          -            44.92
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                     25.0          -            15.89
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport               25.0          -             4.77
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development             -           30.0          13.37
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development             -           20.0           3.30
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power               -          150.0           7.45
690-IN    1977      West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research                -           12.0          10.29
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0          -             4.08
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development               -           10.0           0.49
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation             -           23.0           6.99
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development        -            8.0           3.96
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                -           70.0           4.05
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                     78.5          -             2.49
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage              -          107.0          61.57
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II         -           87.0           6.51
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                           -            8.0           5.81
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector             25.0          -             2.54
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power         105.0          -             8.38
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                  -          117.6          52.30
793-IN    1978      Korba Therma:L Power                  -          200.0          47.64
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture            -           14.0          11.01
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                    -           85.0          19.30
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -           17.5           9.98
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                     -           16.0           8.88
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII              120.0          -            22.27
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                        -          150.0          76.70
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                -          196.0         156.24
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                       -          190.0          48.31
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage        -           38.0           8.48
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research        -           27.0          18.96
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -             25.0          7.58



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank        IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
871-IN    1979      National Cooperative Development
Corporation                         -           30.0           5.51
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power             5c0.0         -            50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              -          200.0          41.57
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                      -         129.0          61.80
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply              -           48.0          15.25
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II        -          175.0          21.96
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry         -           23.0           8.05
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II             -          210.0          82.85
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry            -           37.0          15.27
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                       -          20.0          17.90
981-IN    1980      Population II                          -          46.0          36.41
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                   -          32.0          23.97
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                  -         175.0         121.65
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                              -          22.0          18.24
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                   -         300.0         213.36
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension          -          10.0           8.99
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport               -          56.0          23.21
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                 -           54.0          41.38
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage  --             80.0          61.54
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                   100.0          -            10.61
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                25.0          -            25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 --         225.0         170.60
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                   30.0          -            23.46
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore Development  400.0            -             7.41
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                     -           35.0          23.58
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                     -           83.0          72.77
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II           -           42.0          29.04
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                -          140.0         128.41
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII               -          314.0         176.21
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation                         54.0          53.45
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project             -          400.0         281.64
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.                     23.0          20.24
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -           28.0          23.88
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -           37.0          35.73
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                -          125.0         106.34
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project II        -          400.0         367.32
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -          220.0         199.76
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                100.0          -            61.58
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry            -          29.0          25.41
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development              -           25.0          21.68
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                           150.0          -           104.43
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II         300.0          -           300.00
2095-IN    1982      ARDC IV                              190,0         -           121.32
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -              6.0           5.50
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization          200,0          -           171.60
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrification III           304,,5         -           300.00
2186-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                   20.,3         _            20.00



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank        IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
1269-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                     -          60.0          45.33
1280-IN    1983      Gujarat Water Supply                   -          72.0          71.39
1286-IN    1983      Jammu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry             -           33.0          31.06
1288-IN    1983      Chambal Madhya Pradesh                 -           -
Irrigation II                       -           31.0          26.94
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation                -         127.0         121.37
2205-IN    1983      Krishna-Godavari Exploration         165.5         -           158.92
2210-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                    200.0          -           197.04
1299-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                      -          200.0         197.01
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development       222.3          -           219.01
1319-IN    1983      Haryana Irrigation II                 -          150.0         143.60
1332-IN    1983      U.P. Public Tubewells II              -          101.0         101.00
1356-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power           -          170.0         170.00
2278-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power         156.4          -           156.01
1369-IN    1983      Calcutta Urban Development III*       -          147.0         147.00
1383-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization         -           32.0          32.00
2308-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization        22.7          -            22.64
2283-IN    1983      Central Power Transmission*         250.7          -           250.70
2295-IN    1983      Himalayan Watershed Management       46.2          -            46.08
2329-IN    1983      Madhya Pradesh Urban*                24.1          -            24.10
1397-IN    1984      Orissa Irrigation II*                 -          105.0         105.00
Total                                    5,183.2    11,851.2
of which has been repaid               1,251.2        136.1
Total now outstanding                    3,932.0    11,715.1
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8          -            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/        3,932.0    11,715.1
Total undisbursed (excluding *)          2,100.45    4,124.24
1/  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2/  Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to t!heir IJS dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on the dates of disbursement.
3/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of Septemer 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Year                      Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5         -       1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.8         -       0.8
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -       0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahinora Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3     13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3      1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1        0.1      1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8     18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6         -       6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0       1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5       1.2       8.7
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -      38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -      15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9        0.3      3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3         -       2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5        0.2      1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0         -      28.0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.             18.8         -       18.8
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.              15.7         -      15.7
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.             8.3         -       8.3
1984             The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.        4.2         -        4.2
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         211.6       12.1    223.7
Less:   Sold                          53.0        3.4      56.4
Repaid                        30.1         -      30.1
Cancelled                     16.1        1.4     17.5
Now Held                     112.4        7.3    119.7
Undisbursed                   82.9         -      82.9



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
BODHGHAT HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:          Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the proiect
About nine years.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Central Electricity Authority, in conjunction with Central
Water Commission and Madhya Pradesh Electricity Board.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
the first mission to consider the project
The projecl: was first formally presented to the Bank
in September 1982; a preparation mission visited India in
October 1982.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
October 3, 1983.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 5, 1984.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
August 31, 1984.
Section II:    Special Bank and IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) Completion, by June 30, 1986, of detailed engineering
for construction of proposed Barsoor-Bhilai 400 kV
transmission line, for completion by 1990 (para. 49);
(b) Introduction of commercial accounting system in MPEB,
by April 1, 1985 (para. 65);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) Attainment by MPEB, by 1987/88, of a contribution to
investment of 20% of its average annual capital invest-
ment (para. 69);
(d) Provision by May 31, 1984, and subsequent
implementation, of an energy loss reduction program
(para. 67);
(e) Execution of a study on electricity metering practices,
to be completed by May 1986 (para. 53); and
(f) Implementation of a program to increase consumers'
security deposits (para. 70).



IBRr 17147
INDIA
BODHGHAT HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Power System of Western Region
Project Location
0
0
x-
M,,-u
p,.p.2.6 HY6-1o- p'.1-t
0       Tl-- P-, tW-
N-1- P.- blW
4DO K V
220 K V
2 2 ()K
1 3 2, v
2  V V    1.
st.r. B... d--
Z.                                                                                                               'IrF    l,t ..........



A
i
I



