FFICIAL               SPECIAL FUND CREDIT NUMBER SF 20 IN
DOCUNIENTS
Special Fund Credit Agreement
(Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND
established with funds contributed by
certain members of the
International Development Association
Dated                             , 1985


﻿SPECIAL FUND CREDIT NUMBER SF 20 IN
SPECIAL FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             eL               , 1985, between
INDIA, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVZLOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of
the SPECIAL FUND established with funds contributed by certain
members of the International Development Association (hereinafter
called the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) by Resolution No. IDA 82-6, adopted on Octo-
ber 26, 1982, of the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (hereinafter called IDA) there has been
established by IDA a Special Fund constituted by the funds which
shall be contributed by certain members of IDA and administered
by IDA, acting as Administrator of such Special Fund, for the
purpose of, and in accordance with, the provisions of said
Resolution;
(B) the Borrower has requested of the Administrator assis-
tance from the resources of the Special Fund in the financing of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and the
Administrator has determined that such assistance would be in
accordance with the provisions of the Resolution referred to
above;
(C)  the Borrower has also requested International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank
(hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the Bank is agreeing
to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to one hundred fifty-seven million four hundred
thousand dollars ($157,400,000) (hereinafter called the Bank
Loan);
(D) the Project will be carried out by the State of Madhya
Pradesh through the Madhya Pradesh Electricity Board with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the State of Madhya Pradesh the
proceeds of the Special Fund Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Special Fund Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated June 30, 1980, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means    the  International  Development  Association
acting as the Administrator of the Special Fund referred to in
the Preamble to this Special Fund Credit Agreement;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and
"Credit Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, are
amended to read "Special Fund Credit Agreement", "Special Fund
Credit" and "Special Fund Credit Account", respectively;
(c) the second sentence of Section 5.01 is deleted; and
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Special Fund Resolution" means Resolution No. IDA 82-6
of the Executive Directors of IDA which, inter alia, establishes
the Special Fund;
(b)  "Part I member of IDA" means a member of IDA with
respect to which the terms and conditions of membership are those
prescribed in the Articles of Agreement of IDA for countries
whose names are listed in Part I of Schedule A to those Articles;


﻿-3-
(c)  "Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA which is
not a Part I member of IDA;
(d) "Madhya Pradesh" means the State of Madhya Pradesh, a
State of India, and includes any successor thereto;
(e) "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the
Administrator, the Bank and the State of Madhya Pradesh of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement and all
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(f)  "Loan Agreement" means    the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and
such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, as made
applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement; and
(g)  "Board" means the Madhya Pradesh State Electricity
Board  established  under   the  provisions  of  the  Electricity
(Supply) Act, 1948, of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Special Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Special Fund Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred twenty-two million Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 122,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Special Fund Credit may
be withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if
the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund
Credit.


﻿(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories of: (A) any Part II member of IDA; and (B) any Part I
member of IDA which fulfills the conditions set forth in para-
graph 13 (d) (ii) of the Special Fund Resolution on the date of
this Agreement, as determined by the Administrator.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992 or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Admin-
istrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Special Fund Credit not
withdrawn from time to time.   The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Special Fund Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Special Fund Credit Account or
shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the amount withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit
Account and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually   on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the principal
amount of the Special Fund Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each March 15 and September 15 commencing September


﻿-5-
15, 1994 and ending March 15, 2034, each installment to and
including the installment payable on March 15, 2004 to be one-
half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Special Fund
Credit Agreement, shall cause Madhya Pradesh to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
Madhya Pradesh to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Special
Fund Credit available to Madhya Pradesh in accordance with the
Borrower's standard arrangements for developmental assistance to
the States of India.
Section 3.02. As long as the Administrator has not given
notice to the contrary to the Borrower and so long as the Loan
Agreement shall have not terminated prior to the termination of
this Agreement: (i) the obligations of the Borrower to consult
with and to furnish, or cause to be furnished, information,
documents, reports, records and statements to the Administrator
shall be satisfied to the extent performance in respect of such
obligations is rendered to the Bank; (ii) the obligations of the
Administrator to consult with and to furnish information to the
Borrower shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are
fulfilled by the Bank; and (iii) all actions taken (including the
giving of approvals or the granting of waivers) by the Admini-


﻿-6-
strator pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be taken
pursuant to both the Special Fund Credit Agreement and the Loan
Agreement and in the name and on behalf of both the Administrator
and the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Madhya Pradesh shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that Madhya Pradesh will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Administrator to the
Borrower and Madhya Pradesh.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section  5.01. The following event is      specified  as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Special Fund
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, except for the effectiveness
of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished  to   the  Administrator,  namely,   that  the  Project


﻿-7-
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by Madhya Pradesh,
and is legally binding upon Madhya Pradesh in accordance with its
terms.
Section 5.03. The date                J     , 1985, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Sec on       12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on the date on which the Special
Fund Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date thirty years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
Section 5.05. In the event that the Executive Directors of
IDA decide to terminate the functions of IDA as administrator of
the Special Fund pursuant to paragraph 17 of the Special Fund
Resolution, the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower,
designate another party which, on the date specified in such
notice, shall assume part or all of the rights and obligations of
the Administrator under this Agreement in accordance with the
Special Fund Resolution and such decision of the Executive
Directors, as specified in such notice.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India


﻿-8-
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Fund
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By/,5/0
Au orized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND
established with funds contributed by
certain members of the International
Development Association
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Special Fund Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Special Fund Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Special Fund
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Works for the dam        122,000,000       51%
Total          122,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentage has been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Administrator that the proceeds of
the Special Fund Credit shall not be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufac,ture,
procurement or supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of
any such taxes levied on or in respect of icems in any Category
decreases or increases, the Administrator may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursemeat percentage then
applicable to such Category as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Administrator.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Special Fund Credit, and the Administrator may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy


﻿- 10 -
of the Administrator under the Special Fund Credit Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Special Fund
Credit as, in the Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Special Fund
Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to provide additional
power generation capacity in Madhya Pradesh and thereby in the
Western Region of India, and to strengthen the Board's data
processing facilities. The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   The construction of a power house housing four 125 MW
turbo generating sets and associated electrical and
mechanical equipment.
Part B:   The construction of a combined gravity and rock-fill
dam, about 90 m high and about 1,650 m long, in the
Indravati River.
Part C:   The construction of a water conductor system composed
of a head race tunnel of about 12 m in diameter and
3,000 m long, a surge tank, and four pressure shafts
about 400 m long and 6 m diameter.
Part D:   The construction of a tailrace open channel about 5 km
long.
Part E:   The acquisition and erection of step-up transformers
(11/220 kV), switchyard equipment, and about 5 km of
220 kV double circuit transmission line to connect the
Project, to the nearby existing Barsoor substation.
Part F:   The carrying out of a plant rehabilitation program in
Madhya Pradesh through repairs to and upgrading of
identified thermal units.
Part G:   The construction of roads, bridge, residential quarters
and buildings, and provision of site services and
facilities.
Part H:   The upgrading, expansion    and modernization   of  the
Madhya Pradesh State Electricity Board's data process-
ing facilities, including development of software and
purchase of necessary computer equipment.
*          *         *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1991.


