OF FICAL1          LOAN NUMBER 2416 IN
DocuMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                 1985


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2416 IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         -aA/,"  /    7       , 1985, between
INDIA, acting by its Presiden   (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and   INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR   RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) by Resolution No. IDA 82-6, adopted on October 26,
1982, of the Executive Directors of the International Development
Association (hereinafter called the Association) there has been
established by the Association a Special Fund constituted by
the funds which shall be contributed by certain members of the
Association and administered by the Association, acting as
Administrator of such Special Fund, for the purposes of, and in
accordance with, the provisions of said Resolution;
(C) the Borrower has requested the Administrator for assis-
tance from the resources of the Special Fund in the financing of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the
Administrator has determined that such assistance would be in
accordance with the provisions of the Resolution referred to
above;
(D) by the Special Fund Credit Agreement (hereinafter
called the Special Fund Credit Agreement) of even date herewith,
the Administrator has agreed to make available to the Borrower a
Special Fund Credit (hereinafter called the Special Fund Credit)
to assist in the financing of such Project in an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to one hundred twenty-two million
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 122,000,00), on the terms and condi-
tions therein set forth;
(E) the Project will be carried out by the State of Madhya
Pradesh through the Madhya Pradesh State Electricity Board with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the State of Madhya Pradesh the
proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon


﻿-2-
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Proje-t
Agreement of even date herewith between the Administrator, the
Bank and State of Madhya Pradesh;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof, namely,
that the terms "Association" and "Development Credit Agreement"
wherever  used   shall  include   also  to  mean,   "International
Development Association acting as Administrator of the Special
Fund" and "Special Fund Credit Agreement", respectively (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement, in the
Special Fund Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
Applicable to the Special Fund Credit Agreement have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the term "Special Fund Credit
Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Administrator for the purpose of the Project, as
such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, as modified
and   made   applicable  to   such   agreement,   all  agreements
supplemental to the Special Fund Credit Agreement and all
schedules to the Special Fund Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred fifty-seven million four hundred thousand dollars
($157,400,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to three hundred ninety-two thousand five hundred
nineteen dollars ($392,519).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month period com-
mencing on each date specified in Section 2.08 of


﻿-4-
this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B) here-
under shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93% per
annum.
(iii)  "Qualified  Borrowings"   means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a caltndar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement,
the Borrower shall cause Madhya Pradesh to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
of Madhya Pradesh therein set forth, shall take or cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
Madhya Pradesh to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to Madhya Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower's


﻿-5-
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States
of India.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the Creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Bor-
rower.


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall carry out a study on the
metering practices in a number of selected States of India and
shall exchange views with the Administrator and the Bank on the
recommendations arising from said study.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the events set forth in Section 4.01 of the
Special Fund Credit Agreement are specified.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the events set forth in Section 4.02 of the
Special Fund Credit Agreement are specified.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with-
in the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Special Fund Credit Agreement, except for the effectiveness of
this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date,            c> 4      1985, is hereby
specified for the purposes of 6'ction 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.03. If the Special Fund Credit Agreement termi-
nates prior to the termination of this Agreement, the provisions
of the Special Fund Credit Agreement referred to in this Agree-
ment shall continue in full force and effect between the Borrower
and the Bank.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs, in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Categorj            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Works:
(a) water              25,000,000          60%
conductor
system
(b) power house,        8,000,000          60%
access roads,
site buildings,
staff quarters
and site uti-
lities
(2) Goods                  110,000,000          100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local ex-
penditures (ex-
factory cost) and
50% of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Consultants'             2,000,000          100%
services and
training
(4) Fee                        392,519          Amount due under
Section 2.05 (a)
of this Agreement
(5) Utallocated             12,007,481
TOTAL            157,400,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds


﻿- 11 -
of the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to provide additional
power generation capacity in Madhya Pradesh and thereby in the
Western Region of India and to strengthen the Board's data
processing facilities. The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   The construction of a power house housing four 125 MW
turbo generating sets and associated electrical and
mechanical equipment.
Part B:   The constuction of a combined gravity and rock-fill
dam, about 90 m high and 1,650 m long, in the Indravati
River.
Part C:   The construction of a water conductor system composed
of a head race tunnel of about 12 m in diameter and
3,000 m long, a surge tank, and four pressure shafts
about 400 m long and 6 m diameter.
Part D:   The construction of a tailrace open channel about 5 km
long.
Part E:   The acquisition and erection of step-up transformers
(11/220 kV), switchyard equipment, and about 5 km of
220 kV double circuit transmission line to connect
the Project to the nearby existing Barsoor substation.
Part F:   The carrying out of a plant rehabilitation program in
Madhya Pradesh, through repairs to and upgrading of
identified thermal units.
Part G:   The construction of roads, bridge, residential quarters
and buildings, and provision of site services and
facilities.
Part H:   The upgrading, expansion and modernization      of  the
Madhya Pradesh State Electricity Board's data process-
ing facilities, including development of software and
purchase of necessary computer equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1991.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                       (Expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1989
through   September 15, 2003               5,245,000
On March 15, 2004                                5,295,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The inturest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                           1.00
maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of '      , 198
FOR SECRETARY


