0   v       'CREDIT NUMBER     1613 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1985


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1985, between
INDIA, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by Resolution No. IDA 82-6, adopted on October 26,
1982, of the Executive Directors of the Association, there has
been established by the Association a Special Fund constituted
by the funds which shall be contributed by certain members of
the Association and administered by the Association, acting as
Administrator of such Special Fund, for the purpose of, and in
accordance with, the provisions of said Resolution;
(C) the Borrower has requested of the Administrator assis-
tance from the resources of the Special Fund in the financing of
the Project, and the Administrator has determined that such
assis.zance would be in accordance with the provisions of the
Resolution referred to above;
(D) by the Special Fund Credit Agreement between the Bor-
rower and the Association acting as Administrator of the Special
Fund dated March 1, 1985, the Administrator has agreed to make
-vailable to the Borrower a Special Fund Credit (hereinafter
called the Special Fund Credit) in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to one hundred twenty-two million Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 122,000,000) to assist in the financing of such Pro-
ject, on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
(E) the Borrower has also requested International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the Bank)
to provide additional assistance towards the financing of the
Project and by an agreement dated March 1, 1985 between the
Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement)
the Bank has agreed to provide such assistance in an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to one hundred fifty-seven million
four hundred thousand dollars ($157,400,000) (hereinafter called
the Bank Loan);
(F) the Project will be carried out by the State of Madhya
Pradesh through the Madhya Pradesh State Electricity Board with


﻿-2-
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the State of Madhya Pradesh the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Development Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth
and in the Project Agreement dated March 1, 1985 between the
Administrator, the Bank and the State of Madhya Pradesh;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the international Development Association,
dated June 30, 1980, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association being herein-
after called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement, and in
the Special Fund Credit Agreement and the General Conditions made
applicable to the Special Fund Credit Agreement have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to twelve million four hundred thousand  Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 12,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for


﻿-3-
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Pro-
ject Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1994, and ending
March 15, 2034, each installment to and including the installment


﻿-4-
payable on March 15, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per rent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The Currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall cause Madhya Pradesh to perform in accor-
dance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obli-
gations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Madhya
Pradesh to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Madhya Pradesh in accordance with -the Borrower's
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States
of India.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Special Fund Credit shall
have been suspended in whole or in part.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice


﻿-5-
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower
and Madhya Pradesh.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Special Fund Credit Agreement have been fulfilled; and
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date    EC4-'LA      c  d/7*, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.03. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on the date on which the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date thirty   years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
*    A date approximately 90 days after the date of signature
of this Agreement will be inserted here.


﻿-6-
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Associa..ion:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works for          12,400,000        40%
tailrace
channel
TOTAL          12,400,000
2.   The disbursement percentage has been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, -.f the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the


﻿-8-
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation' s reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to provide additional
power generation capacity in Madhya Pradesh and thereby in the
Western Region of India, and to strengthen the Board's data pro-
cessing facilities. The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   The construction of a power house housing four 125 MW
turbo generating sets and associated electrical and
mechanical equipment.
Part B:   The construction of a combined gravity and rock-fill
dam, about 90 m high and about 1,650 m long, in the
Indravati River.
Part C:   The construction of a water conductor system composed
of a head race turnel of about 12 m in diameter and
3,000 m long, a surge tank, and four pressure shafts
about 400 m long and 6 m diameter.
Part D:   The construction of a tailrace open channel about 5 km
long.
Part E:   The acquisition and erection of step-up transformers
(11/220 kV), switchyard equipment, and about 5 km of
220 kV double circuit transmission line to connect the
Project, to the nearby existing Barsoor substation.
Part F:   The carrying out of a plant rehabilitation program in
Madhya Pradesh through repairs to and upgrading of
identified thermal units.
Part G:   The construction of roads, bridge, residential quarters
and buildings, and provision of site services and
facilities.
Part H:   The upgrading, expansion and modernization      of  the
Madhya Pradesh State Electricity Board's data process-
ing facilities, including development of software and
purchase of necessary computer equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1991.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


