RESTRICTED
FILE8     COPY                 Report No P-984
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTBENATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THEI
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
FOR A
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
August 25, 1971



DITERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMME'TDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
FIOR A TELECOMMWNICATIONS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Iraq for the equivalent of US $27.5 million, to
help finance the foreign exchange costs of the Project which forms part
of Iraq's five-year Program for the expansion and improvement of the
national telecommunications system. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including 5-1/2 years of grace, with interest at 7-1/4 percent
per annum.
PART I - INTRODUCTION
2.        Iraq received its first Bank loan of $12.8 million ($6.3 mil-
lion, net of cancellation) for a flood control project in 1950 and its
second one for $23 million ($19.0 million, net of cancellation) for a
Road Project in 1966. To date therefore, the total net Bank lending has
aggregated $25.3 million. The 1966 Road Project encountered some initial
delays, because improvements in the organization of maintenance opera-
tions and in maintenance workshops were not undertaken soon enough. After
prolonged discussions, however, agreement was reached in July 1969, on
measures required to achieve these improvements. By this time, except
for one road section, most of the construction work had been satisfac-
torily completed at costs substantially lower than original estimates.
In the circumstances, and with Government's agreement, $4 million was
cancelled from the loan and at the same time in October 1969, an additional
road section and a bridge wjith approach roads were added to the project.
The Road Project is now progressing satisfactorily and the currently un-
disbursed amount of US $5.0 million is expected to be fully utilized at
the completion of the project by the end of 1972.
3.        After the first loan to Iraq was made in 1950, the Bank did
not receive further requests for assistance, since the Government felt
that its oil revenues provided the country with sufficient foreign
exchange to carry out its public investment program without recourse
to external borrowing. In the early 1960's, however, a considerable
increase in public expenditure led the Government once again to seek
foreign financing. In early 1963, it requested renewied Bank financing,
and this resulted in the 1966 road loan. Internal political instability



- 2 -
that followed thereafter, together with the Governxaent's reluctance to
approach western sources for assistance, placed obstacles in the path of
closer relations betwieen Iraq and the Bank, but then began to evolve
more favorably after the present regime assumed power in July 1968.
4.        A resumption of Bank lending to Iraq seems justified, particu-
larly in view of the country's overall need to make good gradually the
serious shortfalls in infrastructure which have accumulated over recent
years. In its program for assisting Iraq, the Bank would propose to
give priority to agriculture, education, transportation and public
utilities. The project proposals which are at an advanced stage of
preparation are the Lower Khalis irrigation and drainage, grain storage
and education proposals. Assistance has been requested in preparing a
second roads project and an integrated agricultural development project
in NIorthern Iraq.
5.        IFC has made no investments in Iraq.
PART II - THE ECONOMY
6.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Iraq" (EMA-35) dated August 20, 1971 is being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors. A Basic Data sheet is attached as Annex II.
7.        The past decade in Iraq has been marked by political instability.
The revolution of 1958 which created the Republic, has substantially
changed the country's social and economic structure. It progressively
deprived the former feudal and entrepreneurial classes of the basis of
their political and economic influence, while at the same time, a socialist-
oriented government gradually assumed control of larger commercial and
industrial enterprises. This gradual but fundamental transition from one
economic system to another, together with frequent changes of government
and key officials in economic positions, has not allowed Iraq to grow as
fast as its economic potential would justify and has affected the adminis-
trative efficiency for long periods. The present Government, however, has
now been in power for three years and has gradually been consolidating
its position. Several recent measures taken by it seem indicative of its
sense of growing confidence. It recently took steps to ease some of the
past political controls, modify the highly centralized control over
industry and seelc a greater role for private enterprise. It effected a
settlement with Kurdish insurgents in March 1970, which made it possible
to focus attention more closely on development problems.
8.        Iraq has sought to develop its economy since the late fifties
through a series of development plans. The most recent one (1965-69)
fell far short of its objectives. The actual annual growth rate fell



- 3 -
significantly short of the planned target of 8 percent, and public invest-
ment over the period was 55 percent short of that projected in the Plan.
The virtual cessation of investment by foreign oil companies, the low
rate of public investment and savings, inadequate planning and adminis-
tration, were major causes underlying this unsatisfactory performance.
9.        Prospects for the seventies however appear to be more
encouraging. The present Government expects to make a stronger public
sector contribution to economic development than in the past. The
National Development Plan (1970-74), which it has formulated, focuses
on strengthening agriculture, developing human resources and building
up import substitution and extractive industries. The Plan, initiated
in April 1970, foresees an average annual growth rate of 6.8 percent in
GDP over the five-year period 1970-74, with agriculture expanding at an
average annual rate of 7 percent and industry at 12 percent. The Plan
projects a total investment of $3 billion, to be financed mostly from
oil revenues and domestic savings, together with modest external assistance.
10.       Oil continues to be the key sector in the Iraqi economy
accounting for nearly 40 percent of the GNP, 90 percent of exports and
over 50 percent of Government revenues. WJith the agreement reached
recently with the foreign oil companies in Tehran, followed by that
on oil exported from Mediterranean ports, oil revenues are expected almost
to double.
11.       But the financing requirements of the current Plan are heavy.
Even with improved oil revenue prospects, the country will need to rely
on some external aid to achieve the planned target of a 6.8 percent
growth rate. At present, there is only a tenuous linkage of macro-
economic aggregates with the projects with which those aggregates are
to be achieved. The scope for the success of the Plan will significantly
depend on better project preparation, effective implementation machinery
and closer coordination of Plan requirements with fiscal and monetary
policies.
12.       The Bank has in recent years been approached by some of Iraq's
creditors with regard to outstanding claims of foreign contractors for
works or services contracted or performed under preceding regimes and
has been in contact with the Government from time to time, on this matter.
The Government has recently been dealing with such claims on a government-
to-government basis, after a period during which appeals to the Iraqi
courts had been allowed in case the sums offered by the Government on
the basis of the review of the cases by a governmental committee were
considered unsatisfactory by the contractors. It would seem from the
recent example of the settlement of the French claims and current



- 4 -
discussions of British claims, both pursued through diplomatic channels
of the countries of the contractors concerned, that Government intends
and is gradually moving towards the overall settlement of such claims.
13.       In the last few years, Iraq's reliance on external financing
for public investment has been very modest. The total amount of external
public debt stood approximately at $290 million at the end of 1970, most
of it in the form of long-term loans with relatively low interest. As
a result, the debt service ratio is still rather low (slightly over
2 percent in 1970). In the absence of assistance from western sources,
Iraq has been increasingly relying on suppliers' credits and bilateral
assistance from East European countries. In March 1971, for instance,
it obtained a 200 million rouble credit from the USSR, under a frame
agreement, to be repaid by oil exports on a barter basis. The credit
is proposed to be utilized primarily for exploiting oil and mineral
resources as well as for industrial development. This pattern of
financing in these fields can be expected to continue. Finance for the
requirements of agricultural development, training of human resources
and expansion of basic infrastructure, on the other hand, is likely to
be sought from western and international sources such as the Bank and
the UNDP. Iraq has the capacity to service substantial additional
external debt, and in view of its need for some external assistance for
its development objectives, I consider it eligible for further assistance
from the Bank,
PART III - THE PROJECT
Sector Background
14.       Since 1945, the development of telecommunications has been
severely limited both qualitatively and quantitatively, and the last
ten years have been years of virtual stagnation. Equipment is anti-
quated, both for national and international service. Nearly half of
the automatic exchanges which are of the step-by-step type are between
20 to 33 years old. Local cable networks are largely of the same age
and in very poor shape. Long distance telephone service in Iraq is
provided by carrier systems on open wire routes, wvhich permit limited
capacity and reliability. The telegraph services in Iraq are mainly
operated on Morse, with very few manually operated gentex switch
boards. The telex system is also manually operated with only
50 subscribers, essentially airlines, news agencies and embassies.
The international service is operated by high frequency radio and is
subject to shortcomings of this type of operation.
15.       Progress in this sector was hampered in the past years by
repeated inadequate budgetary allocations and changes in PT&T leader-
ship. Long waiting lists for telephone connections, and abnormal
delays in long-distance national and international services, are clear



- 5 -
symptons that this important sector lags behind the demand for its
services and the needs of a country, over 50 percent of whose GNP is
contributed by oil, industry and commerce.
16.       Recognizing these shortcomings, as a part of the National
Development Plan (1970-74), the Government formulated a five-year
Program to improve and expand the national telecommunication system.
It aims at quantitative and qualitative improvements in local service
and at partly satisfying the demand for subscriber connections by the
installation of about 100,000 lines of local exchange equipment and
facilities. It also aims at satisfying in full the traffic demand fore-
cast for existing subscribers and new connections for long distance
telephone, telegraph and telex facilities and for international
services.
Project Description
17.       The proposed Project consists of most of the principal ele-
ments of the Government's above-mentioned five-year telecommunication
expansion/improvement Program. The main fea%vures of the Project and
the loan are summarized in Annex III, and the Appraisal Report
(PU-65a) is also attached. Briefly, the Project includes the provision
of (i) a microwave system colinecting main towns in Iraq with Baghdad,
together with multiplexing equipment for about 1,500 channels and spurs
for about six TV stations and UHF links to important urban centres in
the northeast, (ii) long-distance exchange facilities with capacity
for direct subscriber trunk dialling for about 5,000 lines,
(iii) national and international telex and gentex services with about
700 lines, (iv) part of the local cable network, drop wires, branich
exchanges and other subscriber apparatus, (v) satellite ground station
and associated facilities, and (vi) consultant services. Besides
these Project comonents, the Program includes the installation of
about 100,000 lines of automatic local exchange equipment, together
with the balance of the local and junction cable network
and associated facilities, buildings and other facilities required
for the expansion Program, some international links with neighboring
countries and training facilities for PT&T's technical personnel.
18.       The Project is estimated to cost about $39.7 million. The
proposed loan of $27.5 million will cover its estimated foreign exchange
component. The Program is estimated to cost about $61.4 million. The
financing of the items in the Program not included in the Project, as
also the local cost expenditure of about $12.2 million relating to the
Project, will be provided by the Government.



- 6 -
19.       Procurement of goods financed by the loan would be on the basis
of international competitive bidding. Disbursements would be made for
the full foreign exchange cost of the equipment imported and services
provided. No disbursements would be made for expenditures made before
signing of the proposed loan.
Project Implementation
20.       The Project will be implemented by Iraq through its Posts,
Telegraphs and Telephones Administration (PT&T), which is responsible
for all postal and telecommunication services in Iraq. Although statu-
torily, the PT&T is run by a Board of Directors nominated by the
Government, with the Director General of PT&T as Chairman, in effect,
PT&T operates as a department of the Government. Financially, it is
also not a fully independent body, and under Iraqi laws, the capital
for new telecommunication facilities is to be provided by the Govern-
ment. In these circumstances, the proposed loan is being made directly
to the Government, although the implementation of the Project and
its ultimate operations will be carried out by PT&T.
21.       The Government however is cognizant of the need to operate
telecommunication services with qualified and experienced personnel on
sound management principles. Towards that objective, it has already
engaged management consultants who are reviewing the administrative and
financial procedures of PT&T, to enable the Government to consider the
introduction of appropriate improvements. The Government also has been
studying, as a long-term proposition, the feasibility of forming
separate departments for telecommunications and postal operations.
The same consulting firm is reviewing this aspect and has tentatively
proposed separation of postal and telecommunication accounts as the
first step towards eventual separation of these two functions.
Accounts and financial statements relating to telecommunications
operations are to be provided from April 1, 1975. Recognizing the need
for technical consultants to draw up bidding documents and evaluate
them, the Government has also engaged suitable consulting firms for
the microwave system and intends employing consultants for the satellite
ground station. These services will be financed from the proceeds of
the proposed Bank loan. The Gcvernment is further arranging financial
assistance from the UNDP, for an expansion of the existing training
facilities for training engineers and technicians who can operate the
modern and rather sophisticated telecommunications system which will
be installed through the current expansion.
Financial Aspects and Rate of Return
22.       Under the Iraqi system, all developmental or expansion projects,
including the telecommunication expansion Program, have to be sepecifically
included in and financed from the National Development Plan. Financing



therefor is provided out of Plan funds, which are replenished with
part of the oil revenues and a share of the profits of the various
departments and entities of the Government as laid down in the laws
appropriate to each case. In the case of PT&T, the amounts to be
appropriated annually to the Treasury and to Plan funds out of
profits are prescribed in various laws. While this pattern of
financing differs from conventional practice, the Government does
recognize that PT&T should operate on a commercial basis as prescribed
in PT&T Law No. 81 of 1963, and has agreed that steps will be taken
to ensure that from April 1, 1977, a reasonable return on the national
investment in telecommunications will be obtained. For this purpose
the Loan Agreement provides that annual revenues should cover
operating expenses, maintenance and depreciation, interest and repay-
ment on long-term borrowing to the extent not covered by depreciation,
plus a reasonable surplus. This surplus accrues to the funds of the
National Development Plan, to be used for Plan investments.
23.       The Program, including the Project is considered to be
technically sound and economically justified. It is not practicable
to compute a rate of return for the project alone; the internal
financial rate of return on the whole Program is estimated to be about
14 percent.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUIMNTS AMD AUTHORITY
24.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of
Iraq, the Report of the Comrittee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, the draft Supplementary Letter on
Procurement and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed loan are
being distiributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft
loan documents on the whole follow the pattern of documents for similar
projects, except for the rate of return covenant which has been for-
mulated to meet the special circumstances of the Iraqi planning system,
including the financing arrangements which it provides for projects
included in the country's Plan.
25.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART V - RECOMbiENDATION
26.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
August 25, 1971
WTashington, D.C.



Annex I
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(as of July 31, 1971)
Amount (US$ million)
Loan No.     Year     Borrower        Purpose          Bank   Undisbursed
26-IQ       1950       Iraq      Flood Control       6.3
457-IQ       1966       Iraq       Roads             19.;O       5.0
Total,net of cancellations               25.3
of which has been repaid to
the Bank and others                 7.3
Total now outstanding                    18.0
Amount sold                 0.3
of which has been repaid  0.1           0.2
Total now held by Bank                   17.8
Total undisbursed              5.0        5.0



Annex II
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
BASIC DATA
Area                                                435,000 km
168,000 square miles
Population                                          9.1 million (1969)
Rate of Growth                                    3.3%o per annum
Density per km2                                   21 (54 per square mile)
Gross National Product (1969)                       ID 962 million
Rate of Growth 1966-1969 (current prices)         6.5%/ per annum
Rate of Growth 1969      (current prices)         7%0
Per capita GNP 1969                               ID 106 (US $296)
Gross Domestic Product at Factor Cost (1969)        ID 1039 million
of which, in per cent:
Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing               19.0
Mining and Quarrying                            32.6
Industry                                        9.0
Distribution, Transportation and Communication  22.0
Public Administration and Defence               12.4
Other                                            5.0
Percent of GNP at Market Prices (1969)
Gross Investment                                  16.5
Gross National Savings                            20.6
Private Consumption                               53.1
Money and Credit                     December 1970        Annual Rate of
(TDirullion)       Increase, 1966-70
Money Supply                           215.6                8.5%
Claims on Government                   118.8                9.2%
Claims on Private Sector                87.2                6.9%
Rate of Increase in                     1968-69             1966-69
Consumer price index                     9.0Y/J       3.3% per annum
Government Finance (ID million)         1968-69             1969-70
(Provisional)          (Estimate)
Current Expenditure                    247.5              286.5
Current Revenue                        293.3              335.1
Surplus                                 45.8               48.6
Development Expenditure                 65.7               94.9



Annex II
Page 2 of 2
External Public Debt (US $ million - preliminary estimate)
Total Debt Outstanding: December 31, 1970                290
Net of Undisbursed                                       277
Total Annual Debt Service                                 25
Debt Service Ratio                              approx. 2.2% of exports
of goods and services
Balance of Payments (ID million)           1968            1969
Exports of Goods and Services           224.1           211.0
Imports of Goods and Services           157.0           158.6
Balance on Goods and Services            67.1            52.4
Commodity Concentration of Exports                         1969
% of Total Exports
Oil                                                      87.6
Date                                                      3 5
Livestock Products                                        1.5
Net Foreign Exchange Reserves (December 1970)         US $312 million
(equivalent 8 months imports)
IMF Position (US $ million) (March 31, 1971)
Quota                                                     109
Net Drawings/Fund Sales                                    -
August 25, 1971



Annex III
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     Republic of Iraq.
Amount:                       US $27.5 million equivalent.  The proposed
loan would fully cover the project's
estimated foreign exchange component.
Tenns and Conditions:         Payable in 20 years, with 5-1/2 years
grace, at 7-1/h% interest per annum.
Project:                      Project forms part of the Borrower's five-
year Program for the expansion and
improvement of telecommunication facili-
ties, expected to be completed by
March 31, 1976, and includes:
(i)     Microwave system connecting main
town with Baghdad, together with
multiplexing equipment for about
1,500 channels, and interconnecting
spurs for 6 TV stations, UHF links
to urban centers in Northeast
Iraq;
(ii)    Part of the local exchange cable
network for subscriber distribution
and subscriber apparatus;
(iii)   Long distance direct subscriber
trunk dialling facilities for about
5,000 lines;
(iv)    National and international telex and
gentex services with facilities for
700 lines;
(v)     Satellite ground station, interna-
tional switching center and related
facilities; and
(vi)    Consultant services.



Annex III
Page 2 of 3
(US $ millions)
Cost of Proje-,t    Component                 Local    Foreign      Total
1. Long distance scheme
consisting of:
(a) Microwave system       1.4      11.4       12.8
(b) Long distance
exchange equipment
accessories                1.2       4.2         5.4
2. Local cable network
subscriber apparatus,
etc.                       8.0       5.0        13.0
3. National and inter-
national telegraph/telex
facilities                 0.3       1.6        1.9
4. Satellite ground
station facilities         0.5       3.3        3.8
5. Consultant services      -        0.4         0.4
6. Contingencies           0.8       1.6         2.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST        12.2      27.5       39.7
(US $ millions)
Financing:                                     Local    Foreign     Total
IBRD Loan                    -      27.5        27.5
Government contribution   12.2        -        12.2
TOTAL            12.2      27.5       39.7
Procurement
Arrangements:       Bank financed items will be procured, following
international competitive bidding.



Annex III
Page 3 of 3
Estimated                                 (US $ millions)
Disbursements:               1971   1972    1973   1974   1975    1976
0.1    8.0     8.2    7.3    3.3     o.6
Management
Consultants:                 Arab Research and Administrative Center, U.A.R.
Microwave
Consultants:                 Microwave Services, Inc., U.S.A.
Satellite Ground
Station Consultants:         Consultant arrangement being finalized with
Comsat, U.S.A.
Internal Financial
Rate of Return:              1h%
Appraisal Report:            Report No. PU-65a  dated August   , 1971.
August 25, 1971



