Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21931
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25280)
ON A CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 60.0 MILLION (US$138.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO INDIA
FOR THE NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
04/26/2001
HEALTH, NUTRITION AND POPULATION SECTOR
SOUTH ASIA REGION
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 1, 2001)
Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs.)
Rs. 46.62 = US$ 1.00
US$0.0215 = Rs. 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Danida    -      Danish International Development Agency
GHS       -      General Health Services
GOI       -      Government of India
IDA       -      International Development Association
IEC       -      Information, Education and Communication
MB        -      Multi-Bacillary
MDT       -      Multidrug Therapy
M. leprae  -     Mycobacterium leprae
MLEC      -      Modified Leprosy Elimination Campaign
MMDT    -        Modified Multidrug Therapy
MOHFW   -        Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
MTR       -      Mid-term Review
NGO       -      Non-Governmental Organization
NLEP      -      National Leprosy Eradication Program
PB        -      Pauci-Bacillary
PHC       -      Primary Health Care
SAPEL    -       Special Action Projects for Elimination of Leprosy
UT        -      Union Territory
WHO       -      World Health Organization
Vice President:   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:   Edwin Lim
Sector Director:   Richard Skolnik
Team Leader/Task Manager:   Peter Heywood/Laura Kiang



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    8
6. Sustainability                                                                       10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      13
9. Partner Comments                                                                     14
10. Additional Information                                                              18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






DEFINITIONS
Grade II         Visible deformity or damage present on hands and feet. Severe visual
impairment (vision worse than 6/60; inability to count fingers at six meters),
lagophthalmos, iridocyclitis and comeal opacities.
Leprosy          Also called Hansen's disease (Hansen's bacillus was discovered by the
Norwegian physician G. Armnauer Hansen in 1874). Chronic slow developing
bacterial disease of man caused by Mycobactarium leprae affecting mainly
peripheral nerves and skin. The suffering of leprosy is caused by damage to
the peripheral nerves, which leads to sensory loss, paralysis and loss of
function of the hands, feet and eyes. It is feared because of its potential for
crippling and disfigurement. The resulting deformities are the main cause of
the social stigma attached to the disease.
Multibacillary   Leprosy case showing a high density of bacilli on slit-skin smear examination.
Leprosy          The result of this microscopic examination is recorded as the bacterial index.
Multibacillary leprosy is associated with the progressive and disseminated
form of disease called lepromatous leprosy.
Paucibacillary   Leprosy case showing only a few or no bacilli on slit skin smear examination.
Leprosy          Paucibacillary leprosy is associated with tuberculoid leprosy, which is a
milder form of the disease.
Prevalence Rate   Number of cases of a disease or condition at a given point in time as a
proportion of the total population.






Project ID: P010424                                        Project Name: NATIONAL LEPROSY
ELIMINATION PROJECT
Team Leader: Peter F. Heywood                              TL Unit: SASHP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: April 26, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT L/C/TF Number: IDA-25280
Country/Department: INDIA                                                 Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: HS - Specific Diseases, including Malaria, TB,
Others
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/24/1992                               Effective: 03/22/1994         03/22/1994
Appraisal:  01/07/1993                                MTR: 05/21/1997            05/21/1997
Approval:  06/29/1993                               Closing: 03/31/2000          09/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOI/MOHFW
Other Partners: DANIDA and WHO
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                            Joseph D. Wood
Country Manager:     Edwin Lim                                  Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager:      Richard Lee Skolnik                        Richard Lee Skolnik
Team Leader at ICR:   Peter F. Heywood                          Salim Habayeb
ICR Primary Author:   Laura M. Kiang
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
*           Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objective of the project was to eliminate leprosy as a public health problem in India by
the year 2000 by reducing the prevalence from 24 per 10,000 to I per 10,000 nationwide. This
would be accomplished by treating 2.2 million people with leprosy and 1.8 million new cases,
reducing the leprosy prevalence to 100,000 cases nationwide. The second objective of the project
was to reduce the impact of leprosy disability.
India is one of the few countries where leprosy is a major public health problem, accounting for
two thirds of the global leprosy load. In the early 1990s, it was estimated that 2.2 million people
had leprosy in India, with 300,000 new cases arising annually, bringing the projected total disease
burden to about 4 million people by the turn of the century. The elimination of leprosy was one
of several priority disease control interventions identified by the Government of India (GOI) in the
health sector at that time.
The importance of helping India deal with leprosy was heightened by the fact that the disease
caused deformities and by the extreme social stigma attached to affected people. Studies on
leprosy showed that treating leprosy and related disabilities had a high social rate of return and
should be a high priority for investment in public health. Moreover, the Bank's publication, The
Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries: An Overview, suggested that the cost
involved in intervention strategies for leprosy is very cost effective. IDA's assistance would allow
GOI to accelerate the elimination of leprosy.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The mid-term review (MTR) concluded that the principal objective of the project to eliminate
leprosy as a public health problem by the turn of the century remained valid and achievable.
Based on a set of technical, operational and performance criteria, it was assessed that the project
has made good progress at the mid-term. However, in light of results achieved to that time, it
was clear that the original target of reducing prevalence for the project life from 24 per 10,000 to
I per 10,000 population was somewhat over-optimistic. Therefore, the objective of reducing
prevalence was revised from 1 per 10,000 to 3-4 per 10,000. In addition, the secondary objective
concerning the impact of disability was dropped by the GOI because of the need to focus project
inputs on the elimination itself, and because of the comparative advantage of the voluntary and
private sector in this field.
3.3 Original Components:
Expansion of Multidrug Therapy (MDT) through a Vertical Structure (US$80.9 million) by:
(a) targeting about 66 high endemic areas; (b) providing outreach services to the community and
service circuits designed with the participation of the beneficiary population; and (c) strengthening
current control operations in 135 districts with high prevalence.
- 2 -



Integration of Multidrug Therapy into the Primary Health Care System (US$22.3 million)
by: (a) providing MDT through the existing primary health care system in about 77 moderately
endemic districts and 20 pockets of infection; and (b) providing a limited amount of additional
staff on a fixed-term basis for the duration of the project.
Disability Care and Prevention (US$7.9 million) by: (a) reducing the occurrence of
impairments (first-level prevention); (b) limiting or reversing disability caused by impairmnents
(second-level prevention); and (c) preventing disabilities from developing into handicaps
(third-level prevention).
Promoting Public Awareness and Community Participation (US$12.4 million) by: (a)
conducting information, education and communication (IEC) activities through village awareness
camps, non-formal methods of education, and mass media; and (b) promoting community
participation which ultimately reduces the dependence on a limited number of outreach health
service providers and enhances self-reliance and local responsibility.
Enhancing Skills and Institutional Development (US$12.6 million) by: (a) training of various
levels of National Leprosy Eradication Program (NLEP) staff in highly endemic districts in the
first two years of implementation, and short-termn training to 160,000 persons, and primary health
care staff in intermediate-endemicity districts; (b) strengthening the Central Coordination Cell; and
(c) supporting training and research institutes in Raipur, Chengalput, Agra, Aska and Gouripur.
3.4 Revised Components:
There was no change in the original components. However, on the basis of the global experience
facilitated by WHO's Action Program for the Elimination of Leprosy, a plan of action on Leprosy
Elimination Campaigns in priority areas was developed in 1995. As a result of the mid-terrn
review, and within the broad original components, GOI requested that the Bank and WHO assist
in expanding the implementation of these new enhanced interventions, which included (a)
Campaign Approach for Leprosy Elimination; and (b) Special Action Projects for Elimination of
Leprosy (SAPEL).
At the MTR, the secondary objective concerning disability was dropped because of the need to
focus project inputs on the elimination itself and also because of the increasingly evident
comparative advantage of the voluntary and private sectors in this field. However, for the
remainder of the project GOI continued to support activities for prevention of disabilities through
NGOs.
Due to the availability of funds for drug procurement through the World Health Organization
(WHO) for MDT, and at the Government's request, the original IDA credit was reduced from
SDR 60.0 million (US$85.0 million equivalent) to SDR 53.6 million (US$76.3 million equivalent).
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project objectives were consistent with the Bank and IDA strategy at the time, which
-3 -



emphasized human resource development and reduction of poverty. Leprosy was a significant
health problem in India and leprosy control showed significant direct and indirect social and
economic returns. Involvement in leprosy elimination met the IDA strategic objective of assisting
India in controlling major public health problems. The project design was built upon considerable
international and local experience with leprosy at the time. The objectives were to be achieved
through the combined efforts of the GOI, WHO, and other developments partners in leprosy
control in India, especially Danida and SIDA, who were in general agreement with the
Government's control strategy.
However, it was found to be that the prevalence of leprosy was greater than projected at the time
of project design. As a result, the elimination target was considered ambitious and could not be
easily met during the life of the project. At the MTR, the origional target of reducing prevalence
for the project life was revised from 1 per 10,000 population to 3-4 per 10,000.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall achievement of the project objectives was satisfactory. The project, which supported
the national program through a vertical structure in high endemic areas and an integrated structure
in low endemic areas, has achieved substantial progress towards eliminating leprosy as a public
health problem. The project made a number of contributions: (i) the aggregate national
prevalence rate declined from 24 per 10,000 to a reported prevalence of 5 per 10,000; (ii) out of
490 districts, 137 districts attained a prevalence rate of less then 1 per 10,000; (iii) 9 states/Union
Territories (UTs) achieved elimination levels; (iv) none of the original 135 districts" remained
highly endemic; (v) Multi-drug Therapy (MDT) is widely available through government and
NGO health centers and hospitals; (vi) over 99% of all new cases received MDT and about 4.4
million patients were treated and cured; (vii) disability among new cases declined from 8 percent
in 1993 to 3.12 percent in 2000; and (viii) the registered case load at the national level was
reduced from 1.2 million to 0.5 million cases.
The current prevalence rate at the state level ranges from 15 per 10,000 population in the state of
Bihar to less than 1 per 10,000 population in nine states (Nagaland, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal
Pradesh, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Tripura, Sikkim and Jammu and Kashmir). The leprosy disease
burden is concentrated mainly in five states (Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Uttar Pradesh, and
West Bengal), which represent 70% of registered cases and new cases detected in India.
11
The original 135 districts became 152 districts due to the creation of new districts over the life of the project.
2I
High endemic: Prevalence rate is above 50/10,000; Moderate endemic: Prevalence rated is 20-49/10,000; and
Low endemic prevalence rate is <20/10,000. This classification has now been replaced by eliminated (prevalence
rate <1/10,000) or not eliminated (prevalence rate >1/10,000).
-4 -



4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Expansion of Multidrug Therapy (MDT) Through a Vertical Structure
Overall, this component contributed significantly to the achievement of project objectives. After
initial slow progress with the appointment of different categories of staff, over 3,062 contracted
workers were recruited and trained during project implementation. These included health
workers, non-medical supervisors, laboratory technicians, physiotherapists, health educators and
medical officers. Guidelines for service delivery were updated and disseminated to all health
personnel. The MDT delivery has been enhanced through the vertical program and MDT
coverage of registered cases increased from 62% to almost universal availability. All new patients
have access to MDT through government and NGO health facilities in all states and UTs.
However, the supervision of the program activities was inadequate in some of the states,
particularly in moderate and low endemic districts. In addition, the vertical structure used to
deliver services was found to be of limited value in case detection; much of the additional case
detection during the project was due to the Modified Leprosy Elimination Campaigns (MLECs).
Following the midterm review, special attention was given to MDT service delivery management.
MDT became almost universally available, especially in the last year of the project. The
managerial capabilities of middle-level managers responsible for motivating, supporting and
monitoring the leprosy program implementation staff at the district level were strengthened
through workshops using a module developed by WHO.
At the end of the project, and as stated above, none of the original 135 districts remained highly
endemic. Of these, 97.4% fall into low endemic category and 2.6% are in the moderately endemic
category. However, elimination levels (<I per 10,000) could be attained in only four of 152
highly endemic districts.
4.2.2 Integration of Multidrug Therapy into the Primary Health Care System
Whereas-achievements in delivery of MDT services have been impressive, the proportion of health
facilities offering MDT services varied widely from one state to another. In many states, leprosy
services are already being accessed through general health services. An impact evaluation of the
Integration of Leprosy Services with Primary Health Services (The Tamil Nadu Case Study)
suggested that voluntary reporting was significantly higher in the post-integration period (25% of
cases) as compared to the pre-integration period (14% of cases).
As a result of the midterm review, and as discussed in para. 3.4, case detection activities were
intensified. The GOI decided to undertake Modified Leprosy Elimination Campaigns (MLECs) in
all the states after the successful pilot in the state of Tamil Nadu. The objectives were to: (i)
create mass awareness about the facts of leprosy and availability of free MDT treatment; (ii) give
orientation training on leprosy to all the General Health Care staff, village level workers and
volunteers; and (iii) make use of awareness and training for detecting hidden or suspected cases
within a short and specified period of six to seven days.
- 5 -



The MLEC was aimed at peripheral capacity building and reaching hidden patients in the original
22 states/UTs, geographically covering about 90% of the population of India during 1997 and
1998. The strategy of the campaigns focused on promoting public awareness, involving the
community, the general health services and other sectors, including local bodies, panchayat
leaders, school teachers, local volunteers, and workers of the Integrated Child Developments
Services. The campaigns involved 860,000 personnel including doctors, general health workers
and volunteers with the participation of various other related government departments and NGOs.
State health authorities, in collaboration with other public sectors, were the prime movers in
coordinating campaign activities, mobilizing people, organizing house-to-house diagnostic
searches, and supervising the campaigns which lasted a week, preceded by the orientation training
of the health care staff and a systematic information drive and media blitz promoting
self-reporting.
During project implementation, two rounds of MLECs were conducted in all states/UTs. The
first MLEC yielded about 2.9 million suspected cases of which 0.5 million were confirmed to be
leprosy. The second round of MLEC saw 0.8 million suspected cases, of which 0.2 million were
confirmed to be leprosy. The multibacillary proportion of the newly detected cases was 32
percent.
Although the project envisaged full integration of the leprosy program activities into the general
health services in a phased manner in all the districts including those with high endemic, the
implementation of this component made only modest gains. Due to the lack of a strategic
framework to deal with complex organizational issues related to integration of vertical programs
into the general health services, the integration of leprosy services with the primary health services
remains challenging and will be addressed further by the second project.
4.2.3 Disability Care and Prevention
Activities under this component from the public sector were limited to prevention. Despite its
inclusion of disability care at the beginning of the project, the GOI did not formally pursue the
disability care through the public sector, but rather encouraged and supported NGOs to promote
activities for the prevention of disabilities including reconstructive surgery because of the
comparative advantage of the NGOs in this field and because of the declining need for related
investmnents. However, surgery camps were held in Orissa, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and
Himachal Pradesh during the MLECs. Disability care training and disability surgery camps would
need to be expanded in the future only in areas where needs are significant. Among new cases,
severe grade II disabilities declined from 8 percent in year 1993 to 3 percent in 2000. More
importantly, various forms of disability were averted among millions of patients who were treated
with MDT. Based on the natural history of the disease, it is estimated that at least 0.3 million'
impairments and disability were prevented, or 7 percent of the total recorded patients cured on
3'
WHO has suggested an even higher number exceeding one million individuals.
- 6 -



MDT during the project period. Against the aggregate target of 200 reconstructive surgery
operations in each high endemicity district during the project period, there were 3,200 major
remedial surgeries carried out annually in 50 centers, including NGO centers. Similarly, about
31,000 minor surgeries were being done annually in various NGO facilities.
4.2.4 Promoting Publc Awareness and Community Participation
IEC activities have been successful in raising awareness regarding the cause and treatment of
leprosy. The Leprosy Elimination Campaigns and other LEC activities have intensified community
participation and increased mass awareness about facts of leprosy and availability of free MDT
treatment. Messages on the prevention and reduction of disability have been incorporated in all
IEC activities through community awareness camps, mass media, and extension education to
individuals and small groups. However, without a specific media strategy for IEC, some IEC
activities were undertaken using more traditional methods such as microphone announcements at
fairs, meetings, posters, wall paintings, etc. In an effort to improve IEC effectiveness during the
second round of MLEC in 2000, IEC was undertaken by the British Broadcasting Corporation
(BBC) - World Service Trust with the help of DFID by using mass media approaches, which were
found to have high viewership and impact.
However, an evaluation of the IEC activity under the project concluded that IEC was limited to
publicity for the MLEC campaigns, which were effective in reducing the social stigma associated
with the disease. Other interventions envisaged under the project such as mass media initiatives,
community awareness camps, and interpersonal education by health personnel were found to be
ad hoc in content and occurrence.
4.2.5 Enhancing Skills and Institutional Development
The project has significantly expanded training but the training quality was mixed. Various types
of short-term training were completed in all districts, including high, intermediate endemic
districts, and in endemic pockets. A total of 49,000 doctors and 278,000 health staff have been
provided orientation training which exceeded the original target. Specific learning materials were
developed in 14 regional languages for trainers, doctors, supervisory staff, paramedical staff,
village level volunteers and general health staff. In addition, special Prevention of Disability
(POD) training was conducted in 210 districts. During the MLECs held in 1998 and 2000,
37,000 medical officers and a total of more than one half million village level workers were given
orientation training. However, there has been inadequate training of staff in support areas such as
counseling.
Extensive training was undertaken throughout the project period and has targeted various
categories of health personnel, notably workers at the primary level. In addition, some support
was provided by apex Leprosy Training Centers, both in capacity building and in contributing to
the supervision of MLEC campaigns.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate ofreturn:
Not applicable.
-7 -



4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project, which supported the vertical program structure used by GOI, has developed
institutional capacity through several interventions. It universalized MDT, instituted one shot
treatment for single lesion cases, and achieved remarkable success in release of patients from
treatment. The experience of the MLEC approach gained from Tamil Nadu was instituted after
the midterm review to improve earlier low coverage and detection of new cases. This change to a
mix of campaign and routine case detection resulted in a remarkable fall in overall rates of
reported leprosy. Also, the MLEC created mass awareness about facts of leprosy and availability
of free MDT treatment and the voluntary reporting of leprosy suspected patients in all the
States/UTs. In addition, in an effort to provide flexibility to meet local circumstances, the GOI
also began the institution of Special Action Projects for the Elimination of Leprosy (SAPELs).
The SAPELs implemented during the latter part of project implementation were able to reach
marginalized population groups in difficult to access areas and also were able to successfully
involve community based organizations and NGOs. These efforts will be continued and
intensified in the proposed second project.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The main factors outside the control of the implementing agency were:
v  The changing unde.standing of the epidemiology of leprosy over the life of the project and the
consequent conclusion that the original targets were over-optimistic.
* Changing global knowledge on leprosy control, and particularly changes in the definition of
the various forms of leprosy and resulting changes in prevalence estimates.
* Changing dynamics between the central and state governments which have resulted in a
climate more favorable to decentralization of central government activities and ownership to
the states.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Although a major factor contributing to the success of the project was the strong commitment of
GOI to control communicable diseases, including the elimination of leprosy, there were several
factors which affected implementation, such as:
* Absence of a strategic framework to deal with complex organizational issues related to the
integration of vertical programs into the general health services system.
-8 -



* Variable political commitment leading to inadequate management support, especially in the
states with high caseloads.
*  Inadequate program monitoring and supervision, especially at the level of state leprosy
officers and District Leprosy Societies.
The government also used its control to take actions which improved project implementation.
These included:
*  While there were delays in the submission of SOE audit reports at the start of the project, the
project took action to improve the financial management systems, including computerization
and strengthening of internal control and capacity.
*  Encouraging NGOs for delivery of disability services, including reconstructive surgery thus
recognizing the comparative advantage of NGOs.
a  Collecting and processing financial information and the resulting good disbursement.
*  Establishing standardized lists of goods for purchase by the districts.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
A number of factors under the implementing agency control received insufficient attention with
the result that there were:
*  Insufficient attention to training on interpresonal communication, especially in the preparation
of general health staff and MLEC volunteers.
*  Inadequate motivation of the general public to seek early treatment by creating better
community awareness and dispelling fear of the disease.
*  Inadequate technical supervision and monitoring particularly from peripheral units up to the
central level.
However, the implementing agency also used its control to take the following actions which
improved project effectiveness:
*  Collection and analysis of data on leprosy.
* Shifted administrative control closer to the ground at MTR.
*  Efficient procurement and distribution of MDT through WHO.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost of the enhanced national program over a six-year period was estimated at
-9-



appraisal to be US$138.3 million, of which US$85.0 million (SDR60.0 million equivalent) were to
be financed by an IDA Credit and US$53.0 million by the Government of India. As noted in
Section 3.4, the original IDA Credit was reduced from its original amnount of SDR 60.0 million
(US$85.0 million equivalent) to SDR 53.6 million (US$76.3 million equivalent) because of
increased WHO assistance in drug supplies. The final disbursement took place on January 31,
2001 at which time the revised amount of the Credit, SDR 53.6 million (US$74.3 million
equivalent), was fully disbursed.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
The project's sustainability has been rated "highly likely".
The Government has continued a strong commitment to control communicable diseases such as
leprosy, and has provided major support to the leprosy program for more than fifteen years.
Significant training inputs have been made over the project period. Important lessons relating to
IEC, detection and treatment of leprosy cases have been learned. Some progress in the integration
of vertical leprosy services with the general health services has been achieved. Although adequate
Govermment resources have been earmarked for the continuing support of the program, the
disease burden has decreased and, hence, the resource requirements to deal with it will also
decrease progressively. The needs for leprosy drugs and staff have already decreased, and it is
clear that the steady reduction in the rates of leprosy will substantially reduce the need for future
investments in control and rehabilitation. In fact, the benefits achieved by the project generated
high positive extemalities and the dissipation of leprosy as a public health problem has pemlitted a
decrease in annual expenditures as predicated at the appraisal.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Govemment of India has asked the Bank to support the program for an additional three years
in order to achieve and maintain elimination of leprosy from the country as a whole. Specifically,
the proposed second project would consolidate the gains made in the first project, with the
objective of transforming the National Leprosy Elimination Program into an effective and
sustainable program through a decentralized and integrated approach while supporting
government efforts to achieve and sustain lower levels of prevalence. Preparations for a second
project have been completed. The project implementation plans, prepared by the Govermment,
were appraised by the Bank in November 2000. The proposed second project was approved by
the Board in March 2001.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
As noted in section 3.5, the project design was consistent with the Bank's strategy and
government policy, and was appropriate for achieving the stated objectives by treating more than
4 million people with leprosy and reducing the leprosy prevalence rate. The project design
incorporated lessons from international and local experience with leprosy. These included (i) the
- 10-



importance of using appropriate technology; (ii) having a vertical infrastructure for service
delivery in high prevalence areas, and an integrated approach with the regular health care system
in moderate and low prevalence regions; (iii) providing disability care since deformity constitutes
the patient's single most important concern; (iv) not segregating patients or deterring patients
from seeking treatment; (v) the importance of inforning and convincing people that leprosy is
curable; (vi) raising awareness of the disease at the community level; and (vii) examination and
follow-up surveillance of contacts are more rewarding than mass surveys because of the clustering
tendency of leprosy. The experience of the project suggests that most of these remained
constraints to implementation. In addition, the design lacked a strategic framework to deal with
complex organizational issues related to integration of vertical programs into the general health
services.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision was planned for the period 1994-2000. .The project was thoroughly supervised.
"Formal" missions took place on average twice a year, but supervision was virtually "continuous".
Technical skills were brought in over the project implementation period and issues were addressed
in a timely manner. The implementation period benefited from continuity in responsibilities both
from the Bank and the Government. During the entire implementation period, there was only one
change of Bank task team leader and the same applied to the Govemrnment of India. These factors
contributed to a smooth supervision experience and improved follow up on implementation issues.
The Bank and GOI also collaborated closely with external partners including Danida and WHO.
The project was closely monitored through WHO resident technical assistance. Supervision
missions were regular and thorough, and they consistently discussed and agreed on ways of
overcoming implementation problems. Contact between Bank staff and leprosy program staff was
more frequent and issues were more easily resolved when project supervision responsibilities were
moved to the Bank's New Delhi Office.
The project was extended for six months. The main purpose of the extension was to provide a
bridging period to the follow-on project in order to enhance quality at entry and to continue
strengthening program and institutional capacity.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank, WHO and the Government of
India identified a project that was a high priority at the time and assistance during preparation and
appraisal was satisfactory. A very good working relationship was established and maintained
among development partners and the health authorities. Supervision missions played a supportive
role in policy development and the advice and assistance provided contributed to the good project
implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Govermnent of India took the leading role in project preparation. The team was led by the
Deputy Director General for Leprosy, and assisted in preparation of project proposals by
- 11 -



international and local WHO and Danida leprosy experts. A draft of the government's planning
document, which was completed at appraisal, included training plans and curricula, selection
criteria and time-tables for recruitment of health workers, additional beneficiary assessment
information, materials for patient health education, procurement plans, and agreement
mechanisms between States and District Leprosy Societies. The Project Coordination Unit of the
Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare was established prior to appraisal.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Since the project is a centrally sponsored scheme, the Union Government has coordinated the
project, developed policy and technical guidelines, implemented public awareness activities and
carried out major procurement and logistics. Budgetary allocations and sanctioning of funds to
the districts by the Union Government also proceeded well throughout most of the project
implementation. However, the implementation performance of the District Leprosy Societies was
mixed and slow in the early years. There was a short period of time during 1996 when the
program implementation deteriorated due to abrupt managerial changes unrelated to the project,
and seriously weakened the administrative and financial management performance at that time.
During the latter part of project implementation, the project leadership was highly satisfactory.
Following the mid-term review, in addition to ongoing core operations, the Government
conducted two rounds of MLEC in all the States/UTs of the country. As noted in section 4.2.2,
the campaigns had an important impact on mobilizing political and administrative support, the
community and additional resources. Most importantly, the involvement of the general health
services during these successful campaigns constituted an initial and important step towards the
future integration of leprosy within the general health care system.
The GOI complied with all legal covenants in accordance with the Development Credit
Agreement. Both funds flow and procurement were handled well. Leprosy drugs were procured
and provided by WHO free of charge. The project expenditures incurred by the Center and by
each participating State and Union Territory were audited by the normal GOI procedures. There
were delays in submitting the audit at the early part of the project implementation. As a result,
disbursements against SOEs were suspended twice, which negatively reflected on project
disbursements and performance. The project financial management system is currently in the
process of being computerized and would strengthen the financial control and management
capacity in the follow on second project. At the end of the project, the audits were all current.
The last fiscal year project and statement of expenditures audit are due on December 31, 2001.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agencies varied across the States. The project was centrally
sponsored and implemented directly through district leprosy societies, which limited the role of
the state in leprosy elimination. The pace of implementation from the district leprosy societies was
slow in the early years. Poor functioning of many district leprosy societies and the low
recruitment of personnel hampered the extension of service delivery. During the mid-term review,
a number of issues and problems in implementation was identified. These issues were alleviated
significantly in the latter part of the project, especially when MLECs were conducted. The
- 12 -



campaigns contributed considerably to improving project implementation, especially in the
generations of public awareness, identification of hidden cases, and extending free MDT services
to all states.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance.
The borrower's overall performance has been rated satisfactory, notably at the central level. As
noted in section 7.5, the GOI coordinated the project, developed policy and technical guidelines,
implemented public awareness activities, and carried out major procurement and logistics. The
GOI complied with all legal covenants in accordance with the Development Credit Agreement.
All the 490 districts in 32 states and union territories (UTs) were involved in implementing the
project components. However, performnance among the states was mixed. The project was
originally designed for the five-year period 1994-2000, but due to slow implementation at
start-up, the project was extended by six months. During the extended period, the revised Credit
was fully disbursed.
8. Lessons Learned
Extensive reviews of the project experience, which began during the mid-term review, continued
in the preparation of the second project. The lessons learned from these reviews, which have also
been incorporated into the Second National Leprosy Elimination Project, are summarized as
follows:
Institutional
* When the disease burden is high, the centralized vertical organizational structure is useful.
When the disease burden is reduced, an integrated approach is more efficient.
* The role of the states in project implementation needs to be strengthened.
: It is important to strengthen the capacity of the general health system to address long-term
issues of diagnosis and treatment.
Technical and Social
* Effective program management requires high quality, up-to-date epidemiological and
management information. There is a need to develop simple computerized information
systems to monitor and keep track of new case load cure rates and progress towards
elimination.
* It is important to increasingly embed leprosy control activities in the General Health System.
* Effective targeted program require high levels of coverage and saturation, and the
identification, reach and coverage of hard-to-reach groups, particularly urban poor, women
and scheduled tribes/castes, remain challenging.
- 13 -



* There is a need for a clear and well-coordinated strategy, which incorporates various IEC
interventions to meet well-defined goals.
* It is important to be aware of epidemiological changes and to change project design and
implementation accordingly.
Operational
* Monitoring activities should be an integral part of the routine functions of the program and
cannot be ad hoc activities linked solely to a Bank's supervision mission.
* NGOs played an important role and have a potential to increase their involvement in all
aspects of the program. There is a need to identify capable NGOs and to build their capacity
to effectively intervene in areas where the general health services are not functioning
adequately or where they cannot function in a cost effective manner.
* It is important to monitor the quality of services, as well as their quantity.
* The involvement of the State playing a role between the Centre and the Districts (over 300 in
number) can improve the monitoring and control processes. This new structure is being
planned for the Second Leprosy Elimination Project.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NATIONAL LEPROSY ERADICATION PROGRAMME IN INDIA
(CREDIT NO. 2528 IN)
BORROWER'S EVALUATION
In February 1994, the Government of India negotiated an IDA credit of US$85.0 million for a
period of 6 years starting from April 1994 to March 2000 to support a National Leprosy
Elimination Project. In view of free availability of anti-leprosy drugs from WHO, an amount of
US$9.0 million was surrendered subsequently. The project was completed on 31 March, 2000
but was given an extension for 6 months with a revised date of 30 September 2000.
Obiectives of the Proiect
(1)   To reduce the burden of leprosy as a public health problem by end of year 2000.
(2)   To decrease disability among new cases.
(3)   To reduce Multibacillary (MB) cases (with more than 10 lesions) to less than 200,000.
- 14 -



The Proiect consisted of the followine component:
(1)   Strengthening of on going MDT Services in 201 high endemic Districts.
(2)   Extension of MDT services to 289 uncovered moderate and low endemic Districts.
(3)   To promote public awareness of leprosy.
(4)   To provide disability/ulcer care services.
(5)   Capacity building of staff.
Target
Following quantitative targets were fixed:
(1)   To detect 2 million new cases during the project period in addition to 1.17 million cases
on record at start of project.
(2)   Cure 3.17 million leprosy patients.
The National Leprosy Eradication Program was implemented in all the districts of the country for
providing free leprosy services through District Leprosy Societies, which were set up under the
Project in the States/Union Territories (UTs). NGOs participation was encouraged by providing
them grant-in-aid for survey, education and treatment activities in an allotted population and
NGOs were also involved in disability ulcer care services including Reconstructive Surgery.
Total expenditure under the Project until March 2000 was Rs. 507.39 crores. Reimbursement
claims sent to the World Bank as of 30 November 2000 are for Rs. 321.96 crores against which
reimbursement of Rs. 266.13 crores was received till 23 November 2000. Balance claims for
expenditure up to extended period are being sent. Credit has been fully utilized. Annexure I gives
cost details by components.
Achievement
The NLEP project has shown significant achievements as follows:
(a)    The target of detecting 2 million new patients. 3.8 million new patients were detected.
(b)    Against the target 3.17 million patients for cure, 4.4 million were cured.
(c)   Disability among new cases are reduced to 3.12% by end of project from 8% in the
begmining.
(d)   MDT coverage of registered cases increased from 62% to 99.6%.
(e)   The total number of Multibacillary cases has reduced to 260,000 following the criteria of
more than 10 lesion for describing MB patients, that was adopted at the time of starting
the project is applied the number of MB patients works out to 130,000 by end of the
- 15 -



project.
(f)   Prevalence rate was reduced from 24 per 10,000 to 5.2 per 10,000.
(g)   Elimination level of leprosy considered as 1 per 10,000 population were reached in 9
States/UTs namely Nagaland, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Meghalaya,
Tripura, Sikkim and Jammu & Kashmir. Another 7 States/UTs are very close to reaching
elimination level. These are Kerala, Gujarat, Assam, Manipur, Rajasthan, Arunachal
Pradesh, and UT of Lakshadweep.
(h)   A package of services involving training, IEC and case detection drive was implemented in
all the States for a short period as a campaign. This has been designated as "Modified
Leprosy Elimination Campaign" (MLEC). Two rounds of MLEC were implemented in
the last two years detecting 0.46 and 0.21 million patients respectively. The training of
General Health Care staff and intensive IEC activities were undertaken before and during
the campaign in all districts of the country. The program received extensive coverage.
Large number of panchayat members and volunteers were also sensitized to leprosy.
Sustainability
A major problem in leprosy has been either ignorance about the causes, signs, symptoms, and cure
of the disease or not to report and seek proper treatment partly because of superstitious beliefs or
stigma. Very substantial public awareness about leprosy has been generated by the MLEC
campaign as well as large scale IEC activities done by BBC - MPM through DD/AIR, song and
drama division, field publicity units, DAVP in the five major endemic states. Side reach of leprosy
messages has been reported. Awareness has also resulted in increased voluntary reporting to
PHC's which have now been integrated with leprosy control efforts earlier in the program was
being run by vertical staff. During the Project a large number of general health care staff have
been provided training and exposure in conducting leprosy field survey, specially during the later
half of the project as well as in identifying patients and providing treatment. The new case
detection activities have also improved consequently.
The above efforts created sufficient confidence that integration of leprosy with general health care
can be started in the 27 States/UTs and even in five Major Endemic States and greater
involvement of General Health Care is being planned in the future. Sustainability of the project
has thereby been achieved to some extent but more needs to be done for complete and successful
integration of leprosy services with general health care and for capacity building of State Leprosy
Societies so that subsequent monitoring and surveillance activities are carried out effectively by all
the States and that disease resurgence does not take place.
Borrower's Performance
The Central Leprosy Division Directorate General of Health Services, Ministry of Health
strengthened the country's capacity for management of leprosy, generation of public awareness,
identification of hidden cases and extending free MDT services in all parts of the country. A
package of Modified Leprosy Elimination Campaign has been developed which has been
- 16-



successfully implemented in all the States and the expertise of the States/UTs have been
developed for implementing such a campaign successfully in the future.
Constraints/Limitations
(1)   Five major endemic state continue to contribute large number of patients. Availability of
General Health Care staff and their preparedness to take up leprosy work is not adequate
in these States. Coverage of the program in the difficult to access areas and slums are also
not adequate due to inadequate infrastructure.
(2)   In the 27 other States/UTs, there are still hidden cases, although comparatively less. With
reduction of patient load, work load for vertical staff has reduced in most of the areas.
Therefore, the existing General Health Care infrastructure needs to be properly prepared
for taking up the responsibility of leprosy work under supervision and guidance of a
skeleton vertical staff from States and District nucleus.
(3)   States need to take a more pro-active role in planning implementation and monitoring of
the program.
Lessons Learned
Lessons learned during the first phase of the implementation have been reviewed and utilized
while preparing NLEP Second Project. Since the problem of leprosy has reduced, building of
ownership and management capacity at States and Districts level through decentralized planning
and implementation has become a priority to make the program sustainable in future. Special
activities like SAPEL/LEC are being targeted for difficult and tribal areas and slums in the big
cities. The effective health management information system within the integrated set up will be an
integral part of NLEP Second Project. The administrative and technical support capacity are
being built-up through strengthening of State Leprosy Societies and providing WHO Consultants
in the high endemic areas and by the involvement of ILEP support teams to improve program
implementation in problem districts.
Performance/Evaluation of the World Bank
Assistance extended by the World Bank contributed substantially in the management of leprosy
situation in India by ensuring program to be extended to the entire country and generating
substantial public awareness. The Project was monitored closely by the Supervisory Mission
visits during the entire Project period. These visits had had a high levels of commitment and
provided useful guidelines to the borrowers which helped in the implementation of the project.
All the aide-memories of the Bank were fully documented and contained the list of agreed actions.
The borrower readily responded to the reviews of various missions by suitable action. Excellent
cooperation existed between the Bank Staff and Implementing Agencies and this relationship
continues to grow. The World Bank has already appraised NLEP phase II.
- 17 -



Conclusion
The first project has been very successful in achieving the targets set for case detection and cure.
The reason for the success can be mainly attributed to the sincere efforts made by Directorate
General of Health Services and Ministry of Health, Government of India and all the State
Governments and the World Bank for making the project flexible and allowing a detailed specific
action plan at implementation stage.
Annexure I
Statement Indicating Componentwise Expenditure on
Phase-I of NLEP
(1993-94 TO 30.9.2000)
(Rs. In crores)
S.No.        Component             IDA         %        GOI                   Total
1  Vertical Multi Drug           136.06     43.68     175.45      56.32      311.51
,Therapy                   .
2   Integration of MDT            74.17     57.56      54.68      42.44      128.85
through PHC                                                           .     -
3   Disability Care and           18.91     95.20        0.95      4.80       19.86
Prevention
4   Promoting Public              25.29     53.09       22.34     46.91       47.63
Awareness
5   Enhancing Skill and           37.70     89.04        4.64     10.96       42.34
Institutional Development
Total             292.13     53.10    258.06       46.90      550.19
-18-



(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Since the Danida and WHO have been extensively involved in leprosy control in India, the draft
ICR was provided to both agencies for commnents. The comments received were incorporated in
the final ICR.
10. Additional Information
- 19-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:                                                ._
IndicatorlMattix                   Projected In last PSR                 Actual/atest Estimate
To eliminate leprosy as a public health  Reduce the prevalence from 24/10,000 to    Current national prevalence rate is 5/10,000,
problem in India by year 2000, by reducing   3-4 per 10,000 nationwide.     decreased from 24/10,000 when the project
the prevalence from 24/10,000 to 1/10,000                                   was appraised.
nationwide.
Treating 2.2 million people with leprosy and  During the project, the registered case load
1.8 million new cases.                at the national level was reduced by 42.7%
(1.17 million cases in March 1993 and 0.51
million in March 2000).
4.4 million leprosy patents were treated and
cured.
Out of 490 districts, 137 districts (24.6%)
reached a prevalence rate of <1/10,000.
It is estmated that 10 states/UTs will achieve
elimination levels by the end of year 2000.
The remaining states would reach elimination
levels after 2000.
Universal access to curative Multi-drug
Therapy (MDT) achieved which has
exceeded the target of 90% of the Nation's
patients receiving MDT.
To reduce the impact of leprosy disability    Earlier detection leading to a reducion in    At the Ume of mid-term review of the project
number of persons newly diagnosed with   in 1997, the GOI decided not to formally
disabilities (from 8 to 3%)           pursue the secondary objecive relating to the
impact of disability, because of the need to
focus the project inputs specifically on the
elimination of leprosy, which was the
principal project objective.
GOI has encouraged and supported NGOs
to strengthen activities for prevention of
disabilities, including reconstructve surgery.
Disability among new cases is reduced from
8% in the beginning of the project to 3% by
the end of project.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected In last PSR        |        Actual/Latest Estimate
No. of health personnel deployed in about 66 An average of 100 persons would be  Completed appointment of vertical staff
high endemic districts.               required per district.                involved in 52 districts. However,
appointment of contract staff has only
partially completed the deployment of health
personnel in 13 districts, and one district in
West Bengal has not been created at all due
to a legal action.
-20 -



3,062 contracted workers have been
recruited including health workers, non-
medical supervisors, laboratory technicians,
physiotherapists, health educators and
medical officers.
63 (96%) of the 66 high endemic areas
reached low endemic level, and 3 (4%)
reached the moderate category.
No. of Service Delivery Circuits established   Ensure 90% of the nation's patients receive  MDT coverage of registered cases increased
and patients received MDT             MDT.                                   from 62% to 99.6%. MDT is being provided
by primary health centers, community health
Providing MDT through the existing primary                                   centers, and general health hospRtals in all
care system in about 77                                                      the states except Andhra Pradesh.
intermediate-endemicity districts and pockets
of infection within the remaining low                                        The original 135 districts became 152
endemicity regions of the country.                                           districts due to bifurcation of the districts. At
the end of the project, none of 152 districts
remain highly endemic. Of these, 97.4% are
low endemic and 2.6% are in the moderately
endemic category. However, elimination
could be fully attained only in four of 152
districts.
Partially integrated service delivery
approaches were employed in moderate and
low endemic districts.
During the course of the project, about 4
million of pabents have been cured of
leprosy, and about 4.5 million received MDT
treatment
All new patients have access to MDT
through the govemment and NGO health
facilities.
Prevent disabilities from developing into  Reduction of burden of new disability "grade  Among new cases, severe grade 11
handicaps (3rd level prevention) by   Il+W                                   disabilities declined from 8 percent in year
re-constructive surgery in selected health                                   1993 to 3.12 percent in 2000.
facilities.
Various forms of disability were averted
among millions of patients who were treated
with MDT. Based on the natural history of
the disease, R is estmated that at least 0.3
million impairments and disability were
prevented or 7 percent of the total recorded
pabents cured on MDT during the project
period.
Provision for 200 operatons in the project   Annually, 3,200 major remedial surgery was
area per district.                    carried out in 50 centers, supported by GOI
and ILEP. Similariy, about 31,000 minor
surgeries were being done in various NGO
facilities. However, this activiy needs to be
evaluated and capabilities to undertake it
need to be beKter defined.
GOI enacted legislation providing equal
opportunity for the disabled, including those
disabled by leprosy.
-21 -



Promoting public awareness and community Provide village awareness camps, non-formal Skin diagnostc camps have been
participabon                          methods of education, mass media and  implemented in several states which helped
interpersonal education by heaflth personnel  in creatng awareness of leprosy services.
with an emphasis on the importance of eariy  Overall, however, efforts in this area have
treatment and gender concems.         been inadequate.
Interpersonal communication has been
hampered by insufficient attention to training
especially in the preparation of GHS staff
and volunteers for the Modified Leprosy
Eliminaton Campaigns (MLEC).
The first MLEC was implemented in all
States/UTs, yielding 2.9 million suspected
cases, of which 460,000 were confirmed to
be leprosy.
The second round of MLEC (implemented in
all States except Delhi, Andaman & Nicobar
Islands and D N Haveli), yielded 1.9 million
suspected cases, of which 21 1,000 were
confirmed.
During the MLEC in year 2000, IEC was
undertaken with the help of BBC-MPM
participation using mass media approaches.
Some IEC has also taken place using the
more traditionally employed methods such as
publicity at fairs and meetings, posters, wall
paintings, etc. These have not been
evaluated, but are generally assessed to be
inadequate.
In all IEC activites, messages have been
incorporated on prevention and reducton of
disability.
No. of National Leprosy Eliminaton Program  Total of 160,160 NLEP staff received  Short-term training of NLEP staff were
(NLEP) staff trained                  training.                             completed in all districts, including high,
intermediate endemicity districts and
endemic pockets. Specific leaming materials
were developed in 14 regional languages for
trainers, doctors, supervisory staff,
paramedical staff, village level volunteers and
all the health staff. In addition, special POD
training was also conducted in 210 districts.
A total of 49,000 doctors and 278,000 health
staff have been provided orientaton training
which exceeded the original target. During
the MLECs held in 1998/ 2000, a total
286,000 village level workers were given
sensitzation training. However, there has
been inadequate training of staff in areas
such as counseling, effectve use of local
media, etc.
Developing training capabilities and providing Data not available           Some support was provided by apex
support to outreach patient care activites in                               Leprosy Training Centers, both in capacity
the main Leprosy Training and Research                                      building and in contributing to the supervision
Institutes in Raipur, Chengalput. Agra, Aska                                of MLEC campaigns.
and Gouripur.
End of project
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuaULatest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component           L US$ million    US$ million
Vertical Multi-Drug Therapy                         80.89           79.19            98
Integration of Multi-Drug Therapy thru PHC          22.25           32.75           147
Disability Care & prevention                         7.95            5.05            64
Promoting Public Awareness                          12.45           12.11            97
Enhancing Skills and Institutional Development      12.55           10.76            86
Total Baseline Cost                                136.09          139.86
Physical Contingencies                              8.44
Price Contingencies                                -6.26
Total Project Costs            138.27
Total Financing Required            138.27          139.86
Source: Staff Appraisal Report (June 4, 1993); Directorate General of Health Services (Leprosy Division)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expeniditur?eCategoryr            -CB           KB    M      her       ..F- '   To alCosto
1. Equipment, Material,              13.77        2.00       28.14      -            43.91
Medicines, and Vehicles         (12.39)       (1.80)    (21.03)                  (35.22)
2. Consultants and Training                      -            8.17      -              8.17
(8.17)                  (8.17)
3. Contractural Services                         -           37.97       -            37.97
(32.15)                 (32.15)
4. Publicity Services                            -            6.18       -             6.18
(5.22)                  (5.22)
5. Incremental Honoraria                         -            4.51       -             4.51
(2.25)                  (2.25)
6. Incremental Operations and                    -            3.99       -             3.99
Maintenance Costs                                         (2.00)                   (2.00)
7. Miscellaneous 3                                           -           33.54        33.54
Total                                13.77        2.00       88.96       33.54       138.27
(12.39)      (1.80)    (70.81)      -           (85.00)
-23 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million e uivalent)
1. Equipment, Material,                     9.05           0.51         37.25                         46.81
Medicines, and Vehicles                (8.25)         (0.41)        (9.39)                       (18.05)
2. Consultants and Training                                             13.30                         13.30
(I 1.99)                      (I1.99
3. Contractural Services                                 -              36.23         -               36.23
(31.46)                       (31.46)
4. Publicity Services                                    -               10.36        -                10.36
(9.56)                        (9.56
5. Incremental Honoraria                                 -                0.10        -                 0.10
(0.1I0)                       (0.1I0)
6. Incremental Operations and                            -                7.16        -                 7.16
Maintenance Costs                                                    (3.10)                        (3.10)
7. Miscellaneous 3 /-                                    -              -              25.90          25.90
Total                                       9.05           0.51        104.40          25.90         139.86
(8.25)        (0.41)       (65.60)        -               (74.26)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Not Bank financed.
3/ Includes civil works, furniture, NGO services, office operation & maintenance, patient ex-gratia, hospital services, salaries and
consumable materials.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percntage of Appraisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate
FDA       Govt.      CoF.       IDA        GovL       Cop.    IDA    Govt.  CoF.
Vertical Multi-Drug        43.67      38.48                34.59       44.60                79.2   115.9
Therapy
Integration of Multi-Drug  14.49      6.76                  18.85      13.90               130.1  205.6
Therapy thru PHC
Disability Care and        8.43       0.42                  4.80       0.24                 56.9   57.1
prevention
Promoting Public           6.99       6.17                  6.44       5.68                 92.1   92.1
Awareness
Enhancing Skills and       11.46      1.40                  9.58        1.18                83.6
Institutional Development
TOTAL                      85.04      53.23                 74.26      65.60                87.3   123.2
Source: Staff Appraisal Report (June 4, 1993); Directorate General of Health Services (Leprosy Division)
-24 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic costs and benefits analysis was carried out at the time of project appraisal or for the ICR.
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of ProjectCycle          :     No. of Persons.and Specialty -PerformanceRating&
(eGg.2 Econo,Mistsi*IFMS, otoi)     D     J "mentatio_ion .Doveoprmcnt
Month/Year   Count           Specialt                       Progress:     :Objective
Identification/Preparation
Identification             5   Mission Leader, Economist,          S              S
01/28/1992 -                   Financial Specialist, Sr.
02/11/1992                     Anthropologist, Health
Education and Communication
Consultant
Preparation                                                        S              S
05/11/1992 -               6   Mission Leader, Economist, Sr.
05/26/1992                     Anthropologist, Public Health
Specialist, HRD and Training
Consultant, Health Education
and Communication Consultant
Pre-Appraisal                                                      S              S
10/04/1992 -               8   Mission Leader, Economist, Sr.
10/23/1992                     Anthropologist, WID Specialist,
Sr. Architect/Implementation
Specialist, Operations Officer
(Financial Analyst), HRD and
Training Consultant, Health
Education and Communication
Consultant
Appraisal/Negotiation
01/24/1993 -               9   Mission Leader and Sr.              S              S
02/07/1993                      Public Health Physician, Sr.
Anthropologist, Economist,
Sr. Architect/
Implementation Specialist,
Operations Officer, Sr.
Operations Officer,
Procurement Specialist,
Financial Analyst
(Disbursement and
Auditing), HRD and
Training Consultant
Supervision
05/01/1994 -               2   Mission Leader, Public              S              S
05/15/1994                     Health Specialist
11/06/1994 -               2   Mission Leader, Public Health       S              S
11/27/1994                     Specialist
10/24/1995 -               3   Mission Leader/Public Health        S             HS
11/27/1995                     Specialist, Health Education,
Service Organization
- 26 -



05/29/1996                  1   Public Health Specialist            S              HS
04/11/1996 -                3   Mission Leader/Public Health        U              HS
27/11/1996                      Specialist, Health Education,
Service Organization
04/05/1997 -                3   Mission Leader, Financial           S               S
05/25/1997                      Management Specialist, Training
Specialist (IDA) & 7 teams
including Public, Academic,
Bilateral, Mulitlateral and NGO
01/19/1998 -                2   Mission Leader/Principal Public     S               S
01/23/1998                      Health Specialist, Public Health
Specialist
08/31/1998 -                2   Mission Leader/Principal Public     HS              S
09/30/1998                      Health Specialist, Public Health
Specialist
04/22/1999 -                3   Mission Leader/Principal Public     HS              S
04/23/1999                      Health Specialist, Public Health
05/10/1999 -                    Specialist, Finance Specialist
05/12/1999
11/22/1999 -                9   Mission Leader, IEC/NGO/            S               S
12/08/1999                      Training, Surveillance/
Epidemiologist, Procurement
Specialist, Leprologist,
Information System, Drug
Logistics, Leprologist/Institution,
Surveillance/Training
05/28/2000-                 1   Public Health specialist            S               S
06/03/2000
ICR
08/25/2000 -                S    Mission Leader, Principal          S               S
09/03/2000                       Public Health Specialist!
Team Leader, Public Health
Specialist, Procurement
Specialist, Finance
Management Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               24.0                        84.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                    36.7                       128.4
Supervision                              96.0                       335.9
ICR                                      18.7                        65.4
Total                                   175.4                       613.7
Source: Project details at a glance as of 12/20/00.
-27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                            O H  O SU OM  O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                          O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
N Physical                                 OH OSUOM ON ONA
N Financial                                O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
 Institutional Development                0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
 Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                 OH  *SUOM  O N  O NA
N Gender                             OH OSUOM ON ONA
M Other (Please specify)            OH  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Stakeholder Participation
E Private sector development               0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management                 0 H  O SU * M  Q N  0 NA
M Other (Please specify)                   OH  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Involvement of NGOs
-28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
I Lending                                            OHS*S  OU  OHU
 Supervision                                        OHS OS   OU  OHU
M Overall                                            OHS *S O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
N Preparation                                        OHS OS   O  U  O HU
Z  Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
N Implementation agency performance                  O HS OS   0  U  0 HU
E Overall                                            OHS Os   0  U  O HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Report of the Mid-term Appraisal of World Bank NLEP Supported project (7-9 April, 1997). The
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, April 1997.
Report on the Modified Leprosy Elimination Campaign, under National Leprosy Eradication
Programme. Directorate General of Health Services (Leprosy Division), the Ministry of Health
and Family Welfare, Government of India, March 1999 and January 2001.
Various Project Progress Reports. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of
India. 1994-2000.
Report on Independent Evaluation of National Leprosy Eradication Programme. National
Institute of Epidemiology (Indian Council of Medical Research), June 2000 and January 2001.
Report on Data Validation under NLEP. Organized by Central Leprosy Teaching and Research
Institute, Chengalpattu, Directorate General of Heal Services (Leprosy Division), the Ministry of
Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, June 1999.
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), India National Leprosy Elimination Project. World Bank. June 4,
1993.
Development Credit Agreement, Credit Number 2528-IN. World Bank. February 4, 1994.
Project Agreement, Credit Number 2528-IN. World Bank. June, 1994.
Mid-Term Review/Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire. World Bank. May, 1994.
Project Status Reports of various supervision missions. World Bank. 1994 - 2000.
Aide Memorire, Implementation Completion Mission Report. World Bank. August 25 -
September 3, 2000.
Weekly Epidemiological Record, No. 28. World Health Organization. July 2000.
- 30 -



- 31 -



