Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11735-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
JUNE 4, 1993
South Asia Country Department II (India)
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of April 1, 1993)
Currency Unit - Rupee
Rupee 32.60   - US$ 1.00
Rupee 1.00    - US$ 0.031
METRIC EOUIVALENTS
1 Meter (m) - 3.28 Feet (ft)
1 Kilometer (km) - 0.62 Miles
FISCAL YEAR
April - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DANIDA   -  Danish Development Assistance Agency
0OI      -  Government of India
IDA      -   International Development Association
IEC      -   Information, Education and Communication
MB       -  Multi-Bacillary
MDT      -  Multidrug Therapy
M.leprae -  Mycobacterium leprae
MMDT     -  Modified Multidrug Therapy
MOHFW    -  Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
NGO      -  Non-Governmental Organization
NLEP     -  National Leprosy Eradication Program
PC       -  Paucibacillary
PHC      -  Primary Health Care
SIDA     -  Swedish International Development Agency
UT       -  Union Territory
WHO      -  World Health Organization



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
DEFINITIONS
Bacilli                   Rod-shaped bacteria.
Coverage                  A measure of the extent to which the services rendered cover the potential need for
these services in a cocsmunity. It is expressed as a proportion in which the
numerator is the number of services rendered, and the denominator is the number of
instances in which the service should have been rendered.
Elimination               The 44th World Health Assembly (1991) adopted a resolution to eliminate leprosy
of Leprosy                by the year 2000, with elimination defined as reaching a level of prevalence below
1 case per 10,000 population.
Endemicity                The usual presence of a disease or infectious agent within a geographic area or
population group.
Epidemiology              The study of the distribution and determinants of health-related conditions and
events in populations, and the application of this study to the control of health
problems.
Incidence Rate            Number of nev cases of a disease or condition over a period of tim  as a proportion
of the population at risk at midpoint. Incidence means newv and is a dLrect
indicator of risk.
Leprosy                   Also called Hansen's disease (Hansen's bacillus vas discovered by the Norwegian
physician G. Armauer Hansen in 1874). Chronic slow developing bacterial disease of
man caused by Mycobactarium leprae affecting mainly perLpheral nerves and skin.
The suffering of leprosy is caused by damage to the peripheral nerves, vhich leads
to sensory loss, paralysis and loss of function of the hands, feet and eyes. It is
feared because of its potential for crippling and disfigurement. The resulting
deformities are the main cause of the social stigm attached to the disease.
Multibacillary            Leprosy case showing a high density of bacilli on slit-skin smear examination.
Leprosy (MB)              The result of this microscopic examination is recorded as the bacterial index.
Multibacillary leprosy is associated vith the progressive and disseminated form of
disease called lepromatous leprosy.
Paucibacillary            Leprosy case shoving only a few or no bacilli on slit-skin smear examination.
Leprosy (PB)              Paucibacillary leprosy Ls associatod vith tuberculoid leprosy, vhich is a milder
form of the disease.
Prevalence Rate           Number of cases of a disease or condition at a given point in time as a proportion
of the total population. Prevalence means all and is used by health planners to
assess workload and service delivery noods.
Vertical service          Method of service dolivery which utilisos a specialised monopurpose staff and
rosources in contrast with a horisontal service, vhich utiliLsc the general health
care system to provide a specific service.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- ii -
INDIA
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS                                          PAGE NO,
CREDIT  AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY    ...  .                  .   .  .  .     . ....  .     .   .  .  .   .  .   .     .  iv
1.      LEPROSY  SITUATION  IN  INDIA
A.       The  Issue  of Leprosy  in  India  . .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                   1
B.    Development of the National Leprosy Eradication Program . .    3
C.       Current  Issues  in Leprosy  Control  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                     3
D. Lessons of Experience.                                                                               7
E.    Country Assistance Strategy and Rationale for Involvement                                         9
II.     THE  PROJECT
A.       Project  Objectives    .  .  .  .  .  . .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    10
B.       Project  Approach    .  .  .  . .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    10
C.       Technical  and  Policy  Features                .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    10
D.       Epidemiological  Scenario  with  the  Enhanced  Program    .  .  .  .    12
E.       Project  Description             . .  .  . .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    13
III.  PROJECT COST, FINANCING. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
A.       Costs  .  .  . .  .  . .  .  . .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    18
B.       Financing  Plan    .  .  .  . .  .  . .  . .  .  . .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .    20
C. Sustainability. .  .    ........  20
D. Implementation. .  .    ........  21
E.      Monitoring    .  .  .  .  .  . .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    23
F. Disbursements .24
G. Procurement .25
H. Accounting and Auditing .28
IV.     BENEFITS  AND  RISKS
A.       Benefits    ...  .           .    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .     .  28
B.      Risks  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    29
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS.  ............29
This report is based on an appraisal mission that visited India in JanuarylFebruary 1993 sand consisted oft
Salim Rabayeb (Mission Leader and Sr. Public Bealth Physician), Maria Donoso Clark (Sr. Anthropologist),
Sheryl Sandberg (Economist), Avyeris Andonyadie (Sr. Architect), Xevin Casey (Operations Officer) end B. K.
Rao (NLEP Consultant). Chandra Godavitarne (Sr. Operations Officer), N. Remen (Procurement Zngineer), end
S. Subremanian (Financial Analyst) participated in appraising procurement, disbursement end auditing
arrangements. The mission was assisted by Boudevijn Peters (Chief Adviser, DnIrDA Assisted-NLIP) end Olavi
Elo (WHO Representative to Inidia). Rekha Dayal (Women in Development Specialist), Kohindar Virdy
(Procurement Specialist), Damianos Odeh (Sr. Economist), A. A. Contractor (Public Health Specialist), John
Middleton (Sr. Operations Officer), Jian Mei Gan (Financial Analyst), Joel Almeida (Consultant Leprologiet),
L. Lopez-Bravo (WHO Consultant), M. George (WHO Consultant), Don Foster (Training Consultant) and Judy Brace
(Health Education Consultant) participated in project preparation. Soon-Won Pak, Vivian Mendosa and Edward
Davis prepared the documents, graphics, annexes end cost tables. The Peer Reviewers Vero S. K. Noordeen
(Chief Medical Officer, Leprosy Unit, WHO, Geneva) and Jean-Louis Lemboray (AITPB). The Project is endorsed
by Richard Skolnik, Chief, Population and Hunma Resources Division and Heins Vergin, Director, India Country
Department.



- iii -
PAGE NO,
TABLES
2.1  NLEP  Expenditures  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  11
3.1  Cost  by  Component   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  19
3.2  Costs by Categories of Expenditure  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
3.3  Procurement Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
ANNEXES
1.   Prevalence Rate of Leprosy and Registered Leprosy Cases
by State  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   31
2.   Age Specific Incidence Rates of Leprosy in an Endemic Region  . .  33
3.   Nerve Damage and Mechanisms Causing Disability  . . . . . . . . .  34
4.   Existing Infrastructure under the NLEP, 1991  . . . . . . . . . .  37
5. Staff Duties    ..38
6.   Past Budget Provisions for NLEP       ..52
7. Standard MDT Regimen    ..53
8.   Effectiveness of Multidrug Therapy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  54
9.  Epidemiologic Scenarios    ..56
10.  List of 66 High Endemicity Districts to be covered through
Vertical Structure  ....  .  .  .   . ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  58
11. Service Delivery Circuits    ..60
12.  List of 77 Intermediate Endemicity Districts
to be Covered under the Modified MDT Plan   . . . . . . . . . .  61
13.  List of Institutions Performing Reconstructive Surgery  . . . . .  63
14.  Training Schedule   .........   .............  .   65
15.  Selected Project Cost Tables and Detailed Procurement Table   . .  66
16.  Monitoring Indicators ........   .............  .   71
17.   Supervision Plan  ......... ...............   73
18.  Forecast of Expenditures and Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . .  74
19.  Selected Working Papers and Documents available
in  the  Project  File  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  75



- iv -
INDIA
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         India, acting by its President
Beneficiaries:    Selected States and Union Territories of India
Amout:             SDR 60.0 million (US$85.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard, with 35 years maturity
On-lending terms: Government of India to the States and Union Territories in
accordance with standard arrangements for development
assistance to States and Union Territories
Description:      The objectives of the project are to eliminate leprosy as a
public health problem in India by the turn of the century by
reducing the disease prevalence from 2.4 per 1,000 to 0.1
per 1,000 and to reduce the impact of leprosy disability.
The project would finance the incremental cost of a six-year
time slice of an enhanced National Leprosy Eradication
Program. The project would bring added value and efficiency
to the program through promotion of an appropriate mix of
service delivery mechanisms, policies and strategies,
provision of a wider and more effective package of leprosy
services, and expansion of the use of appropriate
technology.
The project would focus on program enhancements in five
activities: (a) exDansion of multidrug theraRy through a
vertical structure targeting about 66 high-endemicity
districts, providing outreach services to the community and
service circuits designed with the participation of the
beneficiary population, and strengthening current control
operations in 135 other districts with high prevalence;
(b) integration of multidrug theraRy into the general health
care system in about 77 intermediate-endemicity districts
and pockets of infection; (c) disability care and Rrevention
through health education, preventive precautions,
physiotherapy, supportive medicines, ulcer care and
reconstructive surgery; (d) promoting public awareness and
community Rarticipation through village awareness camps,
non-formal methods of education, mass media and
interpersonal education by health personnel with emphasis on
the importance of early treatment and gender concerns; and
(e) enhancing skills and institutional development through
the provision of short-term training to about 160,000
persons and strengthening program coordination capabilities.



v 
Benefits:         The project would enable India to eliminate leprosy as a
national public health problem by the year 2000. The
project would eliminate the disease in 2.2 million people
with leprosy and in 1.8 million new cases, treating a total
of 4 million people. The project would decrease the
occurrence of disability alleviating human suffering,
economic loss and the social burden and stigma of the
disease. Leprosy control generates high positive
externalities. The project would have a high social return
in terms of healthy life years saved.
The project would reach underprivileged communities and
benefit an estimated 2.4 million people below the GOI
poverty line. The project would benefit about 1.6 million
women and reduce the current gaps in the coverage and
treatment of women with leprosy.
Rlaks:             There are some risks to the project.  First, there is a risk
that the Union Government may not be able to facilitate
local implementation of all control activities. This will
be addressed by upfront State commitment to project
implementation through Letters of Undertaking, by providing
the States with Leprosy Consultants, and by encouraging
continuous State involvement in planning and evaluating
program activities through regular workshops and increased
local training. The project would foster local involvement
by further developing the role of the District Leprosy
Societies in project implementation. Second, there is a
risk that primary health care staff may not be sufficiently
motivated to fulfill leprosy responsibilities in the
integrated model of service delivery. This would be
addressed by selecting moderate prevalence areas for this
model of service delivery, and through the provision of in-
service training and incentives for performance. Third,
there are the usual risks of poor use of project investments
by a Borrower whose implementation record is mixed. These
would be addressed by the careful preparation of
implementation arrangements, project management and
procurement, and the use of WHO resident technical
assistance for project monitoring.



- vi -
Local   Foreign   Total
------ US$ Million ----
Estimated Proiect Cost: /
Vertical Multidrug Therapy                        71.2       9.7       80.9
Multidrug Therapy through PHC                     19.6       2.7       22.3
Disability Care & Prevention                       6.2       1.7        7.9
Promoting Public Awareness                        11.7       0.7      12.4
Enhancing Skills and
Institutional Development                      119         0.7      12
TOTAL BASE COST                                  120.6      15.5     136.1
Contingencies                                   -0.5       2.7       2.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST                               120.1      18 2      138.3
LA Including taxes and duties estimated at US$3.4 million equivalent.
Financing Plan:
Government                                     53.3        -        53.3
IDA                                                       JILl
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                             120.1       ILI      138.3
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY           EY94    EL29    EY9.      E12Z     FM28      FY99    FY2000
Annual            8.6    16.5    16.6      14.0      13.5     11.8       4.0
Cumulative        8.6    25.1    41.7      55.7      69.2     81.0     85.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable






INDIA
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
I. LEPROSY SITUATION IN INDIA
A. The Issue of Leprosy in India: Dimensions and ERidemiology
1.01        India is one of the few countries where leprosy is a major public
health problem, accounting for one third of the global leprosy load.
Currently, there are approximately 2.2 million people with leprosy in India,
with 300,000 new cases arising annually, bringing the projected total disease
burden during the rest of the decade to about 4 million people.
1.02        Although the disease is found throughout the Indian sub-continent,
it is not equally distributed. A wide variation in prevalence exists and
high-, moderate- and low-endemicity areas have been identified. The areas of
high prevalence where nearly 435 million people live are found mainly in the
central and south-eastern parts of the country.
1.03        Leprosy, also called Hansen's disease, is a chronic, slow
developing infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium leprae (M. leprae).
Leprosy is essentially a disease of peripheral nerves. The majority of people
who are exposed to M. leprae develop a subclinical infection, show no signs or
symptoms of disease, and recover naturally. For those who do develop the
disease, skin patches are the most common manifestation. Many untreated
leprosy patients are at risk of disability unless the disease is detected and
treated in time and the nerves protected by anti-inflammatory therapy as
needed. About 30 percent of untreated patients suffer from deformities.
1.04        Before the 1980s, leprosy control was based on dapsonel/
monotherapy which involves prolonged or life-long treatment, making compliance
very difficult and generating a high frequency of drug resistance. As a
result, this approach had little effect on breaking the transmission of the
infection or on reducing disease prevalence. Progress in controlling leprosy
during the 1980s, however, has been encouraging, mainly as a result of the
development of multidrug therapy (MDT), a treatment consisting of three drugs:
rifampicin, clofazimine, and dapsone. MDT was successfully introduced in 135
districts and led to the decline of leprosy in these areas. The average
annual case discharge of MDT-cured patients over the last several years
exceeded the annual new case detection.
1.05        Out of 455 districts in the nation, 201 are classified as high
endemicity districts with prevalence rates of over 5 per 1,000 or an average
of 15,000 cases per district. However, the prevalence has recently decreased
to intermediate levels in many of the 135 districts were MDT was introduced.
The remaining areas requiring MDT provision consist of 163 districts of high
and intermediate endemicity. The prevalence of leprosy cases in India is
shown in Annex 1. The current status of the program coverage is as follows:
1/  Sulfone drugs were first introduced for leprosy therapy at the U.S. Public
Health Service Hospital at Carville, Louisiana, in 1943.



- 2 -
LeRrosy prevalence         Districts               Status
High                     201 districts      135 currently under MDT
66 require MDT provision
Intermediate              77 districts      Require MDT provision
Low                      177 districts      Endemic pockets of infection
equivalent to 20 districts
require MDT
1.06        The implications of leprosy as a public health problem are
significant. Leprosy imposes negative externalities on society due to its
potential for causing physical deformities, chronicity, communicability when
untreated and propensity to generate intense negative social reaction against
inflicted people. Those who suffer from leprosy face a loss of employment and
ostracization from their families and communities.
1.07        Leprosy affects people of all ages, with children comprising
approximately 15 percent of leprosy patients. Age-specific incidence rates
show a bimodal distribution, peaking at 10-14 years and during adulthood, as
shown in Annex 2. The prevalence of leprosy among boys and girls is
approximately equal. In adults, however, the prevalence among males is nearly
twice that of females. This may be related to a greater opportunity of
repeated contact with other infected people, social practices or hormonal
factors. Some of this differential may be explained by the fact that males
are more likely to seek treatment and more easily screened by field workers.
1.08        Disability in leprosy patients results from nerve damage occurring
in two ways: first, M. leprae can proliferate within nerves and second, the
body's own responses against M. leprae can damage nerves. Patients cease to
feel pain in the affected region (anaesthesia) and lose their tissues by
constant damage, infection, and wearing down. Muscles connected with damaged
nerves become paralysed and waste away, permitting other muscles to pull
affected limbs into deformed positions. Without treatment, deformity is
likely as most nerve damage occurs without the patient's knowledge. Annex 3
illustrates nerve damage and mechanisms causing disability.
1.09        Clinically, leprosy is classified within a spectrum of categories
between the two extreme forms: tuberculoid leprosy, which is localized to one
or more body sites, and lepromatous leprosy, which is a more serious,
generalized disease with multiple organ involvement. In slit-skin smear
examinations, tuberculoid leprosy is paucibacillary (PB) while lepromatous
leprosy is multibacillary (MB). Disease classification is valuable as it
helps in determining the prognosis and duration of treatment, the likely
response to treatment, and the possible therapeutic complications that can be
alleviated through proper measures. Diagnosis of leprosy is based on:
(a) characteristic skin lesions such as hypopigmentation in the tuberculoid
form, and diffuse infiltration, macules and nodules in the lepromatous form;
(b) sensory loss of individual skin lesions or of an area of the skin supplied
by a peripheral nerve; (c) thickened nerves at the sites of predilection such



- 3 -
as the ulnar, posterior tibial, lateral popliteal, radial cutaneous, facial
and greater auricular nerves; and (d) demonstration of acid-fast bacilli in
microscopic examinations of slit-skin smears.
1.10        The human being is the only transmission reservoir of significance
although armadillos and Mangabey monkeys can be affected as well. M. leprae
is transmitted by exiting from the infectious person through nasal discharges
and entering the body of another person through the upper respiratory tract.
Direct exposure of broken skin to secretions from leprosy lesions may also
spread the disease. Most transmission involves long-term exposure or
prolonged close contact with an infected person.
B. Development of the National Leprosy Eradication Program (NLEP)
1.11        A control program was launched by the Government of India (GOI) in
1955. The program at that time was partially sponsored by the Union
Government. As program inputs were limited and the medicines available were
not very effective, leprosy control progressed slowly. In 1978, leprosy
treatment was identified as a high priority at the Alma-Ata conference. The
turning point for the development of the program was in 1983 when multidrug
therapy was introduced and the program was renamed the National Leprosy
Eradication Program (NLEP).
1.12        The NLEP is coordinated by the Deputy Director General of Health
Services at the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MOHFW). Under the
supervision of the State Director of Health Services, each state has a State
Leprosy Officer. Each endemic district has a registered District Leprosy
Society. These societies have been effective in advancing leprosy control
efforts in India. Staffing of the Societies is discussed in para. 3.09. The
District Society is responsible for organizing and implementing the program in
keeping with NLEP policy decisions. The existing infrastructure under the
National Program is shown in Annex 4 and the duties of various personnel
categories are described in Annex 5.
1.13        In rural areas, leprosy services are provided by the Leprosy
Control Unit. In urban areas, these activities are carried out by the Urban
Leprosy Center.  In regions with leprosy endemicity of less than 5 per 1,000,
survey education and treatment centers have been established within the
framework of the existing Primary Health Centers and hospitals. Forty nine
Leprosy Training Centers have also been set up throughout the country to train
medical officers, paramedical workers, non-medical supervisors, laboratory
technicians, and physiotherapists. In addition, a limited number of
reconstructive surgery and leprosy rehabilitation units have been established
to address the physical and vocational needs of patients with deformities.
C. Current Issues in Leprosy Control
1.14        Limited Coverage and Organizational Issues.  As stated previously,
leprosy control progressed very slowly prior to the 1980s because it was based
on dapsone monotherapy. The introduction of MDT brought a new momentum to
control efforts. As of July 1992, however, 66 high-endemicity districts and
all intermediate-endemicity districts remained uncovered by MDT provision



schemes. The Government aims to cover the remaining districts to ensure that
at least 90 percent of the nation's patients receive MDT.
1.15        MDT coverage depends upon the organization of service delivery,
either through vertical or horizontal structures. Vertical or single purpose
service delivery is required in high prevalence areas where the disease burden
(12,000 to 15,000 cases per district) cannot be handled by the regular primary
health care staff as demonstrated by past experience and pilot interventions
in India. In low endemicity areas, however, a vertical program for leprosy
control would be unnecessary. As the disease prevalence declines to moderate
levels, therefore, treatment of leprosy can be integrated into the general
health system.
1.16        Strategically, integration would allow leprosy control to utilize
the full potential of resources and medical skills available in the health
system. Once integration takes place, however, vigilant program monitoring
needs to be maintained to ensure that effective leprosy control does not
deteriorate in scope and function.
1.17        Limited CaRacity to Address Leprosy-related Disability.  The
disability process starts with impairment of anatomical structure or function,
which leads to disability and finally to severe handicap. Deformities are
commonly found in patients with either delayed or incomplete treatment, which
often occurred prior to the introduction of multidrug therapy. Due to the
limited scope of MDT coverage, many patients have already developed
deformities. Fortunately, the success of MDT has led to a considerable
increase in patient self-reporting at early stages of the disease and
consequently, to a significant reduction in the number and degree of
deformities among new cases. For patients who have already developed
deformities, reconstructive surgery, physiotherapy and physical rehabilitation
can correct these deformities and enable them to enjoy a better and more
productive life.
1.18        As deformity causes much of the social stigma associated with
leprosy, disability care is vital to an effective program. The cost-
effectiveness of dealing with leprosy disability is significant. A study in
Tamil Nadu estimates that the elimination of deformity doubles the probability
of gainful employment and more than doubles the annual earnings of those who
are employed. 1/
1.19        In the past, the program has focused on the treatment of the
leprosy "infection" and has undertaken only limited disability care. The
Alma-Ata declaration, however, defined primary health care as promotive,
preventive, curative and rehabilitative services. Provision of physical
rehabilitation is thus recognized as an integral part of an effective health
system. In the future, the NLEP will need to focus more attention on
disability care management to rectify this weakness.
../ Max and Shepherd, 1989.



The Cost-Effectiveness of Leprosy Treatment
The income loss due to deformity from leprosy in India was evaluated
by Max and Shepherd (1989) in a survey of 550 leprosy patients randomly
sampled from a rural and an urban area in the state of Tamil Nadu. Their
analysis showed that elimination of deformity would raise the probability of
gainful employment from 42.2% to 77.6%. The authors' extrapolation to all
of India's estimated 645,000 leprosy patients with deformity suggested that
elimination of deformity would raise earnings by $130 million per year.
Disease Control Priorities in DeveloRing Countries: An Overview, by
Dean Jamison, the World Bank, compares the cost-effectiveness of different
public health interventions.   It clearly shows how the costs involved in
intervention strategies for leprosy are among the lowest when compared to
intervention strategies for other diseases, while returns are high.
In terms of primary prevention of leprosy through the use of targeted
screening, the costs involved are as low as $0.50 per disability adjusted
life year (DALY). In terms of cure of leprosy through the use of multi-drug
therapy with monthly visits to the health center and daily oral medications,
the costs are $7 per DALY, depending on the percentage of cases which are
multi- or pauci-bacillary.
1.20        Social Perceptions of Leprosy.  The suffering of leprosy patients
is aggravated by fear, ignorance, and the social ostracization historically
attached to this disease. As a result, leprosy is not only a serious health
problem, but a socioeconomic problem as well.
1.21        The NLEP has made inroads towards fighting the social stigma
associated with leprosy through health education and public awareness
interventions.  Whereas in the past, leprosy patients were often expelled from
their homes and forced to live in leprosy colonies, Indian society today is
beginning to be more receptive to dealing with leprosy patients and treatment
is generally administered within the home and community. Yet leprosy patients
still face the risk of social discrimination, rejection and loss of
employment.
1.22        Most people identify leprosy with deformities, which, combined
with the poverty characteristic of leprosy patients, are the major cause of
the social stigma attached to the disease. Disabilities occur predominantly
in young adults and continue to worsen throughout life, largely affecting
patients' limbs, eyes and nose. Patients with deformities experience great
difficultly finding and keeping life-partners, and may become social outcasts.
Even after death, some leprosy patients are buried without religious rites or
cremation since villagers are afraid that the germs of leprosy would be spread
with the ashes.



- 6 -
1.23        Limited Effectiveness of Health Education Activities.  To date,
health education activities have relied largely upon formal methods of
dispensing information such as distributing pamphlets and posters. Due to
high illiteracy rates, especially among women, these activities have had only
limited impact in providing information and bringing women into the
information loop. To successfully address public perception of the disease,
non-formal methods of information, education, and communication (IEC) need to
be used, such as health camps with extensive village participation and
activities involving village leaders.
1.24        Gender Concerns.  Underreporting and late detection of leprosy in
females is common. Contributing factors to this condition include the
following: (a) women's attire makes complete skin examination difficult;
(b) women are conditioned to ignore their illnesses until the problem becomes
acute; (c) social stigma of the disease is higher for females since it may be
erroneously associated with promiscuity and greatly decreases girls' prospects
for marriage; and (d) the probability of married women being abandoned on
detection is high, increasing the tendency for females to hide the disease.
1.25        The Government is planning to hire more female health workers in
selected areas and to use non-formal education including messages to encourage
self-identification, self-reporting, self-care and protection of limbs when
cooking.
1.26        Financing Issues.  During the past several years, the Government
of India has spent approximately 220 million rupees on the National Leprosy
Eradication Program each year (Annex 6). This central budget is broken down
into four components: grants to states, anti-leprosy drugs, operational
support to the District Leprosy Societies, and grants to voluntary
organizations. Operational support to the districts has doubled since 1985
reflecting the growth of MDT provision schemes.
1.27        Budgetary allocations, while facilitating progress in leprosy
reduction in India, have been insufficient to make significant headway towards
achieving the NLEP goal of national leprosy elimination by the turn of the
century. Due to limited resources, the NLEP has not been able to extend MDT
coverage to all areas requiring it (para. 1.05). Even in areas covered by
MDT, a lack of resources has led to insufficient provision of disability care,
training and public awareness interventions.
1.28        External and Local Assistance for LeRrosy.  Numerous local and
external organizations are involved in leprosy control activities in India.
The World Health Organization (WHO) has played an important role in the
Government's program by providing technical advice, sponsoring regional and
annual review meetings of State Leprosy Officers and voluntary organizations,
funding fellowships for research and educational activities, and undertaking
independent evaluations of the program.
1.29        Since 1986, the Danish Development Assistance Agency (DANIDA) has
collaborated with GOI in leprosy control. Its successful experience in India
has demonstrated the importance of community-based activities and health



- 7-
education. DANIDA provides assistance to eight districts. 1/ The Swedish
International Development Agency 2/ (SIDA) has been supporting the program
since 1978 under a trilateral agreement with GOI and WHO. This assistance is
being phased out and SIDA is planning to support a rehabilitation project.
NORAD provided support to leprosy control in 3 districts. 2/ Other
international organizations involved with the NLEP include the German Leprosy
Relief Association, the British Leprosy Relief Association (LEPRA), the
Leprosy Mission, American Leprosy Association, the Italian Amici di Raoul
Follereau, and the Damien Foundation. Approximately 150 local volunteer
organizations such as the Gandhi Memorial Leprosy Fund and Hindu Kusht Nivaran
Sangh are currently involved in multi-functional leprosy relief services and
an equal number are involved in smaller activities.
D. Lessons of Exoerience
1.30        There is no past Bank Group experience in financing leprosy
control in India. A/ The proposed assistance, however, would build upon
considerable local and international experience with leprosy (paras. 1.28-
1.29) among which the richest experience is found in India. The main
conclusions to date include: (a) appropriate technology is vital to success;
(b) vertical single purpose infrastructure is necessary for effective service
delivery in high prevalence areas, where the disease burden cannot be handled
by the general health staff, while integration with the regular health care
system is more cost-effective in moderate and low prevalence regions; (c)
disability care must be provided as deformity constitutes the patient's single
most important concern; (d) patient segregation is detrimental, unnecessary,
and hinders the effectiveness of leprosy control activities by breeding
defaulters and deterring patients from seeking treatment; (e) health education
which relies on formal methods in high illiteracy communities has limited
effectiveness; (f) responsibility to deal with the disease must be promoted at
the community level; and (g) surveillance of contacts is necessary because of
the clustering tendency of leprosy.
1.31        Advantages of multidrug theraRy.  Before the 1980s, leprosy
control was based on dapsone therapy, which involves prolonged or life-long
drug intake, making treatment compliance very difficult. Dapsone treatment
can also be ineffective due to the development of drug resistance. As a
result, this approach had little effect on reducing disease prevalence.
/ Salem, Madras and South Arcot (Tamil Nadu); Cuttack and Sambalpur
(Orissa); Durg, Rajnandgaon and Gwalior (Madhya Pradesh).
2/ Krishna (Andhra Pradesh); Chandrapur, Bombay (Maharashtra); Thanjavur
(Tamil Nadu); and Varanasi (Uttar pradesh).
lJ/ Prakasam, Nellore, Kurnool (Andhra Pradesh).
i/ However, the World Bank supported the Special Program for Tropical Disease
Research and Training (TDR) with UNDP and WHO, and this program sponsored the
development and introduction of multidrug therapy in the late 1970s and
early 1980s.



- 8 -
1.32         MDT speeds up the inhibition of M. leprae and reduces the risk of
treatment failure due to dapsone resistance. The standard MDT regimen is
shown in Annex 7. MDT has many advantages: relatively short duration of
treatment, low frequency of toxicity and low relapse rate following treatment
completion. As a result, MDT has led to substantial progress in the treatment
and control of leprosy, reducing the global and Indian caseload.
1.33        As its use has become more widespread, MDT has fostered higher
levels of motivation among health workers and patients, leading to increased
treatment compliance due to patient satisfaction and greater community support
for patients. As MDT coverage throughout the nation has increased, leprosy
prevalence has decreased as shown in Annex 8. MDT has also led to a
substantial decrease in the percentage of children inflicted with leprosy as
well as an increase in the number of villages without any incidence of
leprosy.
1.34        Detriments of Patient Segregation.  Segregation of patients does
not have any public health advantage because lepromatous patients are often
infective for years before signs of disease develop. Historical reviews show
that leprosy started to decline before segregation began in the 19th century,
and even then only a small fraction of patients were segregated at any one
time. Any treatment regimen that includes rifampicin makes patients non-
infectious within two days. Segregation of patients is not only unnecessary,
but hinders the effectiveness of leprosy control activities by breeding
defaulters, deterring patients from seeking treatment, and consequently
facilitating continued spread of the infection from hidden cases.
1.35        Contact Surveillance.  Examination of household contacts is
necessary because leprosy tends to cluster in families. Case detection is
facilitated by health education. Informing people that leprosy is curable
within a short period of time, assuring them that deformities are preventable
with early and complete treatment, teaching them the early signs of leprosy,
and informing them where treatment may be sought are effective methods of
promoting self-reporting. Once patients are identified, health education
needs to be continued to emphasize the importance of regular treatment and
methods of disability prevention, thereby improving treatment compliance.
1.36        Experience of Bank-assisted Projects.  IDA has assisted in
financing seven population projects, one maternal and child health project,
one AIDS control project, and four nutrition projects in India. Most projects
have generally been or are being implemented satisfactorily. However, many of
them suffered initial delays and two recent nutrition projects have started
more slowly and with less attention to quality than planned. Two completed
population projects met most of their project objectives, although they had
little impact on the overall Family Welfare Program. A third completed
population project was quite successful in one state but less in another. The
completed Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project had a positive impact on the nutrition
status of malnourished children. The ongoing Fourth and Fifth Population
Projects are already showing positive results on morbidity and fertility. The
National AIDS Control Project is being implemented in accordance with plans.



- 9 -
1.37        Lessons of experience with Bank-assisted social sector projects in
India, however, suggest that greater attention needs to be paid to financing
and management, beneficiary participation in planning project activities,
supervision of staff, training of personnel, the supply of necessary materials
and sustainability, especially in the present environment of adjustment.
Major impacts have occurred only when significant focus has been placed on
refining program approaches, strategies and technologies.
E. Country Assistance Strategy and Rationale for IDA's Involvement
1.38        General.  IDA aims to assist India in speeding economic
development and poverty alleviation by supporting structural adjustment and
liberalization in key areas such as trade and finance. IDA also aims to
encourage more rapid poverty alleviation by helping India direct greater
attention to human capital issues and improve the coverage, quality,
efficiency and effectiveness of India's human resource development programs.
1.39.       Sectoral.  IDA's strategy for public health in India is to assist
and further advance the Government's policy in controlling major endemic
diseases before the turn of the century, while simultaneously improving
quality, effectiveness and efficiency of health systems in a sustainable
manner. In support of this strategy, the National AIDS Control Project was
brought to the Board in 1992.  IDA is also working with the Government in
preparation of the control of pulmonary tuberculosis, malaria, cataract
blindness, and a model for strengthening state health systems. These health
development interventions would be in addition to our ongoing and future
portfolio in population, nutrition, safe motherhood and child survival. In
this context, IDA places considerable emphasis on the importance of improving
the health status of India's poorer citizens so they and their children may be
more healthy and productive.
1.40        The Proiect and Added Value of IDA's Involvement.  The elimination
of leprosy is one of several priority interventions identified by the Govern-
nment in the health sector. IDA's assistance in leprosy control was also
recommended in a 1992 IDA health financing study. In addition, the proposed
project would link closely with the recent Social Safety Net Sector Adjustment
Credit, which incorporated a focus on endemic disease control including the
Leprosy Program.
1.41        Studies done on leprosy have shown that treating leprosy and
related disabilities has a high social rate of return and should be a high
priority for investment in public health. The importance of helping India
deal with leprosy is heightened by the fact that the disease causes
deformities and by the extreme social stigma attached to affected people.
IDA's assistance would allow the Government to accelerate the elimination of
leprosy. Without IDA assistance in this effort, progress in leprosy
elimination would be slower and a significant pool of 1.2 million people with
leprosy would remain at the turn of the century.
1.42        Collaboration with IDA would bring added value and efficiency to
the program through promotion of an appropriate mix of service delivery
mechanisms, policies and strategies, provision of a wider and more effective
package of services, and expansion of the use of appropriate technology.



- 10 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
2.01        The main objective of the proposed project is to eliminate leprosy
as a public health problem in India by the year 2000 by reducing the
prevalence from 2.4 per 1,000 to 0.1 per 1,000 nationwide. This would be
accomplished by treating 2.2 million people currently with leprosy and 1.8
million new cases, reducing the leprosy prevalence to 100,000 cases
nationwide. The second objective is to reduce the impact of leprosy
disability.
B. Proiect Approach
2.02        The project would finance the incremental cost of a 6-year time
slice of the enhanced national program. IDA would finance 89.7 percent of the
increment, net of taxes, of the enhanced program. Details are given in Table
2.1 below.
C. Technical and Policy Features
2.03         The main features and issues of the existing program were
discussed in paras. 1.11-1.27, notably inadequacies in coverage, capacity to
address disability and effective health education.
2.04        The main features and distinctive technical increments of the
proposed enhanced NLEP are: (a) appropriate mix of service delivery mechanisms
and enhanced efficiency: integration with the primary health care system where
appropriate rather than a solely vertical approach providing a sustainable
method of service delivery, while targeting high and intermediate endemicity
areas and pockets of infection, and increasing coverage; (b) more effective
package of services including disability care; (c) expanded use of appropriate
technology such as multidrug therapy; (d) improved quality of services through
investments in training and increased non-salary inputs; and (e) more
effective community health promotion with increased use of non-formal methods
of health education and attention to gender concerns.
Policies on Leprosy
2.05        Ethical Standards.  The Lepers Act of 1898 provided for the
segregation of people suffering from leprosy. It was enacted on the basis of
limited medical knowledge available at that time. The Act perpetuated the
stigma and affected the dignity of leprosy patients. Humane treatment of
patients is essential for an effective long-term policy for the control of
leprosy. It prompts patients to seek treatment rather than hiding and
spreading the infection. The Government of India indicated its unequivocal
support for the policy of humane treatment of persons affected with leprosy
and has repealed the Lepers Act of 1898 in the Union Territories. All States
have now repealed the Act.



- 11 -
Table 2.1: NLEP Expenditures
(Rs. Million)
Current            Incremental       Six-Year Total
Category of Expediture          (ixarcn           Requirements of      of Enhanced
(Six-Year          the EF-nhanced       Progran
Eiatnte)             Proeram             rora
I. Investment Costs
Civil Works                               55.86                    0.00           55.86
Furniture                                   1.20                   5.87            7.07
Equipment                                 35.76                  174.88          210.64
Vehicles                                  121.80                 109.80          231.60
Materials & Supplies                       45.24                  48.09            93.33
Medicines                                 200.00                 387.12           587.12
Workshops & Training                       55.20                  196.36         251.56
Contractural Services                          -                 1408.76        1,408.76
Medical/Surgical Services                      -                 136.88           136.88
Publicity Services                          6.00                 181.75           187.75
NGO Services                               72.00                  72.00           144.00
Total Investment Costs                      593.06                 2721.51        3,314.57
1X. Recurrent Costs
Honoraria                                  90.00                  54.77           144.77
Vehicle Operation & Maintenance           39.00                   81.09           120.09
Office Operation & Maintenance            46.20                   37.40            83.60
Patients Ex-Gratia Payments                24.00                 210.90          234.90
Hospital Services                          78.00                   0.00           78.00
Salaries                                  438.00                   0.00           438.00
Consumable Materials                       7.59                    15.08          22.67
Total Recurrent Costs                       722.79                  399.24         1,122.03
Total BASELINE COSTS                         1,315.85               3,120.75        4,436.60
29.7%                  70.3%           100.0%
Physical Contingencies                     81.57                  193.44         275.01
Price Contingencies                       202.91                 481.23          684.14
Total PROJECT COSTS                        1,600.62               3,796.13        5,395.75
USS Million Equivalent                                                 97.28
Net of taxes                                                          94.86
IDA Credit as Percentage of Program Increment                        89.65%
Proposed IDA Credit Amount                                             85.04



- 12 -
2.06        Technical Guidelines.  Appropriate program approaches were
recommended within an integrated action plan for eliminating leprosy in GOI's
Report of the Working Group on the Eradication of Leprosy of February 1982 and
in the Directorate General of Health Services Guidelines for Multidrug
Treatment, NLEP, 1989. During negotiations, GOI provided assurances that it
would carry out, and ensure that Project States would carry out, the project in
accordance with the NLEP guidelines.
2.07        It is well recognized globally that it is no longer appropriate to
keep patients on monotherapy in areas where MDT has been introduced. During
negotiations, GOI provided assurances that it would ensure that Project States
would discontinue the use of Dapsone monotherapy within 12 months of the
availability of multidrug therapy in the concerned project districts.
2.08        Delivery of Services to Indigenous PoRulations.  To help prepare for
the project, data has been collected on a block by block basis in addition to
the district-level data, and beneficiary assessments were done of tribal people
in Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh who have been beneficiaries of the leprosy
program. These assessments and other reviews 1/ of leprosy in the country
have generally shown that acceptance, compliance and satisfaction with MDT among
indigenous populations are high. The approach to be followed by the project is
currently used successfully in various tribal areas of India.
2.09        A plan has been developed by GOI for the delivery of outreach
services to tribal populations, that is acceptable to IDA. During negotiations,
GOI provided assurances that it would ensure that the Project States would carry
out the delivery of services in tribal areas in accordance with the plan agreed
with IDA, which inter alia provides for the participation of tribal populations
in planning and designing project activities in their communities.
D. Epidemiological Scenario vith the Enhanced Pro&ram
2.10        The enhanced program would allow significant reductions in both the
prevalence and incidence of leprosy so that by the year 2000, the remaining
leprosy caseload would decrease to approximately 1 per 10,000 or a total of
100,000 cases (Annex 9). Each year thereafter, approximately 35,000 new cases
would appear, the majority of which would be addressed with no major
difficulties. Furthermore, the disease spontaneously dissipates in a gradual
manner when these low levels of prevalence and transmission are reached. The
program's enhancement would thus provide a major thrust towards disease
elimination.
2.11        If the enhanced program is not undertaken, progress in leprosy
control efforts would continue at a slower rate, necessitating persistent
recurrent expenditures. The MOHFW estimates that without the enhanced program,
India would have 1.2 million more people with leprosy than it would have if the
proposed project is successful. With extensive geographical areas remaining
uncovered by MDT, a significant pool of infection and active transmission would
continue, and leprosy would remain a public health problem.
,/  The frequency rates of leprosy are about three times less among tribal
communities compared to non-tribal and less secluded ones.



- 13 -
Expected Leprosy Cases
(in 1,000s)
150 ..~~ ~~......................
1,eo         ............  -WrdxEnhwmdi Progfm
94 W -aI w W 9W 'M
Y_
E.  Prolect Descri2tion
2.12        As stated previously, the project would finance the incremental
cost of a 6-year time slice of the enhanced NLEP. The sections below describe
the particular enhancements that would be the main features of the improved
NLEP. These involve expansion of MDT, integration into the general health
care system where appropriate and strengthening of NLEP supporting mechanisms.
The project builds upon technical strategies recommended by WHO.
EXPANSION OF MULTIDRUG THERAPY THROUGH A VERTICAL STRUCTURE
(USS80.9 million: 59%) 1/
2.13        The project would continue the support of MDT provision in 135
districts selected on the basis of disease endemicity and where this
interventici, has been successfully implemented with a separate cadre of health
personnel, and would also provide services through a temporary vertical
structure in about 66 highly endemic districts (Annex 10) where leprosy
prevalence exceeds 5 per thousand. A main objective in these districts would
be to provide MDT and other leprosy services to existing and newly detected
cases.
2.14        Implementation responsibilities are discussed in paras. 3.09-3.18.
MDT provision would have a preparatory and an implementation phase. The
preparatory phase would include:
(a)   Deployment of health personnel including recruitment, placement
and training of staff in each of the 66 districts. Personnel
would be assigned to the new districts by the District Leprosy
Societies on a contract basis (para 3.29) based on an assessment
of manpower needs for each individual district. An average of 100
/ This and subsequent references to outlays are base cost estimates only.



- 14 -
persons would be required per district. Staffing would include 70
to 80 health workers, 8 non-medical supervisors, 6 drivers, 4
messengers, 5 laboratory technicians, 1 physiotherapist, 1 health
educator and 4 medical officers. The average worker salary would
be Rs. 2,000 per month and Rs. 2,400 for technicians.
(b)   Segmentation of each district by distance to establish service
delivery circuits as shown in Annex 11. Drug delivery points
would be identified with the participation of the beneficiary
community for setting up the clinics/drug delivery points, often
in the open-air. The route would be charted on the basis of
accessibility and convenience of leprosy patients.
(c)   RaRid surveys of unit areas for case identification.  Rapid
surveys would be conducted during the preparatory phase to detect,
screen and register all possible cases for treatment with MDT. To
ensure that female patients are not overlooked, female workers
would be used for survey work as much as possible, females would
be given priority in recruitment, and training would emphasize
identification of females. Identified patients would then be
screened to classify them as multibacillary or paucibacillary and
case cards would be prepared for each patient. Household members
of identified patients would also be examined for the disease.
2.15        The implementation phase would include:
(a)   Service Delivery and Administration of MDT.  Service delivery
would take place at pre-identified facilities and through mobile
units as described above. Once a month, patients would receive
pulse therapy, a supervised intake of medicine. The drug
collection day is referred to as the "pulse day". The use of
drugs packaged in calendar blisterpacks would facilitate the
patients daily intake of medicines and therefore increase
treatment compliance.
(b)   Active Ratient surveillance, whereby leprosy workers seek out
released patients following a set of guidelines to ensure complete
cure and detection of possible relapse.
(c)   Ulcer care and patient health education, which are carried out by
the health personnel concurrently with the administration of MDT.
INTEGRATION OF MULTIDRUG THERAPY INTO THE PRIMARY HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
(USS22.3 million: 16%)
2.16        The project would provide MDT through the existing primary health
care system in about 77 moderately endemic districts (Annex 12) and in pockets
of infection within the remaining low endemicity regions of the country, which
are equivalent to about 20 districts for planning and budgeting purposes. The
prevalence rate in these intermediate-endemicity areas varies between 2 and 5
per thousand or about 5,000 to 6,000 cases per district.



- 15 -
2.17        Such intermediate rates do not justify the establishment of a
vertical structure as management of leprosy cases can be handled by the
general health staff. Leprosy detection and treatment in these areas would be
part of the regular duties and field work of PHC personnel with medical
officers responsible for disease confirmation. Provision of care would follow
the same working methodology and protocols of the vertical program. Service
delivery through the primary health care system has been denominated as the
Modified MDT Plan (MMDT).
2.18        The Chief Medical Officer at the District Level would be
responsible for monitoring implementation of control activities. MDT would be
provided by PHC personnel instead of leprosy workers. In order to strengthen
district capabilities during the intensive control phase, the project would
provide a limited amount of additional staff, hired on a fixed-term basis for
the duration of the project. For each of the 77 moderate endemicity districts
and the 20 pocket districts, this staff would include 1 medical officer, 10 to
17 non-medical supervisors, 2 health education officers, 1 physiotherapist, 1
or 2 laboratory technicians, 2 accountant/store keepers and 1 driver.
2.19        It should be noted that management of leprosy control activities
are part of the primary health care staff's standard training. In order to
facilitate their participation in the integrated program, health staff would
be offered a refresher course on leprosy detection and treatment and given
honoraria for additional work and certificates of merit.
DISABILITY CARE AND PREVENTION (USS7.9 million: 6%)
2.20        For minimizing the impact of leprosy disability in the community,
disablements would be prevented at early stages of disease to the maximum
extent possible. Disability prevention would include: (a) reducing the
occurrence of impairments (first-level prevention); (b) limiting or reversing
disability caused by impairments (second-level prevention); and (c) preventing
disabilities from developing into handicaps (third-level prevention).
2.21        The project would promote disability prevention and care at three
levels. First level prevention would be emphasized to prevent the development
of disability through health education messages and the use of appropriate
materials, such as microcellular rubber sandals which can prevent foot ulcers.
Second-level prevention includes ulcer care, soaking or hydrotherapy routines,
corticosteroid treatment, use of splints and zinc oxide tapes, physical
exercises and regular massage with oil. 1/ Third-level prevention of
handicaps would involve reconstructive surgery for correcting gross
deformities that have already developed. Surgery would be undertaken in
selected health facilities (Annex 13). Provision would be made for 200
reconstructive surgery operations in the project period per district.
Patients with irreversible deformities who are not fit for surgery would
1/ Any locally available oils such as groundnut oil or Neem oil can be used.
Some of the oils have the added benefit of being insect repellents.



- 16 -
receive modulan .1/ aids to allow the use of deformed limbs. The need for
reconstructive surgery is currently declining in new cases and will decrease
further with the expansion of MDT.
PROMOTING PUBLIC AWARENESS AND COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION (USS12.4 million: 9%)
2.22        Promoting public awareness would attenuate old myths and
exaggerated fears of leprosy. Fighting prejudice and fear is an integral part
of the fight against leprosy. The cardinal importance of early treatment
would be stressed in all health messages.
2.23        Information, education and communication (IEC) activities would be
channelled through three main avenues: community awareness camps, mass media,
and extension education to individuals and small groups. These activities,
planned with the findings from existing knowledge, attitudes and practices
studies, would contribute to promoting attitudinal changes and encouraging
self-reporting with a special focus on female patients.
2.24         Orientation of community leaders and community awareness camps -
called Orientation Training Camps (OTC) - would be held in villages according
to a yearly plan to involve the community in leprosy control. This camp
approach is to hold a festival with impromptu performances encouraged, and
healed patients participating as community motivators. This approach promotes
communication not only between the system and the community, but also between
the workers themselves and different communities. Opinion leaders would
include the Panchayats and other local officials, medical officers working in
fields other than leprosy, private practitioners, multipurpose health staff,
Anganwadi workers, teachers, and volunteers of the National Scouts Service.
Promoting community participation ultimately reduces the dependance on a
limited number of outreach health service providers and enhances self-reliance
and responsibility.
2.25        Community awareness camps facilitate the orientation of community
opinion leaders. The purpose of this orientation would be to provide
information about the disease and its treatment, prepare communities to manage
the ongoing care and social rehabilitation of patients with deformities, and
encourage early identification and compliance to drug therapy.
2.26        Mass media would be used to further advance community awareness
about leprosy. Social advertising would be carried out through television,
radio, cinema slides, billboards and wall paintings, and in magazines and
newspapers. Other media outreach would use films, fairs, and festivals. Folk
media services, including drama, song, puppets, dance and poetry would also be
used.
2.27        Extension education would be carried out by both health educators
and health workers to reinforce awareness and encourage appropriate behavioral
modifications. Education activities would target patients, their families and
J/ Paste which is molded around patients limbs then hardened. Modulan is
very effective in allowing patients to use utensils and simple working
tools.



- 17 -
their communities. For the patient's family, education would aim to ensure
completion of treatment, and to promote cooperation in contact surveys and
social acceptance of the patient. For the community, the objective is to
reduce the social stigma and facilitate early detection. Patient education
would include instructions for adhering to drug treatment and surveillance,
performing physiotherapy exercises, and early reporting of reactions. Staff
would also provide patients with counseling and encouragement for social
rehabilitation. In all of these activities, cured patients would serve as
spokespeople for the effectiveness of leprosy treatment. Education kits would
be used by health workers and would include attractively designed and pre-
tested materials such as flip charts, photographs of the signs of leprosy,
diagnostic cards, information pamphlets, comics or story books, and picture
books for non-literates. 'Child-to-child' health promotion would be enhanced
and children would learn how to examine each other for leprosy skin patches
and to inform friends and family about the disease. This would contribute to
creating community volunteers.
ENHANCING SKILLS AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT (USS12.6 million: 9%)
2.28        The project would provide short term training to 160,000 persons
as summarized in Annex 14. The training strategy calls for initial training
to be conducted by mobile training teams, each consisting of three leprosy
specialists. These experts would be oriented in a three-day workshop at the
national level.
2.29        Training of NLEP staff in high-endemicity districts would take
place in the first two years of implementation. The following NLEP staff
would receive orientation in each district: 80 paramedical workers, 16 non-
medical supervisors, 5 medical officers, 1 District Leprosy Officer, 5
laboratory technicians, 1 physiotherapist, 1 health educator, and 1 District
Consultant. These staff members would be divided into two groups of 50 for
orientation. This orientation would consist of a 5-day course focusing on
identification and standards of practice for MDT conducted by the mobile
training teams.
2.30        Beginning in the fourth year of the project, training of PHC staff
would be undertaken to facilitate the integration of leprosy control
activities into the regular health services. Mobile training teams would
conduct 5-day refresher courses for medical officers of the primary health
centers. As leprosy is part of the basic curriculum studied by all medical
officers, these refresher courses would serve to update their information. In
addition, specialized training in ulcer care and patient management would be
given as well as instructions for training multipurpose workers in leprosy
activities. In the fifth year of the project, the medical officers would
conduct 2-day training sessions for the multipurpose workers of the primary
health centers to instruct them in their role in leprosy control.
2.31        Training of primary health care staff in intermediate-endemicity
districts would be held for medical officers of Primary Health Centers and
district-level NLEP officials. District level officials, including the Chief
Medical Officer and the District Leprosy Officer, would undergo orientation at
district headquarters. Medical officers would participate in a 5-day training
session conducted by the mobile training units which would update them on MDT



- 18 -
implementation and enable them to train the multipurpose staff working in
their districts. They would receive guidelines on MDT and manuals for
multipurpose staff in English and local languages. Training of multipurpose
workers would take place at the district headquarters.
2.32        Training of primary health care staff would also be undertaken in
the geographic pockets of infection which contain 7 percent of the nation's
leprosy caseload. In these pockets, the mobile training teams would orient
district level officers and the PHC medical officers, who would then train the
multipurpose staff. It would not be necessary to train all of the Medical
Officers in the 177 districts within which these pockets are located.
2.33        In the 135 high-endemicity districts where MDT is already being
provided under a vertical infrastructure, NLEP staff have already been trained
in MDT delivery. These staff members would only receive training in
disability care and prevention.
2.34        Central coordination and monitoring of national control activities
are adequate under the current work load. However, in order to cope with the
proposed enhanced activities, GOI is planning to strengthen the Central
Coordination Cell and WHO is planning to provide additional technical
assistance to its current ongoing support. The project would also provide
support to develop training capabilities and outreach patient care activities
in the main Leprosy Training and Research Institutes in Raipur, Chengalput,
Agra, Aska and Gouripur. Other institutional development inputs are included
with other project components discussed previously.
2.35        In order to implement the project, IDA proceeds would be used to
finance the following inputs: contractual services for health personnel, anti-
leprosy medicines, vehicles, medical and office equipment, medical material
and supplies, publicity services, medical/surgical services for reconstructive
surgery, training and workshops, incremental vehicle operating and maintenance
costs and honoraria.
III. COSTS. FINANCING. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Costs
3.01        Summary of Costs.  The total cost of the enhanced program over a
six-year period, including import duties and taxes, is estimated at about Rs.
5,395.7 million or US$138.3 million equivalent. Taxes and duties would be
about Rs. 133.3 million or US$3.4 million equivalent. The breakdown of costs
by component and by categories of expenditure is summarized in Tables 3.1 and
3.2 respectively. Detailed costs by component, categories of expenditure, and
year are given in Annex 15.



- 19 -
Table 3.1:  Cost by CooRonent
Raap  ih_u)                            altS Su                               Tdal
Cu,psnat                                                                                             Fain.        SW
LomI     Forp            Tha    f ae         FVmim         Tam  z_            C
Vertical MultI-Drug Therpy                           2320.9      315.99      2636.89       71.19       9.69      80.89           12        59
Integrtion of Multi-Drug Therapy thru PHC            638.45       86.92       725.37       19.58       2.67      22.25           12         16
Disability Case & PreventIon                         202.69       56.53       259.21       6.22         1.73      7.95           22         6
Promoting Public Awwreness                           381.48       24.46       405.94        11.7       0.75      12.45            6         9
EnhrnclngSkillss& Instltuiona  Development           386.35       22.33       409.18       11.85        0.7      12.55            6         9
Tolal BASELINE COSTS                                     3929.85      506.74      4436.59     120.55       15.54     136.09           11       100
Physical Contingencies                               230.72       44.29       275.01       7.08         1.36      8.44           16         6
Price Contingencies                                  527.06      157.08       684.14       -7.56        1.31      -.26          -21         -5
ToWa PROJECT COSTS                                       4687.63       708.1      5395.74     120.06       18.21     138.27           13       102
NOTE: Inclusive of taxe and duties estimated at USS3.44 million
Table 3.2:  Costs by Categories of ExRenditure
A,  MldN)                            ( 1111U1I0.)           %            % Tdal
Calegory of Expaidlure                                                                                      VFr'D        Be"
LAME      Far111         TOW        Lam       Imla         TOW  Euidma        Cab
1. Invea    Cost
Civil Woi*s                                           50.83        5.03        55.86        1.56       0.15       1.71            9          1
Furniture                                              6.43        0.64         7.07        0.2        0.02       0.22            9         0
Equipment                                             147.45      63.19       210.64        4.52        1.94      6.46           30         5
Vehicles                                             162.12       69.48        231.6       4.97        2.13        7.1           30         5
Materials & Supplies                                  #8.66        4.67        93.33       2.72        0.14       2.86            5         2
Medicine                                             352.27      234.85       587.12       10.81        7.2      18.01           40         13
Worksuhops                                            82.09           0        82.09       2.52           0       2.52            0         2
Contractnral Services                               1338.32       70.44      1408.76      41.05        2.16      43.21            5        32
Medical/Surgical Services                            116.34       20.53        136.88       3.57       0.63        4.2           15         3
Training                                              169.47          0        169.47        5.2          0        5.2            0         4
Publicity Servioes                                   168.98       18.77       187.75       5.18        0.5S8      5.76           10         4
NGO Services                                            144           0          144       4.42           0       4.42            0         3
TotJ Invesment Cods                                    2826.97      487.59      3314.56      86.72       14.96     101.67           15        75
il. Recurret Cods
Honoraria                                            144.77           0        144.77      4.44           0       4.44            0         3
Vehicle Operation&Maintenmnc                         102.08       18.01       120.09       3.13        0.55       3.68           15         3
Ofice Operation & Maintenance                          83.6           0         83.6       2.56           0       2.56            0         2
Patients Ex-Gtbii Payments                            234.9           0        234.9       7.21           0       7.21            0         5
Hospital Services                                        78           0           78        2.39          0       2.39            0         2
Salaries                                                438           0          438       13.44          0      13.44            0         10
Consumable Materials                                  21.54        1.13        22.67        0.66        0.03       0.7            5          1
Todl iRewur    Cas                                     1102.88       19.15      1122.03      33.83        0.59      34.42            2        25
Toal BASELINE COSTS                                      3929.85      506.74      4436.59     120.55       15.54     136.09           11       100
Physical Contingenides                               230.72       44.29       275.01        7.08        1.36      8.44           16         6
Price Contingencies                                  527.06      157.08       684.14       -7.56        1.31      -6.26         .21         5
TOaW PROJECT COSTS                                       4667.63      708.10      539.73       120.06       18.21    133.27           13       102



- 20 -
3.02        Contingency Allowances.  Costs include physical contingencies
(US$5.2 million) estimated at 10% of physical expenditures and 5% for
contractual services and maintenance, and price contingencies at the following
rates: foreign costs 3.1% from Calendar Year (CY) 93 through CY2000; and local
costs 8.0% in CY93, 7.0% in CY94, 6.0% in CY95, 5.5% in CY96, 5% in CY97 to
CY2000.
3.03        Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange
component of US$18.2 million is calculated on the basis of estimated foreign
exchange proportions as follows: medicines: 30%; medical materials and supplies:
5%; vehicles: 30%; equipment: 30%; medical/surgical services: 15%; contractual
services: 5%; publicity services: 10%; vehicle operation and maintenance: 15%.
B. Financing Plan
3.04        The project would be a centrally sponsored scheme.  The Government
of India expenditure on leprosy has been about Rs. 1,600.6 million over the last
six years. The total cost of the enhanced program for the next 6 years would be
Rs. 5,395.8 million (US$138.3 million equivalent). IDA would finance 61.5% of
the total cost of the program over the next six years, which is equivalent to
89.7% of the increment or US$85.0 million, net of taxes, of the enhanced program
over the program of the past six years. GOI would finance 38.5% of the total
program cost or US$53.3 million equivalent. This would include all taxes,
estimated at US$3.4 million equivalent. The NLEP finances a broad range of
activities. As noted earlier, the proceeds of the IDA credit of US$85 million
equivalent would be used to finance contractual services for health personnel,
anti-leprosy medicines, vehicles, training and workshops, medical and office
equipment, medical material and supplies, publicity services, medical/surgical
services and incremental vehicle operating costs and honoraria.
C. Sustainability
3.05          The additional recurrent costs generated by the enhanced
interventions would average Rs. 81 million per year (US$2.1 million equivalent).
This would be only 3 percent of the present Union recurrent expenditure (Rs.
2,660 million) on health annually. At project completion, there would be a net
reduction in annual expenditures on leprosy due to the completion of the
intensive phase of control activities by the Government and the dissipation of
the leprosy caseload.
3.06        GOI has expressed its intent to improve expenditures on health and
has done so in its latest budget for FY94. The States contribute to the NLEP
mainly by maintaining the current infrastructure. By virtue of the design of
the project, and the fact that it is centrally sponsored, the project would not
have an impact on the recurrent costs of State expenditures. Many project
assisted services would also be contractual, to limit long-term liabilities on
the Government. Moreover, the project would start the transition from a
vertical monopurpose service to an integrated delivery through the general
health system in areas where the disease burden has declined to moderate levels,
which will reduce costs by utilizing existing resources to a greater extent. At
negotiations, GOI provided assurances that it would by December 31, 1997,
discuss with IDA options for the future utilization of the staff assigned to the



- 21 -
NLEP, duly taking into account the findings of the mid-term review of project
implementation.
3.07        MDT and New Treatments.  The average cost of MDT per patient per
year in India is currently Rs. 100 (US$3.00 equivalent), with about 75 percent
of all patients undergoing treatment for 6 months and the remaining 25 percent
requiring two years of therapy for the multibacillary form of the disease. At
present, WHO is undertaking large scale field trials of a new antibiotic
treatment consisting of a combination of two drugs: Ofloxacin and Rifampicin.
The main advantage of this treatment is its proposed shortened duration of only
four weeks. The current cost of this treatment is Rs. 800 (US$24.5) per patient
per course.
3.08        So far, MDT has proven worldwide to be the most effective treatment
for leprosy, while the new treatment is still in an experimental stage. The
project therefore would use MDT. However, the project would provide flexibility
to adapt to this new treatment and any other state of the art developments which
may take place during the project period. Such decisions would be based on
technological advances and cost effectiveness.
D. Implementation
3.09        Project implementation would be coordinated by the Central Leprosy
Coordination Unit of the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare in Delhi.
The project would be implemented through the existing health care infrastructure
of the Union and State Departments of Health, and the District Leprosy
Societies.
(a)   Role of the Union Government.  GOI would coordinate the project,
monitor its progress and observe the implementation of central
policies and technical guidelines. It would carry out procurement
of multidrug therapy, medical equipment, and mass media services.
GOI would pass to the States and Union Territories (UTs) the goods
procured and would bear the entire project costs borne by the States
and UTs.
(b)   State 1/ Role.
(i) The State Departments of Health 2/ would be responsible for
programming and monitoring implementation of project activities in
the States. The Departments of Health are represented on the
District Leprosy Societies discussed below. A condition of
disbursement for expenditures incurred by 13 States, in which major
project components would be implemented, would be that such States
would furnish to IDA a Letter of Undertaking, with form and content
acceptable to IDA, which would outline how each State would carry
its part of the project in accordance with the guidelines and
policies of the NLEP.
J/  State - State/Union Territory.
2/ Health is a State subject under the constitution of India.



- 22 -
Mii) District LeRrosy Societies. Implementation at the district
level would be managed by the District Leprosy Societies
(para. 1.12) according to State work plans that are in general
conformity with the priorities and strategies defined by GOI. The
Societies are chaired by the District Collector, and include the
Chief Medical Officer as Vice Chairman, the District Leprosy Officer
as Secretary, Deputy Director of Social Welfare and NGO
Representative. The Societies would be responsible for engaging the
contractual services of health workers, organizing medical/surgical
services for reconstructive surgery, procuring local publicity
services, vehicles, office equipment, disability and health
education supplies and supportive medicines. During negotiations,
GOI provided assurances that it would obtain or ensure that Project
States would obtain, from each District Leprosy Society which
carries out the project, an undertaking, with form and content
acceptable to IDA, regarding the carrying out of the project by such
Society.
3.10        Proiect Management.  Since the existing program management framework
of NLEP has proven effective in advancing leprosy control in India, the same
organizational set-up would be maintained at the Center for the proposed project
while providing for the institutional strengthening of the Central Coordination
Cell in order to deal with the additional activities. The Deputy Director
General of Health Services for Leprosy would be the Project Director and would
be responsible for overseeing the overall implementation of the project, liaison
with IDA, allocation of funds to States and District Leprosy Socieries, central
procurement, maintenance of accounts, updating annual work plans in consultation
with the States and annual progress review.
3.11        At the field level, the organizational approach would be as follows:
MMEP Services             Intearated General Servici.
State Lepromy Officer        Director of Health Services
District Lepromy Officer     Chief Medical Officer
Medical Officer
Leprosy Control Unit         M. A.
per 500,000 people
Mon-Medical Supervisor        Medical Officor
per 100,000 people            Cowunity Health Center
per 100,000 people
Paramedical Worker            Medical Officor
per 20,000 to 25,000 people  PrLmry Health Center
per 30,000 people
3.12        Status of PreRaration.  Preparation is in an advanced stage and new
interventions have been initiated in 18 districts (para. 3.14). Project
preparation was initiated by the Government of India and the States in 1991 and
was coordinated by the Deputy Director General of Health Services of the Union
Ministry of Health & Family Welfare. WHO and DANIDA were consulted and provided
technical assistance. SIDA assisted in updating leprosy registers and rapid
surveys in selected districts of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa
and Kerala. Special teams from Andhra Pradesh, Bombay Leprosy Project and the
Leprosy Mission assisted in the State of Bihar.



- 23 -
3.13        Technical guidelines, organizational plans, training plans,
recruitment modality of health personnel, list of institutions for medical/
surgical services, health information modalities, lists of equipment and
supplies, and monitoring indicators have been prepared. Standard bid documents
for ICB would be used by the Directorate General of Supply & Disposal for the
procurement of calendar blisterpack multidrug therapy.
3.14        To initiate the project, GOI sanctioned in January 1993, the
introduction of MDT schemes in 18 new high endemicity districts in the States of
Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh and funds were released to their District
Leprosy Societies. The districts are Gonda, Gorakhpur, Basti, Fatehpur, Etawah,
Rampur, Shahjahanpur, Lucknow, Unnao, Bareilly, Banda, Hamirpur, Jalaun and
Badaun in Uttar Pradesh; and Jabalpur, Khandwa, Satna and Chattarpur in Madhya
Pradesh.
3.15        Center and State Coordination for Start-Up.  The States/UTs have
been involved in the NLEP to date and in the preparation of intensified
activities. The strategy of the proposed project was reviewed at the Health
Secretaries level during a health coordination meeting held by the Union and
State Health Secretaries on January 20 and 21, 1993.
3.16        Coordination with other Program Participants.  A coordination
meeting was held on February 3, 1993, between IDA's Appraisal Mission and
Representatives of GOI, DANIDA, SIDA, NORAD and WHO to review the proposed
plans. It was agreed to collaborate during the annual and mid-term reviews of
the project. Various NGOs were also consulted during project preparation.
3.17        Non-Governmental Organizations.  The NLEP would continue to provide
support to NGOs for leprosy control activities. NGOs have broad access to the
communities in which they are located, and are often considered as 'trusted
insiders.' NGO activities include case detection, case treatment, staff
training, health education, disability prevention and rehabilitation training as
well as reconstructive surgery.
3.18        Past assistance to NGOs by the Union Government was about Rs. 72
million over six years. GOI would provide an additional equal amount
aggregating at Rs. 144 million during the enhanced program period but would
avoid even larger increases of NGO funding so as not to displace private fund-
raising efforts.
E. Monitoring
3.19        Project Monitoring.  Epidemiological indicators which would be
monitored have been agreed with the Government. Solid baseline data is already
available. Progress and outcome indicators can be measured. Essential
monitoring indicators are discussed in Annex 16 and include rates of prevalence,
detection, cure and relapse, disabilities among newly detected cases and MDT
coverage. Monitoring of implementation progress would include the positioning
of human infrastructure, the supply of drugs, vehicles and materials. In
addition to field visits, monthly meetings would be held at the district level
for medical officers and at the unit level for paramedical workers to discuss
monthly reports, achievements and arising issues. During negotiations, the
Government of India provided assurances that it would review, and ensure that



- 24 -
Project States would review with IDA by December 31 each year, the progress of
project implementation over the preceding twelve months and an annual work plan
for the next twelve months.
3.20        A Mid-Term Review would be carried out in the fourth year of project
implementation. The WHO and principal donor agencies would be invited to
participate in reviewing strategic, operational and technical aspects of the
project. GOI and IDA would also review managerial and financial aspects of the
project. A protocol for the evaluation would be developed six months prior to
the review in collaboration with WHO. The findings and recommendations of the
mid-term review would assist GOI in future programming of control interventions.
During negotiations, the Government of India provided assurances that it would
carry out, and ensure that Project States would carry out with IDA, a mid-term
review of project implementation, prior to July 31, 1997, and would take into
account comments and suggestions made by IDA at such review during project
implementation thereafter.
3.21        IDA Supervision Plan.  A main strategy for field supervision would
be to compare project implementation issues arising in vertical service delivery
settings with those of the integrated model. IDA supervision teams would
collaborate with WHO visiting teams and resident technical experts. WHO would
also share with IDA its findings of the yearly NLEP review. Supervision
missions would liaise with major NLEP participants, who would be invited to
participate in the mid-term review. The World Bank Resident Mission would
participate in (a) liaising with the Government and providing operational
support; and in (ii) procurement, disburseme-ts and auditing matters and follow-
up. The skills required during supervision are shown in Annex 17.
F. Disbursements
3.22        Disbursement Percentages.  The IDA Credit would be disbursed against
100% of foreign CIF and local ex-factory costs and 80% of other local costs of
anti-leprosy medicines, medical and office equipment, materials and supplies,
and vehicles; 100% of medical/surgical services, training and workshops; 85% of
contractual services and publicity services; and 50% of incremental operation of
vehicles and honoraria.
3.23        Disbursement Profile.  The proposed credit would be disbursed over
seven years, which conforms with the standard profile of IDA-assisted
population, health and nutrition projects in India. The IDA-assisted
interventions are expected to be completed on September 30, 1999, and the Credit
closed on March 31, 2000. Annex 18 shows forecasts of expenditures and
disbursements.
3.24        Reguired Documentation.  Disbursements for contractual services,
training, medical/surgical services, publicity services and goods under
contracts valued less than US$100,000 equivalent, and for incremental .1/
J/ The term incremental operation and maintenance costs of vehicles means
the cost incurred by a Project State for the operation and maintenance
of vehicles for the purposes of implementing the Project in excess of
the costs under the NLEP in FY92-93.



- 25 -
vehicle operating costs and honoraria, would be made against statements of
expenditure (SOEs). Documentation in support of SOEs would be retained by the
States and the District Leprosy Societies for expenditures incurred by the
States, and by the Union MOHFW for expenditures incurred by the Center. This
documentation would be subject to annual audit and made available for review by
IDA supervision missions. All other disbursements would be made against fully
documented withdrawal applications.
3.25        Special Account.  In order to accelerate disbursements and to
provide for direct payment of eligible expenditures, a Special Account would be
maintained in the Reserve Bank of India with an authorized allocation of US$3.0
million, equivalent to three months of estimated disbursements.
3.26        Retroactive Financing.  In order to facilitate a timely project
start, retroactive financing up to US$3.0 million equivAlent, or 3.5 percen. of
the proposed credit, would be provided to cover eligible expenditures incurred
after March 31, 1993. Procurement arrangements, as well as the purposes for
which the items would be used, were reviewed and found appropriate.
G. Procurement
3.27        Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3 which
summarizes the NLEP elements and their estimated costs and proposed methods of
procurement. The Directorate General of Supply and Disposal (DGS&D) would
handle bulk procurement of anti-leprosy medicines and medical equipment under
ICB and LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Bank Standard Bidding Documents would
be used. Calendar blisterpack anti-leprosy medicines estimated to cost US$13.8
million would be procured through ICB procedures. Other anti-leprosy medicines
estimated at US$5.3 million would be procured under local shopping procedures in
packages under US$100,000 by GOI through the Medical Services Organization (MSO)
of the Union Ministry of Health. Supportive medicines, such as ointments,
estimated at US$1.9 million would be procured by the District Leprosy Societies
through off the shelf local shopping in packages valued below US$10,000
equivalent each.
3.28        Medical equipment aggregating at US$2.0 million would be procured
through LCB procedures acceptable to IDA in contracts valued below US$200,000
equivalent each. Office and medical equipment estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of US$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$5.3
million equivalent, would be procured under local shopping procedures.
Materials and supplies estimated at US$1.5 million equivalent would be procured
under local shopping procedures in packages below US$100,000 equivalent each.
Other materials and supplies including disability care materials aggregating at
US$1.7 million equivalent would be procured through off the shelf local shopping
in packages valued below US$50,000 equivalent each.



- 26 -
Table 3.3: Procurement Arrangements
(USS MLlILon)
PR        t Metd
lnmsdona              lc
Compettve        Competite
Biddina          Biddin         Othw       N.B.F.      Toal
Equipment                                             -               2.00          5.33         -        7.33
(1.30)        (4.30)                (6.60)
Vehicle                                              --                             7.89                  7.89
(2.36)               (2.36)
Materials & Suppie                                   -                 -            3.23         -3.23
(2.90)               (2.90)
Medidne.                                            13.77              -            7.16        -         20.93
(12.39)                         (6.44)                (13.84)
Workshops & Training                                                   -            3.17        -         S.17
(8.17)                (3.17)
ContrActural Service                                 -                 -           37.97                  37.97
(32.15)               (32.15)
Mecal/SurgIcal Svic                                  -                 -            4.53        -         4.53
(4.53)               (4.53)
PubLidty SevIcss                                                                    6.13                  6.18
(5.22)               (5.22)
Honoraria                                            -                 -            4.51        -         4.51
(2.25)                (2.25)
Vehicle Opertion & Maintenance                       -                 -            3.99        -         3.99
(2.00)                (2.00)
Civil Works                                                                          .         1.87       1.37
Furniture                                            -                 -             -         0.24       0.24
NGO Servie.                                                                                    4.74       4.74
Office Opeadtion & Maintenance                       -                 -             -         2.75       2.75
Patent Ex-Gmdaa                                                        .                       6.24       6.24
Hoepital Sv                                                            .             .         2.55       2.55
Salari                                               . e-                                     14.39       14.39
Consumable Materials                                                   .             .         0.78       0.7S
Total                                                    13.77             2.00          3.%96      33.56      133.29
(12.39)           (1.30)        (70.32)      -        (35.00)
Noter:   - Ftgure. in pawnthesis are the rerpective *mounts financed by IDA.
For eae of reference, the categoriee against which IDA procee4d would be dibbursed are shown on the upper port of the bk.
N.B.F.: NotiBank Fanced.



- 27 -
3.29        Contractual services of health personnel participating in the
project (US$38 million), medical/surgical services for reconstructive surgery
(US$4.5 million), and publicity services (US$6.2 million) would be procured on
the basis of criteria and procedures satisfactory to IDA. Contractual services
would be advertised by the District Leprosy Societies in newspapers and with
local self-government institutions and voluntary agencies. The selection
Committee would consist of the State Leprosy Officer, Chief Medical Officer,
District Leprosy Officer and NLEP Consultant. Services would be engaged on
contract basis through letters of appointment issued by the District Leprosy
Society to the individual worker. The contracts clearly specify the terms and
conditions of the appointment. Appointments would be made for a period of three
yea'rs an(. "ould be renewable one year at a time, subject to satisfactory
performance. Fixed payments in Rs. would be made by the District Leprosy
Society on a monthly basis. The fixed-term assignment would not confer any
right for regular public sector appointment. Services can be terminated with
one month notice on either side. GOI has confirmed that the arrangements for
engaging these contractual services are consistent with applicable laws and
regulations governing the employment of contractual labor.
3.30        Publicity services for mass media would be procured by GOI and the
States directly from the Ministry of Information's radio and television
stations. The rates that would be used would not exceed the standard rate of
charges to other advertisers. Folk media and community awareness and
orientation camps (para. 2.24-2.27) would be procured by the District Leprosy
Societies through direct contracting from local artists. Advertising through
cinema slides slots, billboards and newspapers would be procured through direct
contracting. All publicity services contracts are estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 equivalent each.
3.31        Medical/surgical services for reconstructive surgery estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of US$50,000 per contract would be procured by the
District Leprosy Societies under contracts awarded to designated health care
facilities (Annex 13) selected for their suitability to perform such services.
Provision has been made for 200 operations per district in endemic areas during
the project period with a flat rate of Rs. 2,300 per case.
3.32        In order to facilitate project start-up, the proceeds of the IDA
Credit would be used to procure 30 percent (US$2.4 million or about 320
vehicles) of the total NLEP vehicle requirements of about US$7.9 million, under
local shopping procedures in packages below US$100,000 equivalent each.
Vehicles would be promptly needed to start service delivery and would be
dispersed throughout remote areas of the country. The remaining balance of
US$5.5 million or 70 percent of the total new and replacement vehicle
requirements would be borne by the Government.
3.33        For comparing foreign and local bids in ICB, qualifying domestic
suppliers would be allowed a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of
customs duty applicable to competing imports or 15% of CIF price, whichever is
lower. Items procured under ICB procedures, as well as the first three LCB
contracts for equipment would be subject to IDA's prior review.



- 28 -
H. Accounting and Auditin2
3.34        Expenditures incurred by the Center and by each participating State
and Union Territory would be subject to the normal GOI and the participants'
accounting and auditing procedures, with the added requirement that MOHFW would
maintain a separate account for the Project. At the Center, State, and District
Leprosy Societies, a record of project transactions would be maintained with
appropriate support documentation for the transactions.
3.35        Audits of Central, State and District Leprosy Society accounts, the
Special Account and financial statements of che project including a separate
opinion on Statements of expenditures (SOE), would be subject to normal GOI
accounting and auditing procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. Documentation
supporting SOEs would be maintained at least one year after the completion of
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal was made. The
Special Account would show all withdrawal requests disbursed, amounts advanced
and reimbursed by IDA, and balance at the end of each accounting period. A
Central consolidated audit report would be submitted to IDA not later than nine
months after the end of each financial year. The audit will cover all project
expenditures until such time as the Credit has been closed.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.01        The project would enable India to eliminate leprosy as a national
public health problem by the turn of the century. The project would eliminate
the disease in 2.2 million people currently with leprosy and in 1.8 million new
cases, treating a total of 4 million people. The project would decrease the
occurrence of disability, alleviating human suffering, economic loss and the
social burden and stigma of the disease. Leprosy control generates high
positive externalities. The project would have a high social return in terms of
healthy life years saved.
4.02        Program Objective Categories: Poverty AsRects.  The impact of
leprosy is highest in the poorer segments of the population since they have the
least access to health care. The project would reach underprivileged
communities, and of the 4 million people to be affected by the project, it is
estimated that 2.4 million people or about 60 percent would be living below GOI
poverty line.
4.03        Women In Development AsRects.  The project would benefit about 1.6
million women and reduce the current gaps in the coverage and treatment of women
with leprosy. It would emphasize non-formal health education at the grass roots
level, and would highlight the identification of female patients. The benefits
of health information, education and communication would contribute to reducing
social discrimination affecting women. Indigenous PoRulations. In the high
endemicity districts where outreach services would be expanded, the tribal
population is 9 million people (6.5%) out of a total of 139.4 million. These
tribal groups would benefit from the project and would participate in planning
the delivery of outreach services and multidrug circuits in their communities.
In intermediate endemicity districts, where leprosy control is integrated in the



- 29 -
general health system with no outreach services, the tribal population is 13.7
million (9.1%) out of a total of 150 million people.
B. Risks
4.04        There are some risks to the project.  First, there is a risk that
the Union Government may not be able to facilitate local implementation of all
control activities. This will be addressed by up-front State commitment to
project implementation through Letters of Undertaking, by providing the States
with Leprosy Consultants, and by encouraging continuous State involvement in
planning and evaluating project activities through regular workshops and
increased local training. The project would foster local involvement by further
developing the implementation role of the District Leprosy Societies, which have
been effective in advancing leprosy control efforts in India. Second, there is
a risk that primary health care staff may not be sufficiently motivated to
fulfill leprosy responsibilities in the integrated model of service delivery.
This would be addressed by selecting moderate prevalence areas for this model of
service delivery, and through the provision of inservice training and incentives
for performance. Third, there are the usual risks of poor use of project
investments by a Borrower whose implementation record is mixed. These will be
addressed by the careful preparation of implementation arrangements and the use
of WHO resident technical assistance for project monitoring.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01        At negotiations, the Government of India provided assurances that it
would:
(a)   carry out, and ensure that Project States would carry out, the
project in accordance with the Guidelines of the Directorate General
of Health Services for Multidrug Treatment, NLEP, 1989 (para. 2.06);
(b)   ensure that Project States would discontinue the use of Dapsone
monotherapy within 12 months of the availability of multidrug
therapy in the concerned project districts (para. 2.07);
(c)   ensure that the Project States would carry out the delivery of
services in tribal areas in accordance with the plan agreed with
IDA, which inter alia provides for the participation of tribal
populations in planning and designing project activities in their
communities (para. 2.09);
(d)   discuss with IDA by December 31, 1997, options for the future
utilization of the staff assigned to the NLEP, duly taking into
account the findings of the mid-term review (para. 3.06);
(e)   obtain or ensure that Project States would obtain, from each
District Leprosy Society which carries out the project, an
undertaking, with form and content acceptable to IDA, regarding the
carrying out of the project by such Society (para. 3.09);



- 30 -
(f)   review, and ensure that Project States would review with IDA by
December 31 each year, the progress of project implementation over
the preceding twelve months and an annual work plan for the next
twelve months (para. 3.19); and
(g)   carry out, and ensure that Project States would carry out with IDA,
a mid-term review of project implementation, prior to July 31, 1997,
and would take into account the comments and suggestions made by IDA
at such review and during project implementation thereafter (para.
3.20).
5.02        A condition of disbursement for expenditures incurred by 13 States,
in which major project components would be implemented, would be that such
States would furnish a Letter of Undertaking, with form and content acceptable
to IDA, and would outline how each State would carry its part of the project in
accordance with the guidelines and policies of the National Leprosy Eradication
Program (para. 3.09).
5.03        Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for a credit of SDR 60.0 million (US$85.0 million equivalent) to
India at standard IDA terms with 35 year maturity.



- 31 -                         ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
PREVALENCE RATE OF LEPROSY BY STATE IN DESCENDING ORDER
(per 1,000)
STATE/UNION TERRITORY                    1987                1991
Bihar                                     6.2                  5.4
Orissa                                    7.9                  5.1
Lakshadweep                              10.1                  3.9
A & N Islands                             4.9                  3.6
Andhra Pradesh                            8.6                  3.2
Daman & Diu                                -                   3.0
Uttar Pradesh                             4.3                  2.6
Pondicherry                              11.7                 2.5
Madhya Pradesh                            3.9                  2.4
Kerala                                    3.0                  2.2
D & N Haveli                              1.1                  2.2
Tamil Nadu                                7.6                  2.1
Maharashtra                               5.5                  2.1
West Bengal                               5.2                  1.7
Nagaland                                  2.3                  1.6
Arunachal Pradesh                         2.3                  1.5
Chandigarh                                1.3                 1.4
Tripura                                   2.7                  1.1
Karnataka                                 3.9                 0.9
Goa                                       1.9                 0.9
Assam                                     0.9                 0.8
Himachal Pradesh                          1.1                 0.8
Jammu & Kashmir                           1.2                  0.8
Gujarat                                   1.0                 0.6
Meghalaya                                 1.2                  0.6
Manipur                                   3.8                  0.6
Sikkim                                    1.1                 0.6
Delhi                                     1.6                 0.4
Rajasthan                                 0.5                  0.3
Mizoram                                   1.3                  0.3
Punjab                                    0.2                 0.2
Haryana                                   0.1                  0.1
Weighted National Average                 4.9                  2.4
Source: CSSRL Vol. II, No. 2, July 1992.



- 32 -
Page 2
REGISTERED LEPROSY CASES
STATE/UNION TERRITORY                    CASES ON RECORD - 1991
Bihar                                            462,710
Orissa                                           157,621
Lakshadweep                                          159
A & N Islands                                      1,347
Andhra Pradesh                                   214,235
Daman & Diu                                          192
Uttar Pradesh                                    361,568
Pondicherry                                        1,963
Madhya Pradesh                                   159,850
Kerala                                            65,817
D & N Haveli                                         383
Tamil Nadu                                       118,197
Maharashtra                                      166,619
West Bengal                                      114,349
Nagaland                                           2,030
Arunachal Pradesh                                  1,301
Chandigarh                                           936
Tripura                                            2,706
Karnataka                                         39,470
Goa                                                1,245
Assam                                             18,766
Himachal Pradesh                                   3,957
Jammu & Kashmir                                    6,356
Gujarat                                           24,901
Meghalaya                                          1,394
Manipur                                            1,365
Sikkim                                               225
Delhi                                              4,232
Rajasthan                                         15,549
Mizoram                                              201
Punjab                                             3,291
Haryana                                            1,282
TOTAL                                         1,954,217
Source: CSSRL Vol. II, No. 2, July 1992.



- 33 -
INDIA
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
AGE SPECIFIC INCIDENCE RATES OF LEPROSY IN
HIGHLY ENDEMIC REGION IN INDIA (From Nordeen 1985)
4.00
3.00
200
1.00
0  a  10  16  20 25 30          40      So      so          70+
AC In years



- 34 -
ANNME 3
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
NERVE DAMAGE AND NECHANISMS CAUSING DISABILITY
Damage to the three physiological components of nerves is followed
by anaesthesia, dryness of the skin, and muscular paralysis.  These three
primary factors underlie deformity and disability of the hands and feet in
patients with leprosy because they predispose the affected limbs to misuse.
Ulceration, scar formation and secondary infection ensue, and create a vicious
cycle of events which causes loss of deep tissue and results in disability. A
further cause of nerve damage in lepromatous patients is due directly to
invasion of tissues by M. leprae. The interaction of these eight causes of
disability is summarized below:
I-PRIMARY   SENSORY     AUTONOMIC   MOTOR
NERVE
OAMAGE
Prevented by
Eartv diagnosis   NAESTESIA  ORYNESS    PARALYSIS
Correct/careful
treatment
SECONOARY    J    MISUSEOf HA NDS ANO FEET
COMPLICATIONS
Prevented by.
Taking care -   .                   +
educatd     Injuries    Fissures    Disuse
IMProved by.
Rehabilitation -  bruises
physiothefapy  pressure necrosis.
surgery     punctures and cuts.
education   burns blstersI
jont disloation
Contracture
SECONDARY   ULCERATION   FIXED JOINT
INFECTION        D'N     EFORMITY
Cuintis       Scarrmng    Distortion
0steomyitis  DEFORMITY AND   Abnal
L..........LOSSOI  DISASIUTY  preures
t Los of taS ue-Repeated ulccation /
The pathogenesis of disability following nerve damage in leprosy.



- 35 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
COMPLICATIONS DUE TO  EVE DAMAGE
A NOW4e fmkh
1        2         3
Stages of grasp in norzal and claw hands.
Al.   A normal hand opens with extension of all finger joints.
A2.   Closure is begun by pure intrinsic muscle action with flexion of
metacarpophalangeal joints; interphalangeal joints remain extended.
A3.   Grasping the object is completed by long flexor action at the
interphalangeal joints.
Bl. With intrinsic muscle paralysis, hyperextension of metacarpophalangeal
joints may partially compensate for flexion of interphalangeal joints.
B2. Closure is begun and completed by the long flexors which roll the
fingers shut from their tips.
B3.   A large object cannot be grasped.  A small object is grasped between the
finger tips and the metacarpal heads.
Mechanism of damage in anaesthetic
paralysed finger. Repetitive trauma
to a clawed and anaesthetic finger
tip causes callus and subcuticular
destruction of pulp and of the tip
of the distal phalanx.
Stageos in the development of plantar
ulceration in an anaesthetic foot.  (A)
li n b <Repetitive stress bruises sub-cutaneous
tissues.  (B) If it is not allowed to heal,
bruising leads to necrosis.  The liquified
debris tracks to the surface as a necrosis
blister, either directly under the bruise or
sideways to the softer glabrous skin at the
I |1\1 t            \ jl\\l      edge of the sole, as shown here.  The blister
K 1Ji           } Ll b <     remains sterile so long as the skin is not
broken.  (C) The skin breaks down, producing
an ulcer which may be at the site of the
blister or directly overlaying the bony
prominence, as shown here. Sometimes the
ulcer extends to include both sites.



- 36 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
DISABILITY PREVENTION & REHABILITATION
PREVENTION OF DISABILITY. The sequence of events which leads from nerve
damage to disability can be interrupted at four points:
1.    Prevention of misuse by protecting anaesthetic limbs and by teaching the
patient how to care for them.
2.    Early recognition of inflammation, so that the part may be rested before
ulceration takes place.
3.    Permitting ulceration to heal as soon as it is detected, so that there
is a minimum of residual scarring and distortion.
4.    Providing protection for damaged hands and feet, in order to distribute
pressure evenly and to prevent further injury.
x,E"PfrVE INFLAMMAII
S- TRESS
PSiAMMATION   LOWEE O^M^CE    2
MORE         O     S
\   utcsrs    ctuuuns   HILUNGy
TRISSUS    OilrOpmrMy  SCAtlRRIN
A IORE  OSTKOMYlSX
he downhill path which leads from nwee damage to deformzty and
1mpuWtion. The path may be avoided by prevening misuse, and may be kft u
hree pbces (adapted from the original by Dr Paul Brnd).
Source: Leprosy (Third Edition); Anthony Bryceson and Roy E.
Pfaltzgraff; Churchill Livingstone, New York, 1990.



- 37 -                         ANNEX 4
INDIA
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
EXISTING INFRASTRUCTURE UNDER THE NLEP 1991
Facilities                                               Number
Leprosy Control Units                                             758
Urban Leprosy Centers                                             902
Survey, Education & Treatment Centers                           6,099
Temporary Hospitalization Wards                                   291
District Leprosy Units                                            277
Leprosy Training Centers                                           49
Sample Survey cum Assessment Units                                 41



- 38 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
STAFF DUTI
A.    THE CHIEF DISTRICT MEDICAL OFFICER OF HEALTH
B.    THE MEDICAL OFFICER OF THE PRIMARY HEALTH CENTER
C.    THE LEPROSY CONTROL UNIT MEDICAL OFFICERS
D.    THE NON-MEDICAL SUPERVISOR
E.    THE PARA-MEDICAL WORKER
F.    THE HEALTH ASSISTANT (FEMALE M.P.S.)
G.    THE MULTIPURPOSE WORKER (MALE)
H.    THE HEALTH WORKER (FEMALE)
I.    THE VILLAGE HEALTH GUIDE
J.    THE STATE HEALTH EDUCATION OFFICER
K.    THE HEALTH EDUCATOR AT THE DISTRICT LEVEL
L.    THE HEALTH ASSISTANT SUPERVISOR (MULTI-PURPOSE)
M.    THE PHYSIOTHERAPIST AT THE DISTRICT LEVEL
N.    THE COMMUNICATION OFFICER
0.    THE STAFF OFFICER
P.    THE BUDGET AND FINANCE OFFICER
Q.    THE SYSTEM ANALYST AND PROGRAMMER
R.    DISTRICT CONSULTANTS
S.    MEDICAL OFFICER OF THE CENTRAL COORDINATION CELL



- 39 -
Page 2
A. DUTIES OF THE CHIEF DISTRICT MEDICAL OFFICER OF HEALTH
1.    Responsible for administration of implementation of leprosy eradication
activities through the Primary Health Care System.
2.    Function as the Vice-Chairman/Member Secretary of the District leprosy
Society.
3.    Supervise and monitor the Leprosy program activities of the Medical
Officers during the monthly meeting of MOs of health centers or at a
specially convened meeting and take suitable administrative and
operational actions as needed.
4.    Coordinate the Leprosy Program activities with all disciplines in the
health sector as well as non-governmental organizations working for
leprosy through periodic meetings. The services of members of the
District Leprosy Society would be exploited to this end.
5.    Complete any other duties by Central/State authorities.
CHECK LISTS:
Number of new cases when diagnosis has been confirmed.
Number of RFT cases checked before release.
Number of Surveillance cases checked.
MDT patients attendance verified at the Health Centers.
Review the reports and records at PHC/SC.
Provide supportive clinical and technical guidance.
B. DUTIES OF THE MEDICAL OFFICER OF PRIMARY HEALTH CENTER
1.    Responsible for leprosy eradication activities in the Health Centre with
the help of Primary Health Centre staff and PMWs.
2.    Supervise and guide the staff for effective involvement in leprosy
program activities.
3.    Make final diagnosis and classification of suspected leprosy cases
referred by health workers, self-reporting patients and out-patients by
clinical diagnosis and skin smear examinations when necessary.
4.    Ensure monthly supervised MDT to confirmed leprosy cases at PHC and sub-
centre headquarters on fixed day of month and motivate patients for
regular visits.
5.    Release MB and PB cases on completion of treatment.  Clinically assess
both MB and PB cases on completion of 24 pulses and 6 pulses treatment
respectively, particularly in doubtful cases.



-40-                           ANE  5
Page 3
6.    Conduct annual clinical surveillance of cured cases.  Bacteriological
surveillance for MB cases after 2 years and 5 years if possible.
7.    Refer problem cases for expert opinion of visiting DLO/Consultant for
guidance.
8.    Ensure appropriate stock of anti-leprosy drugs and other supplies.
9.    Impart task oriented training of new untrained health workers and health
assistants with the help of district leprosy staff.
10.   Maintain records and submit periodic reports to higher echelons and
review program activities with the staff at monthly meetings.
11.   Responsible for receiving and arranging disbursement of MDT funds
received from DLO.
12.   Disburse and account for MDT expenditure.
13.   Any other duty assigned.
C. DUTIES OF THE LEPROSY CONTROL UNIT MEDICAL OFFICERS
ADMINISTRATIVE AND MANAGERIAL
1.    Operational Planning - to determine and organize sub-centers, treatment
circuits for the Leprosy Control Unit in consultation with the District
Leprosy Officer.
2.    Organize smooth functioning of the unit (rosters, work schedules,
deployment of vehicles, drugs etc.)
3.    Responsible for timely requisition, delivery and accounting of drugs,
chemicals, equipment and health educational materials.
4.    Assure timely availability of the above, staff and vehicles.
5.    Ensure maintenance of vehicles and equipment by repairs and servicing
and avoid misuse.
6.    Prepare monthly, quarterly and annual reports.
7.    Advise District Leprosy Officers on leave rosters of Leprosy Control
Unit Staff.
SUPERVISORY
1.    Allocate authority and monitor work of staff such as NMSS, Health
Educators, PMWs etc.
2.    Identify problems and difficulties of HEs, NMSs and PMWs.
3.    Supervise registration of patients and related activities.



- 41 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4
4.    Verify validity of information and records.
5.    Supervise laboratory staff and ensure smooth functioning.
6.    Supervise health education.
HEDICAL
1.    Make final diagnosis and classification of all leprosy cases.  Prepare
standard case cards and ensure their use by all units in the district.
2.    Decide type of treatment and supervise treatment.
3.    Make six monthly clinical examinations of all leprosy cases.
4.    Arrange for periodic random smear checking.
5.    Diagnose drug reactions and lepra reactions type I and II.
6.    Define and classify disabilities.
7.    Decide when disease inactivity has occurred.
8.    Decide when patient can be released from treatment and declared cured.
9.    Decide the period of surveillance after a case is declared cured.
10.   Determine the type of preventive measures and rehabilitation required by
individual patients and ensure that they receive this care.
COMMUNICATION. HEALTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING
With Ratients:
1.    Educate patients about disease and expected outcome of treatment.
2.    Build up confidence in treatment.
3.    Motivate for regular treatment.
4.    Provide family counseling.
With staff:
5.    Encourage and motivate the staff at all levels.
6.    Improve their technical skills and knowledge.
7.    Support and counsel staff members.



- 42 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
1.    Staff performance.
2.    Operational aspects: identify trouble spots and bottlenecks and suggest
solutions to DLO.
3.    Case findings, drug delivery, compliance, drug side effects, health
education, preventive and vocational rehabilitation components.
4.    Recording, reporting and analysis of the data.
5.    Giving regular feedback to all the units after checking and analyzing
their reports.
D. DUTIES OF THE NON-MEDICAL SUPERVISOR
PLANNING AND SUPERVISION
1.    Plan the work of Para-medical Workers in case detection, mobilization of
cases for treatment and follow up and co-ordinate Health Educators.
2.    Plan and supervise the work performance of Para-Medical Workers
including pre-clinic drives, mobilization and response of patients at
treatment points, absenteeism, screening of contacts, population and
school surveys.
3.    Verify the records, reports and drug sheets of para-medical workers.
4.    Plan and help PMWs in organization and conducting surveys.
MEDICAL
1.    Diagnose leprosy in all suspected cases.
2.    Make provisional classification of patients.
3.    Recognize and refer patients with complications.
4.    Recognize and refer cases with treatment side-effects and lepra
reaction.
5.    Treat minor ailments in leprosy patients.
EDUCATION
1.    Promote knowledge of leprosy and its treatment through contacts with
patients and families of school children and the general public while
conducting surveys during Health Education Camps.



- 43 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6
E. DUTIES OF THE PARA-MEDICAL WORKER
1.    Plan daily activities in advance to optimize time use and patient
coverage in conformity with performance of treatment circuits and health
education activities.
2.    Detect and keep track of people with suspicious signs of leprosy and
make provisional diagnosis to be confirmed by Non-Medical
Supervisor/Medical Officer.
3.    Make tentative classification according to field classification
criteria.
4.    Make lists of cases according to treatment delivery points in
consultation with Non-Medical Supervisor/Medical Officers.
5.    Take skin smears and send them to laboratory .
6.    Suspect and report possible complications and refer them to the non-
medical officer.
7.    Suspect drug side effects and lepra reactions and refer them to Non-
Medical Supervisor/Medical Officer.
8.    Motivate patients for regular attendance to clinics.
9.    Trace and motivate absentees.
10.   Examine healthy family contacts.
11.   Organize and execute general population surveys.
12.   Organize and execute school surveys.
13.   Keep up-to-date and accurate records of all patients.
14.   Write correct reports.
15.   Treat minor common ailments and refer to PHC when necessary.
16.   Recognize and exploit all opportunities for expanding health education
and communication skills.
17.   Have liaison with other health workers of the particular villages such
as the multi-purpose worker-male and female, Anganwadi workers, village
health guides and trained Dais.
18.   Contact patients in his area at regular intervals to educate them about
treatment regularity etc.



- 44 -
ANNEX 5
Page 7
F.  DUTIES OF THE HEALTH ASSISTANT (FEMAIE M.P.S.)
1.    Supervise field work of health workers (female) regarding detection and
referral of suspected leprosy cases for confirmation, health education
of community and motivation of assigned treatment/follow-up defaulters
to visit the health center.
2.    Detect suspected leprosy cases and report to health center for
confirmation.
3.    Identify defaulters and motivate for continuation of treatment.
4.    Make tablet count of anti-leprosy drugs with the patients at their homes
during visits to villages.
5.    Refer leprosy patients under treatment/cases with suspected
rations/complications/drug side effects to health center.
6.    Guide MPW (Female) for regular transmission of prescribed reports on
leprosy activities to the male counterpart (Health Worker - Male).
7.    Any additional activity assigned by MO, PHC.
G. DUTIES OF THE MULTIPURPOSE WORKER (MALE)
1.    Detection of suspected leprosy cases in the assigned community with
special reference to annual examination of family contacts of old and
current leprosy cases during treatment, follow up and referral to the
health center for confirmation.
2.    Motivate and refer all suspected cases to PHC/SHC for confirmation of
diagnosis.
3.    Refer/remind cured leprosy patients in his care to visit Primary Health
Center for annual follow up for two years in PB cases and five years in
MB cases.
4.    Health education of community during field visits on suspected leprosy
signs/symptoms and curability to promote voluntary reporting of
suspected cases and reduce the traditional stigma associated with
leprosy.
5.    Motivate through personal contact to promote treatment compliance and
follow up of patients under MDT and those cured respectively.
6.    Maintain appropriate records of suspected leprosy cases referred,
outcome of referrals, updated line listings of leprosy patients under
MDT and under follow up, and dates/months of expected visits to health
center.
7.    Make tablet count of anti-leprosy drugs at the home of leprosy patients
under MDT to promote regular drug intake.



- 45 -
ANNEX 5
Page 8
8.    Give credit to the contribution of the health worker (female) in her
area in the periodic reports of leprosy activities especially detection
of suspected leprosy Lases.
9.    Promote health guides in his area to educate the community on leprosy
for improved voluntary reporting and reduced stigma.
10.   Treat minor ailments of leprosy patients and refer them to health center
when necessary.
11.   Complete any other duties assigned by MO, PHC.
H. DUTIES OF THE HEALTH WORKER (FEMALE)
1.    Detect suspected leprosy cases especially in the female population in
her area and refer them to primary health center for confirmation.
2.    Remind leprosy patients on MDT in her headquarters village to receive
supervised MDT on due date at fixed time.
3.    Motivate treatment defaulter in her headquarters village to continue and
complete the full course until cure.
4.    Motivate annual follow-up defaulter in her headquarters village to visit
the health center.
5.    Health education of community to promote voluntary reporting and reduce
stigma.
6.   Make tablet count of anti-leprosy drugs at the homes of selected leprosy
patients under MDT in her headquarters village to promote drug intake.
7.    Convey monthly activities under leprosy program to MPW (male) for
incorporation in the periodic report.
8.    Any other tasks assigned by MO, PHC.
I. DUTIES OF THE VILLAGE HEALTH GUIDE
1.    Carry out health education activities in the community to detect
suspected cases of leprosy.
2.    Help MPW (Male Female) in promoting confirmed cases for treatment at the
subcenter headquarters on fixed date by the multipurpose supervisor
(Male).
3.    Help Multipurpose worker (Male & Female) in locating treatment
defaulters and assist in their retrieval.
4.    Any other tasks assigned by MO, PHC.



- 46 -
ANNEX 5
Page 9
J. DUTIES OF THE STATE HEALTH EDUCATION OFFICER
1.    Work under direct supervision of State Leprosy Officer.
2.    Work in close collaboration with NLEP Consultant GOI/WHO.
3.    Coordination with the Communication Officer on central coordination
cell.
4.    Provide all necessary guidance to the health educators in the District
Leprosy offices.
5.    Ensure that the health education action plans are prepared and followed.
6.    Obtain the requisite education material from the Communication Officer
and arrange prompt distribution to the District Leprosy Officers.
7.    Arrange preparation in local languages of materials supplied in
English/Hindi.
8.    Obtain necessary funds from DGHS Leprosy and Communication Officer and
ensure proper utilization.
9.    Provide necessary guidance to the Health Educators at the district level
in implementing 3 main components: mass media, Leprosy extension
education by field staff and orientation of identified categories.
10.   Collaborate with media people at state level including TV, AIR,
Information & publicity dept., family welfare and others.
11.   Arrange periodic inter-media publicity coordination committee meetings.
12.   Take all necessary steps to ensure adequate publicity and proper
education to the community and patients so that MDT is a success and
Leprosy becomes a problem of the past.
K. DUTIES OF THE HEALTH EDUCATOR AT THE DISTRICT LEVEL
1.    Work under direct control of district leprosy officer.
2.    Carry out the various technical guidelines issued by the senior health
education officer at the state level.
3.    Prepare a health education action plan for discussion in meetings of
medical officers at the district level. Obtain approval for this plan
from the district leprosy officer and ensure its implementation.
4.    Obtain requisite education material from the state health education
officer including leprosy education kits, story books, flip charts etc.
and ensure their utilization.



- 47 -
ANNEX 5
Page 10
5.    Use adequate publicity through mass media to dispel traditional myths
about leprosy and enhance community awareness.
6.    Through the use of education kits and other aids, ensure acceptance of
program activities including regular treatment, contract survey and
reporting of reactions.
7.    Help in organization of orientation camps to identified groups according
to health education action plan.
8.    Maintain close collaboration with health education wings of general
health services and family welfare.
L. DUTIES OF THE HEALTH ASSISTANT SUPERVISOR (MULTI-PURPOSE)
1.    Supervise health workers (MPWs) in the field regarding direction and
referral of suspected leprosy cases, health education of community,
notification of treatment defaulters and their follow-up.
2.    Detect suspected leprosy cases and refer them to health center.
3.    Identify and motivate defaulters to visit the sub-centers.
4.    Make tablet count of daily self administered anti-leprosy drugs with the
patient during visit to their homes to assess and improve drug intake.
5.    Refer patients with suspected reactions/complications/drug side effects
to health center.
6.    Guide MPW (Male) in preparation of prescribed report on leprosy
activities in the area.
7.    Be present at the sub-center for administration of monthly pulse
treatment.
8.    Disburse compensation of Rs. 10/- for supervisory pulses to patients and
render account to MO, PHC. Compensation shall be limited to 6 pulses in
PB cases and 24 pulses in MB cases.
9.    Disburse incentive in case or kind decided by the Society to every
patient taking complete course of treatment in prescribed time.
10.   Perform additional assignments from the Medical Officer.
M. DUTIES OF THE PHYSIOTHERAPIST AT THE DISTRICT LEVEL
1.    Work under direct control of district leprosy officer and function as a
part of district leprosy organization.



- 48 -
ANNEX 5
Page 11
2.    Ensure procurement of requisite material to carry on disability and
ulcer care services.
3.    Arrange for orientation of the non-medical supervisors to carry out
disability and ulcer care program.
4.    Ensure conduct of disability survey and maintenance of individual case
cards.
5.    Organize detection of early deformity and help the staff in advising
suitable physiotherapy exercises.
6.    When necessary supply/apply simple aids including refabricated splints
for instance, gutter splints, adduction bands, wrist band loops, modular
grips, aids and POP castings.
7.    Appraise the field staff to select the appropriate time to refer cases
for reconstructive surgery.
8.    Appraise the units/PHCs staff in detecting all cases of plantar
anaesthesia and help the staff in preventing foot ulcer/trophic ulcers.
N. DUTIES OF THE COMMUNICATION OFFICER
1.    Work under the direct control of the Project Director.
2.    Tour for 10 days a month.
3.    Responsible for all health Education activities in the Project areas
supported by the World Bank. Ensure preparation of health education
action plans for each district by organizing workshops at District,
State and National levels and monitoring the implementation of the
action plan.
4.    Review activities under IEC to keep the Project Director informed of the
progress and suggest necessary corrective action.
5.    Arrange for proper feedback to the District and State Authorities
indicating steps to be taken.
6.    Plan various communication activities based on field needs and arrange
for their implementation.
7.    Arrange for proper longitudinal KAP studies to assess the impact of IEC
activities.
8.    Monitor various training activities including the initial orientation of
different categories of staff.



- 49 -
ANNEX 5
Page 12
9.    Arrange for inter-media publicity coordination committee meeting at the
National Level and ensure that suitable instructions/guidelines are
communicated to the District and State Authorities by various media
agencies.
10.   Ensure that similar meetings are arranged at District and State levels
so the best use is made of various media to promote anti-leprosy
activities.
11.   Arrange for preparation of requisite health education material and
ensure their timely supply.
12.   Take all necessary steps to carry on intensive education activities to
remove the unfair stigma associated with leprosy, encourage voluntary
reporting and to accept complete treatment.
0. DUTIES OF THE STAFF OFFICER
1.    Responsible for administrative work connected to the World Bank
supported projects under the direct supervision of the Project Director.
2.    Ensure that various staff sanctioned for the Central Coordination Cell
and the District Consultants are positioned.
3.    Ensure that expeditious action is taken with regards to the service
agreements and approval of programs.
4.   Ensure timely completion of reports due to the World Bank, Government of
India (GOI) and the World Health Organization (WHO).
5.    Take all necessary action for conduct of various workshops and review
meetings in connection with the implementation of these projects.
6.    Attend to any other work that may be assigned by the Project Director.
P. DUTIES OF THE BUDGET AND FINANCE OFFICER
1.    Work under the direct control and supervision of the Project Director to
take care of all matters connected to budget and finance.
2.    Evolve and communicate suitable financial guidelines to all the District
Leprosy Societies and District Consultants.
3.    Ensure timely payment of fees and travel costs.
4.    Ensure that adequate funds are released to the District Leprosy
Societies.



- 50 -
ANNEX 5
Page 13
5.    Watch for the receipt of prescribed expenditure reports from the
Districts and arrange suitable feedback in regard to following the
financial guidelines.
6.    Ensure that prescribed financial statements are furnished to the World
Bank, WHO and the DDGHS (Lep.).
Q. DUTIES OF THE SYSTEM ANALYST AND PROGRAMMER
1.    Work under the direct supervision of the Project Director and carry out
assigned duties.
2.    Attend to the development of requisites for hardware and software to
support relevant programs in connection with the projects supported by
the World Bank.
3.    Compile and analyze the data received from 143 districts through the
technical reports and arrange for interpretation and investigation where
necessary.
4.    Arrange for suitable feedback to the District Consultants and the
District Program Officers for NLEP with suitable guidelines for
rectification of defects.
5.    Keep the Project Director informed of the results of analysis and
indicate the corrective action to be taken.
6.    Make the necessary field visits with the approval of the Project
Director.
7.    Function as the eyes and ears of the Project Director and ensure timely
corrective action keeping overall objectives of the project in mind.
R. DUTIES OF THE DISTRICT CONSULTANTS
1.    Appraise the epidemiological situation of leprosy in the District.
2.    Know the various units and staff as well as vacant'staff positions.
3.    Ascertain training status of different categories of staff and arrange
for necessary training.
4.    Acquaint themselves with the annual targets under case detection,
holding and discharge and ensure their equitable distribution and
achievement.
5.    Ensure correct, complete and timely submission of reports to the
District from the periphery to the State and Central authorities from
the District.



- 51 -
- 51 -                ~~~~ANNEX 5
Page 14
6.    Ensure uninterrupted supply of drugs and other supplies.
7.    Watch receipt and proper utilization of funds.
8.    Ensure efficient laboratory services.
9.    Ensure continuous health education
activities.
10.   Keep close contact with the State and District authorities, voluntary
organizations and private practitioners.
11.   Watch and promote rehabilitation activities.
12.   Participate in the District Leprosy Society meetings and provide
necessary assistance/guidance.
13.   Carry on any other duties assigned by the Project Director/Dy. Director
General of Health Services (Lep.)
S. MEDICAL OFFICER OF THE CENTRAL COORDINATION CELL
1.    Work under the direct supervision of the Project Director.
2.    Assist the Project Director in planning activities and preparing
guidelines.
3.    Assist the Project Director in monitoring and evaluating on-going
project activities to ensure timely feedback.
4.    Tour for at least 10 days a month to supervise field activities.
5.    During field visits, watch for timely receipt of funds, drugs, and other
requirements and ensure their proper utilization.
6.    During field visits, observe whether MDT activities are being carried
out according to guidelines.



- 52 -                               ANNEX 6
INDIA
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
PAST BUDGET PROVISIONS FOR NLEP
(Constant 1991/92 Rupees)
RhI lakhd  (100,000)
3000
25i00     ,.... .... ...cv...c  .......               ..........
I 00               !                                       f
0
185-86  '86-87 '8788  84S9 '89-90 '90-91  91-92
Year
EStM  gants Eb MOdloatlmon
O Opeaonal Support O Support to NGOO
Yer
Acdvity            85-86    86-87    87-88    8849    89-90       SO-91      91-92
Cashgronttostatee          1187.69  1138.91   1441.34  1401.94  1391.93   1553.31    1279.00
Medicines                   774.05   680.53   542.13   582.57   540.21    444.71      450.00
MDT operationW support      256.60   492.80   491.53   504.54   513.68    474.03      501.00
to the District Societies
Support to Vohlntary         82.78    78.22     72.28    67.27    62.64      56.81     50.00
Organizetdone/NG0s 
TOTAL                      2,301.12 2,390.46  2,547.28 2,556.32  2,508.46  2,528.86   2,280.00



- 53 -                         ANNEX 7
INDIA
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
STANDARD MDT REGIMEN
For multibacillary cases. 24 Rulse treatments in 36 months
ADULT          6-9           10-14
PULSE THERAPY          rifampicin       600 mg      300 mg          450 mg
(supervised)          clofazimine       300 mg      100 mg          150 mg
DAILY TREATMENT        dapsone          100 mg       25 mg           50 mg
(self administered)   clofazimine        50 mg       50 mg 1/        50 mg 2/
For Daucibacillary cases. 6 Rulse treatments in 9 months
ADULT          6-9          10-14
PULSE THERAPY           rifampicin         600 mg       300 mg        450 mg
(supervised)
DAILY TREATMENT         dapsone            100 mg        25 mg         50 mg
(self administered)
I/ Self administered twice weekly.
2/ Self administered on alternate days.



- 54 -                                        ANNEX 8
Page 1
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
EFFECTIVENESS OF MULTI-DRUG THERAPY
Leprosy Prevalence and Multidurg Therapy (MDT) Coverage
WHO South-East Asia Region. 1986-1990
1986                                                                            _    Prlee
MOT comwfea
1987
1988
e
1989
1990
30    25    20    15    10          5      0              25              50
Prevalence pw t0 000                           MOT cowrog. (%
Epidemiological Impact of Multidrug Therapy (MDT)
12 Districts in India
Inksktor                                  Accommencem*nt   Mar 1hS Rtducdon
Ilndicater                                    Aud6gorT      Mals 1"0       11duction
de la PCT                     1%)
Prevalence rate per 1000 - Taux de prevalence par 1000.                            9.8            3.4            65.3
New case-detection rate per 1000 - Taux de dipistage de cas nouveaux par 1000       3.1           1.8            42.0
Muitbacillary ratio %) - Taux de cas multibacillaires %).                        24.7           21.3            13.8
Child rate (%) - Taux de cas infantiles (%) .18.8                                                16.3            13.3
Deformity rate %) - Taux de ddformations (..            .                          7.8            2.7            64.5
Number of villages with leprov patients - Nombre devillages comptantdoe l6preux    15 487        11 251          27.4
Source: World Health Organization



- 55 -ANE  
Page 2
Annual New Leprosy Case Detection and
Case Discharge Performance. India. 1980-1990
700-
600-
85X-~~~~~~~                            C.dma
500-                                            C
Ca" dams     Io
Q_~ I         I                           I      I      I
80-81  81-82  82-83  83-4  8495  85-86  8687  87-88  88-89  89-90
Ywm - A_wi4s



- 56 -                        ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
EPIDEMIOLOGIC SCENARIOS
Leprosy Prevalence With the Enhanced Program
Leprosy Cases (thousands)
2,500.
2,000 11      ..................................
l,SOO             ....................xcharedC
1 _00                .................       Remaining Cases
5800 |            g.. ...........
0
'93  '94   5  w  V7  9   9 
Year



-57 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2
LeRrosy Prevalence Without the Enhanced Program
Leprosy Cases (thousands)
2,500
Dishaged Case
U Remainlng Cases
'93  '94  95 W   97  98  X9  W00
Year
Discharges
Registered                                        Death,       Cases
cases at the                                   Monotherapy,  remaining
beginning of    Unidentified                       Other      at the end
Year    the year        Cases      New Cases   MDT       Reasons    of the year
1993      1290           500          +400      -250      -200         1740
1994      1240           450          +375      -225       -200        1640
1995      1190           400          +355      -225       -200        1520
1996      1120           360          +335      -225       -200        1390
1997      1030           320          +315      -190       -175        1300
1998      980            280          +300      -150       -175        1235
1999      955            250          +285      -125       -150        1215
2000       965           225          +270      -100       -150        1210
Cases in thousands.



- 58 -                         ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
LIST OF 66 HIGH ENDEMICITY DISTRICTS TO BE COVERED
THROUGH VERTICAL STRUCTURE BY THE PROJECT
(Prevalence : above 5 per 1,000)
Population in              Estimated Pre-
District                 Lakhs (100,000)            valence Rate
ARUNACHAL PRADESH
1.    Tirap                                1.28                     5.5
2.    West Siang                           0.74                     9.5
3.    East Siang                           0.71                     9.0
4.    Towang                               0.22                     5.0
BIHAR
5.    Dhanbad                             21.04                    15.9
6.    Siwan                               17.78                    13.3
7.    Patna                               30.31                    19.9
8.    Aurangabad                          12.36                     5.5
9.    Nawadah                             10.39                     8.9
10.   Bhojpur                             23.90                     5.6
11.   Purnia                              35.93                     5.8
12.   Katihar                             14.27                     5.3
13.   Muzaffarpur                         23.53                     5.8
14.   Sitamarhi                           19.30                     7.0
15.   Darbhanga                           20.04                     5.0
16.   Western Champaran                   16.68                     5.7
17.   S. Parganas                         37.07                     5.8
KERALA
18.   Kasargode                            8.73                     6.2
19.   Ernakulam                           25.35                     5.0
20.   Cannannore                          19.31                     5.0
21.   Malappuram                          23.03                     8.0
22.   Kozhikode                           22.45                     5.0
MADHYA PRADESH
23.   Bhopal                               8.40                    11.2
24.   Indore                             14.09                     10.8
25.   Khandwa                             11.54                     8.0
26.   Satna                              11.53                     13.1
27.   Datia                                3.12                     7.5
28.   Tikamgarh                            7.37                     5.4
29.   Cahatarpur                           8.87                     6.6
30.   Jabalpur                            21.99                     6.9
31.   Balaghat                            11.48                     5.2
32.   Shahdol                            13.45                      5.6
33.   Surguja                            16.33                      5.3



- 59-                          ANEX 10
Page 2
Population in              Estimated Pre-
District                 Lakhs (100,000)             valence Rate
MANIPUR
34.   Tamonglug                            0.62                      7.0
35.   Chandel                              0.56                      7.2
ORISSA
36.   Phulbani                             7.71                      8.7
37.   Sundergarh                          13.38                     10.5
38.   Kalahandi                           13.39                      5.0
39.   Keonjhar                            11.14                      8.8
ANDAMAN & NICOBAR ISLANDS
40.   Andaman                              1.58                      5.6
SIKKIM
41.   East District                        1.39                      8.6
42.   South District                       0.76                      7.9
UTTAR PRADESH
43.   Gorakhpur                           37.96                      5.9
44.   Lucknow                             20.17                      5.7
45.   Unnao                               18.27                      6.8
46.   Rampur                              11.77                      5.4
47.   Badaun                              19.69                      5.5
48.   Shahjahanpur                        16.49                      7.9
49.   Etawah                              17.49                      5.7
50.   Fatehpur                            15.73                      9.6
51.   Banda                               15.36                      5.6
52.   Hamirour                            11.94                      7.7
53.   Jalaun                               9.88                      7.1
54.   Basti                               35.77                      6.0
55.   Gonda                               20.38                      5.9
56.   Bareilly                            22.65                      7.2
WEST BENGAL
57.   Cooch Bihar                         17.72                      5.0
58.   Howrah                              29.67                      5.0
59.   Hooghly                             35.57                      5.0
60.   Jalpaiguri                          22.15                      7.0
61.   Malda                               20.32                      6.0
62.   24 Parganas (S)                     43.88                      5.0
63.   Nadia                               29.64                      6.0
64.   24 Parganas (N)                     55.29                      5.0
65.   W. Dinajpur                         24.05                      6.0
66.   Murshidabad                         36.98                      6.0



- 60 -                        ANNEX 11
INDIA
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
SERVICE DELIVERY CIRCUITS
Service delivery circuits are established in each district in
preparation for MDT delivery. Each district is broken into units with a
population ranging from 400,000 to 500,000 people. Each unit is divided into
circuits comprised of 40,000 to 50,000 people under the jurisdiction of one
Medical Officer and two para-medical workers. Within each circuit, 10 to 15
drug delivery points (DDP) are identified with the participation of the
beneficiary population representatives. A calendar is established so that
patients receive MDT on the same day of each month.
SCHEMATIC MODEL OF MDT PULSE CALENDAR PER UNIT
Circuits
A       B     C      D       E      F      G       H      I      J
DATES EVERY MONTH
4,5    6,7   9,10  11,12  14,15  16,17  19,20  21,22  24,25  26,27
Drug Delivery Points
1      2      3      4       5      6      7       8      9     10
PMW       Xi     X2     X3      X4     X5     X6      X7     X8     X9    X1o
TIME OF ARRIVAL
6-30   7-15   8-00   8-45   9-15  10-00  11-00  12-00  12-45  14-00
TIME OF DEPARTURE
7-00   7-45   8-30   9-00   9-45  10-15  11-20  12-30  13-40  14-30
X                                               Circuit Border
X         LCU Headquarters
\   a a   \   *  Drug Delivery Point
a         Sub-Center Headquarters
- ..-    -- - ..           ~~Route



- 61 -                          ANNEX 12
Page 1
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
LIST OF 77 INTERMEDIATE ENDEMICITY DISTRICTS
TO BE COVERED UNDER THE MODIFIED MDT PLAN
(Prevalence   2-5 per 1,000)
Population in        Estimated
District                 State            Lakhs (100,000)       Prevalence
Rate
1.    Gaya                      Bihar                31.38                4.8
2.    Hazari Bagh               Bihar                21.95                4.5
3.    Giridih                   Bihar                17.13                4.4
4.    Ranchi                    Bihar                30.59                3.1
5.    Monghyr                   Bihar                33.14                3.6
6.    Begusarai                 Bihar                14.56                4.7
7.    East Champaran            Bihar                24.27                3.1
8.    Madhubani                 Bihar                23.24                4.8
9.    Samstipur                 Bihar                21.16                4.3
10.   Nalanda                   Bihar                16.38                2.9
11.   Palamu                    Bihar                19.16                2.6
12.   Saharsa                   Bihar                29.52                2.2
13.   Saran                     Bihar                20.74                2.3
14.   Gopalganj                 Bihar                13.61                2.8
15.   Daman                     Daman & Diu           0.48                4.1
16.   Bangalore                 Karnataka            34.92                3.1
17.   Kolar                     Karnataka            19.05                3.7
18.   Mandya                    Karnataka            14.18                3.8
19.   D. Kannada                Karnataka            23.36                2.8
20.   Pathanamthita             Kerala               10.76                3.3
21.   Kottayam                  Kerala               16.97                3.3
22.   Idukki                    Kerala                9.71                3.1
23.   Wynad                     Kerala                0.55                3.0
24.   Hoshangabad              Madhya Pradesh        10.03                3.6
25.   Ratlam                    Madhya Pradesh        7.82                4.6
26.   Dhar                      Madhya Pradesh       10.57                3.8
27.   Jhabua                    Madhya Pradesh        7.95                3.2
28.   Barwani                   Madhya Pradesh       16.13                4.0
29.   Guna                      Madhya Pradesh       10.01                3.2
30.   Damoh                     Madhya Pradesh        7.21                4.3
31.   Chindwara                 Madhya Pradesh       12.33                4.3
32.   Mandla                    Madhya Pradesh       10.37                3.8
33.   Sidhi                     Madhya Pradesh        9.90                4.2
34.   Betul                     Madhya Pradesh        9.25                2.7
35.   Rajgarh                   Madhya Pradesh        8.01                2.7
36.   Dewas                     Madhya Pradesh        7.95                2.3
37.   Shajapur                  Madhya Pradesh        8.40                2.3



- 62 -                         ANNEX 12
Page 2
Population in        Estimated
District                 State            Lakhs (100,000)      Prevalence
Rate
38.   Shivpuri                 Madhya Pradesh         8.65               2.7
39.   Morena                   Madhya Pradesh        13.03               2.0
40.   Seoni                    Madhya Pradesh         8.09               2.1
41.   Panna                    Madhya Pradesh         5.39               2.9
42.   Narsingpur               Madhya Pradesh         6.50               2.1
43.   Jalna                    Maharashtra           11.85               3.4
44.   Jalgaon                  Maharashtra           30.04               4.1
45.   Kolhapur                 Maharashtra           28.08               3.4
46.   Sangli                   Maharashtra           20.59               4.0
47.   Ratnagiri                Maharashtra           14.54               2.2
48.   Dhule                    Maharashtra           23.53               2.6
49.   Ahmad Nagar              Maharashtra           30.51               2.8
50.   Pune                     Maharashtra           49.49               2.2
51.   Aurangabad               Maharashtra           18.23               2.8
52.   Farrukhabad              Uttar Pradesh         20.02               3.8
53.   Jhansi                   Uttar Pradesh         11.33               3.2
54.   Pratapgarh               Uttar Pradesh         18.07               3.3
55.   Sultanpur                Uttar Pradesh         20.38               3.6
56.   Chamoli                  Uttar Pradesh          3.64               3.2
57.   Nanital                  Uttar Pradesh         11.23               3.2
58.   Moradabad                Uttar Pradesh         31.51               4.2
59.   Jaunpur                  Uttar Pradesh         25.27               4.1
60.   Aligarh                  Uttar Pradesh         25.65               2.1
61.  Allahabad                 Uttar Pradesh         37.81               2.7
62.   Lalitpur                 Uttar Pradesh          5.87               2.6
63.   Tehri Garwal             Uttar Pradesh          4.99               2.9
64.   Pithoragarh              Uttar Pradesh          4.80               2.7
65.   Calcutta                 West Bengal           42.56               4.0
66.   Darjeeling               West Bengal           11.49               4.0
67.   Chamba                   Himachal Pradesh       3.11               2.7
68.   Shimla                   Himachal Pradesh       5.10               2.0
69.   Sirmur                   Himachal Pradesh       3.06               2.6
70.   Ajmer                    Rajasthan             14.40               2.5
71.   Bharatpur                Rajasthan             12.99               2.6
72.   Ganga Nagar              Rajasthan             20.29               2.5
73.   Jaipur                   Rajasthan             34.20               2.0
74.   Jodhpur                  Rajasthan             16.67               2.0
75.   S. Madhopur              Rajasthan             15.35               2.7
76.   Sirohi                   Rajasthan              5.42               2.2
77.   Udaipur                  Rajasthan              3.56               2.4



- 63 -                          ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS PERFORMING RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY UNDER THE PROJECT
Location
Institution                    Town             district            State
Sivananda Rehabilitation Home      Kukkahapalli      Rangareddy          Andhra Pradesh
Philadelphia Hospital              Salur             Vizianagaram        Andhra Pradesh
Leprosy Hospital                   Palamaneru        Chittoor            Andhra Pradesh
CLTRI                              Tirumani          Chengalput          Tamil Nadu
Schieffelin Leprosy Hospital       Karigiri           North Arcot        Tamil Nadu
Tamil Nadu                          Kumbakonam                           Tamil Nadu
Gremaftes                          Madras            Madras              Tamil Nadu
Leprosy Hospital                   Manamadu                              Tamil Nadu
Gandhi Medical College             Bhopal            Bhopal              Madhya Pradesh
MGM Medical College                Indore            Indore              Madhya Pradesh
(M.J. Hospital)
Pt J.N.M. Medical College          Raipur            Raipur              Madhya Pradesh
G.R. Medical College               Gwalior           Gwalior             Madhya Pradesh
Medical College                    Jabalpur          Jabalpur            Madhya Pradesh
S.S. Medical College               Rewa               Rewa               Madhya Pradesh
National Institute for             Calcutta          Calcutta            West Bengal
Orthopedically Handicapped (NIOH)
The Leprosy Mission Hospital        Purulia           Purulia            West Bengal
The Leprosy Mission Hospital, Maniktola  Calcutta     Calcutta           West Bengal
Regional Leprosy Research Referral &    Bankura      Bankura             West Bengal
Training Center, Gowripur



- 64 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2
Location
Institution                     Town              district             State
Bharat Sevashram Sangh, Sidgora      Jamshedpur        Jamshedpur          Bihar
Ansulya Leprosy Hospital             Baroda            Baroda              Gujarat
Narol Leprosy Hospital              Ahmedabad          Ahmedabad           Gujarat
Bhavnagar Leprosy Hospital           Bhavnagar         Bhavnagar           Gujarat
(to be developed)
Junagarh Leprosy Hospital            Junagarh          Junagarh            Gujarat
(to be developed)
Santhal Pahadia Seva Mandal          Madhupur          Deogarh             Bihar
Govemmerit Leprosy Training Center   Brambe            Ranchi              Bihar
Richardson Leprosy Hospital          Miral             Miraj               Maharashtra
Bandarwala Leprosy Hospital          Pune              Pune                Maharashtra
The Leprosy Mission Hospital         Kothara                               Maharashtra
Ackworth Leprosy Hospital            Bombay            Bombay              Maharashtra
CLCP (Dr. Atul Shah)                 Bombay            Bombay              Maharashtra
Hubli Hospital for Handicapped       Hubli             Hubli               Kamataka
The Leprosy Mission Hospital         Belgaum           Belgaum             Kamataka
Govemment Leprosy Hospital           Magdl Rd          Banglore            Kamataka
Govemment LRPU                      Gulbarga           Gulbarga            Kamataka
Father Muller's Hospital            Mangalore          Manglore            Kamataka
Lucknow Medical College             Lucknow            Lucknow             Uttar Pradesh
Agra Medical College                Agra               Agra                Uttar Pradesh
Leprosy Mission Hospital            Barabanki          Barabanki           Uttar Pradesh
Leprosy Mission Hospital            Faizabad           Faizabad            Uttar Pradesh
Leprosy Mission Hospital            Varanasi           Varanasi            Uttar Pradesh
(to be developed)
Leprosy Mission Hospital            Kanpur             Kanpur              Uttar Pradesh
(to be developed)



- 65 -                                       ANNEX 14
INDIA
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
TRAINING SCHEDULE
Cadres       Dura-   No.                                        Numbers to be trained in 6 years
Areas        to be        tion    per    Phasing    Trainers          -_-
trained      (day)   Dist.  batches                     Total    1       2      3        4      5         6
66 Dists.      NLEP Staff    5          100       2       Mobil-        6,600  3,300  3,300
vith high                                                 Teams - 1
endemicity                                                for each 5
Dists.
Medical        5          70       2      Mobile         4,620                            700  3,220      700
Officers                                  Teams
Multi-         2        400       16       Trained      26,400                          4,000 18,400  4,000
purpose                                   MOs and
Staff                                     NMSs
77 Dists.      Medical        5          70       2       Mobile        5,390          2,660  2,730
vith inter-   Officers &                                  Teems - 1
mediate        Supervisors                                for each 5
endemicity                                                Dists.
Multi-         2        400       16       Trained      30,800         15,200 15,600
purpose                                   MOs
Staff
135 high       Medical        5          70       2       Leprosy       9,450          4,760  4,690
endemicity    Officers                                    Training
Districts                                                 Centers
already
under regular
MDT
Multi-         2        400      16       MO, LCU       54,000         27,200 26,800
purpose                                   and PHC
Staff
NLEP Staff              100       2       CMD, DTCs    13,500           6,800  6,700
in other                                  and DLO
duties
Endemic        Medical         5         70       2       Mobile         1,400            700    700
Pockets        Officers                                   Teams
Multi-         2        400       16      MOM            8,000          4,000  4,000
purpose
Staff
160,160  3,300 64,620 61,220  4,700 21,620  4,700



- 66 -                                                ANNEX 15
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
SELECTED PROJECT COST TABLES
Table 1. ExDenditure Accounts by Years
(Rs. Millions)
Fed
3m. Coa                                          Emage
93n4         94n5         95/       Kn7        97/16    9am99          TOWal       S    A      t
1. Invutment Cost
Civil Works                                    11.17        22.34        22.34      0.00       0.00       0.00        55.86      9.0       5.03
Purndtrm                                        1.66         2.83         2.58      0.00       0.00       0.00         7.07      9.0       0.64
Equipment                                      30.38        74.66        40.81     21 60      21.60      21.60       210.64     30.0      63.19
Vebllres                                       50.84        91.63        89.13      0.00       0.00       0.00       231.60     30.0      69.48
Minlesls & Supplies                             9.60        16.75        16.75      16.75     16.75      16.75        93.33      5.0       4.67
Medidnes                                       67.60        94.41       110.23     119.03    104.03      91.83       387.12     40.0    234.85
Worikhops                                       9.63        13.85        14.75      14.75     14.75      14.37        82.09                   -
ConoZmctam1 Selcs                             103.95       242.66       261.12    267.01     267.01     267.01     1.408.76      5.0      70.44
1M1dicdSurpl Serices                           10.00        33.82        28.70     28.04      27.38       8.95       136.88     15.0      20.53
Trining                                        21.80        47.04        62.25      15.89     13.13       9.36       169.47
Publidty Service                              33.63         33.83        33.83     33.83      33.83      18.83       187.75     10.0      18.77
NGO Servlces                                   14.40        25.92        25.92     25.92      25.92      25.92       144.00
Total InvedetaL Comt                            364.66       699.73       708.39     542.80    524.37    474.61       3.314.56     14.7    487.59
3. Recurrnt Comb
Hlonorwia                                     24.45        25.99         23.99     25.99      25.99      16.39       144.77
VblcWeOpeinon &Meinaem                        18.67        19.82        20.40     20.40      20.40     20.40        120.09     15.0      18.01
omfc Opcerwon & Mainennce                       8.36        15.05        15.05     15.05      15.05      15.05        83.60
Paient Ex-Giris Paymenu                        12.24        38.63        44.25     46.59      46.59     46.59        234.90
Hospital Seuvices                              14.04        14.04        14.04     14.04      14.04       7.80        78.00
Sulssica                                      65.70         74.46        74.46     74.46      74.46      74.46      438.00
ConsumableMagcls                               3.30          3.87         3.87      3.87       3.87      3.87         22.67      5.0       1.13
TotalR.ecursmutCag                              146.75       191.86       198.06    200.40    200.40      184.56      1,122.03      1.7     19.15
Total BASELINE COSMS                              511.42       891.59       906.45     743.20     724.77    659.17     4,436.59      11.4    506.74
Physical Contingpnciec                        33.08        58.60         58.31     43.92      42.25     38.84       275.01      16.1     44.29
1ie Contlngernde
Inf-Ion
L1al                                     14.12         63.34       101.48     99.09     120.14     121.65       519.81        -
Poreign                                    1.03        5.26          8.44      8.11       9.60      10.11       42.55     100.0     42.55
Subtotal InfIon                             15.15        68.60       109.92     107.20     129.74    131.76       562.36      7.6      42.55
Devalueonto                                  5.27        18.33        26.43      22.62     24.81      24.31       121.77     94.0    114.52
Sub4talPrimlC      1_lgusdm                   20.42        86.93        136.35    129.81     154.54    156.07       684.14      23.0    157.08
TtdalIPOJECTCOSTS                                 564.91       1037.13      1101.11    916.93     921.57    854.08      5,395.73     13.1    708.10
Ta"                                            16.55        30.12        29.04     19.94      19.46      18.19       133.31        -
Foregn Exchne                                 77.99        147.20       153.23    115.26     112.13     102.29       708.10



- 67 -
- 67   -                           ~~~~ANNEX  15
Page 2
Table 2. Disbursement Accounts by Disbursement Categories
(US$ Million)
Local     Dutes
IDA                  GOI                  Total       For.    (Exd.        &
Amoun,t     %        Amount       %       Amount       %   Exch.    Taxes)    Taxes
Civil Works                                                         1.S7   100.0         1.87     1.4    0.18       1.70
Furniture                                         -      -          0.24   100.0         0.24     0.2     0.02      0.21
Equipment                                      6.60   90.0          0.73    10.0         7.33     5.3     2.30      4.29      0,73
Vebicles                                       2.37    30.0         5.52    70.0         7.89     5.7     2.47      4.87      0.55
Materials a Supplice                           2.91    90.0         0.32    10.0         3.23     2.3     0.17      2.83      0.23
Patient Ei-GratiA                                 -      -          6.24   100.0         6.24     4.5        -      6.24         -
Medicinea                                     18.82    90.0         2.09    10.0        20.91    15.1     8.73     10.72       1.46
Workshops                                      2.70   100.0            -      -          2.70     2.0        -      2.70         -
Contractural Services                         32.16    84.7         5.81    15.3        37.97    27.5     2.27     35.70
Medical/Surgical Services                      4.53   100.0                   -          4.53     3.3     0.72      3.80
Training                                       5.47   100.0            -      -          5.47     4.0        -      5.47         -
Publicity Services                             5.23    84.7         0.95    15.3         6.18     4.5     0.66      5.27      0.25
NGO Services                                      -                 4.74   100.0         4.74     3.4        -      4.74         -
Honorria                                       2.25    50.0         2.25    50.0         4.51     3.3        -      4.51         -
Vehicle Operation & Mainteance                 2.00    50.0         2.00    50.0         3.99     2.9     0.64      3.15       0.20
OfTcc Operction   Maintenance                     -      -          2.75   100.0         2.75     2.0        -      2.75         -
Hospital Servics                                  -                 2.55   100.0         2.55     1.8        -      2.55
Salaries                                          -      -         14.39   100.0        14.39    10.4        -      14.39
Cotsumable Materials                                                0.78   100.0         0.78     0.6     0.04      0.73       0.02
Total                                             85.04    61.5         53.23    38.5       138.27   100.0    18.21    116.62      3.44



- 68 -                                              ANNEX 15
Page 3
Table 3. ExRenditure Accounts by Categories
(US$ Million)
-r                                              _
VaUd          M.akl-D          Dl_M Py Prra_dhA SkS                                        rb&
C_am4m                 MaU-lDr          Thauy            Con &          NkA           l__htm I                    C     _d_-du
Thepy          mr C           prwtdAl   Awruwr              Duw'  i           Tabd       s      A_mu
L I1v.-mud Cb
aCIi Woks                             1.71              -                                                          1.71      10.0        0.17
F~arnlwm                              0.10            0.09             -            0.01             0.02          0.22      10.0        0.02
Equlpuoi                l1.24                         0.21            3.68          0.01             1.32          6.46      10.0        0.65
Vebkis                                6.17            0.60             -            0.20             0.15          7.10      10.0        0.71
MUbrba & S9w1                         1.55            0.05             -            0.43             0.33          2.36      10.0        0.29
h6sdku                                13.59           4.42             -              -               -            18.01     10.0        1.80
Wakeap                                0.77            0.34            0.07          0.21             1.13          2.52      5.0         0.13
CAurauW 3Setvkm                       27.43           11.33                         1.24             3.22          43.21     5.0         2.16
JmamliugimI Servm                       -               -             4.20            .                            4.20      5.0         0.21
Tbinn                                   -               -                             -              5.20          5.20       5.0        0.26
blkty Sln                                       -                      -            5.76              -            5.76      5.0         0.29
NOO S'ks                                                -              -            4.42                           4.42      5.0         0.22
Tabi  inia.tC  Cois                     52.56           17.03           7.95          12.28            11.86         101.67     6.          6.90
3E Lairrui Cafr
Hosorul                               3.68            0.76             .              -               -            4.44              -
VeM lds Ophwlam& b .mm                2.67            0.53             -            0.13            0.31           3.68      5.0         0.18
Offi  opi OPUSO&                      1.92            0.46             -              -              0.18          2.56      5.0         0.13
P"s E       x-Oras wnass              3.75            3.45             -              .               -            7.21      5.0         0.36
oiithil SUYiou                        2.39             -                                                           2.39      5.0         0.12
-wiI                                  13.44            -               -              -               .            13.44     5.0         0.67
Co.amb4 MIds                          0.47            0.01             -              -             0.21           0.70      10.0        0.07
TgbI Rsemd,  Cb                         28.33           5.22              .           0.1l             0.69          34.42      4.5         1.53
Told BASELME COS                          3O.9            22.25           7.95          12.45            12.55         136.09     6.2         I.44
PvyIcm C       _AIpSdS                5. 10           1.34            0.53          0.66            0.75           3.44
Pr-   Comaps4as                       *3.82           -2.35           0.32          0.05            40.45         .6.26      3.3        40.24
Taid PROJlEC  COSS                        32.16           21.24           3.85          13.16            12.36         133.27     5.9         8.20
Tm                                    2.00            0.47            0.42          0.31            0.24           3.44      S.5         0.29
F<ipxibagpP                           11.35           3.15            ,.06          0.35            0.79           13.21     3.1         1.47



- 69 -                                         ANNEX 15
Page 4
Table 4. Proiect ComDonents by Year
(Rs. Million)
ES" C4al
Components                       93/94        94/95 WMt96            9/97      97/96     96/99        Total
Vertical Multi-Dmg Therapy                        359.67       528.91       533.91    423.74    408.74    3S1.90      2,636.89
Inegration of Multi-Drug Therapy tru PHC            13.00      117.31       153.71    147.65    147.65    146.05       725.37
Disability Care & Prevention                       22.23        55.84        50.72     50.06     49.40     30.97       259.21
Promoting Public Awarness                          63.17        71.55        71.55     71.55     71.55     56.55       405.94
Enhancing Skills & Institutional Development       53.34       117.97        96.56     50.20     47.43     43.69       409.18
Tota BASELINE COSTS                                    511.42       891.59      906.45    743.20    724.77    659.17      4,436.59
Physical Contingencies                             33.08        58.60        58.31     43.92     42.25     38.84       275.01
lrce Contingences
Infladon
Local                                          14.12       63.34       101.48     99.09    120.14    121.65       519.81
Foreign                                         1.03        5.26         8.44      8.11      9.60      10.11       42.55
Subtotal Illation                                15.15        68.60      109.92    107.20    129.74    131.76        562.36
Devaluation                                       5.27        18.33       26.43     22.62      24.81     24.31       121.77
Subtotal Price Contingecies                        20.42        86.93       136.35    129.81    154.54    156.07       684.14
Tota IPROJECTCOSTS                                     564.91     1,037.13     1,101.11    916.93    921.57    854.08     5,395.73
Taxes                                               16.55       30.12        29.04     19.94     19.46      18.19      133.31
Foreign Exchange                                   77.99       147.20       153.23    115.26    112.13    102.29       708.10
Table  5.   ExRenditure  Iccounts by  Years
(USa  Mil'.lion)
Local    Dutis
IDA                GOI                 Toal         For.    (Kd.        &
Amount     s       Amount      5       Amount        S   Exek.   Taxes)    Taxzes
Vertical Multi-Dng Theapy                   43.67   53.2        38.49   46.8        82.16    59.4   11.35     6F81       2.00
lntegation of Multi-Dng lTerapy thma PHC    14.49   68.2         6.76   31.8        21.24    15.4    3.15      17.63     0.47
Disability Ca   Prveention                   8.43   95.2         0.42    4.8         8.85     6.4    2.06      6.36      0.42
Promoting Public Awarenes                    6.99   53.1         6.17   46.9        13.16     9.5    0.85      12.00     0.31
EnhsnwingSkils nstinituonalDcvekpma1t      11.46   89.1         1.40   10.9        12.86     9.3    0.79      11.82     0.24
Total Dkburement                                85.04   61.5        53.23   38.5       138.27   100.0   18.21    116.62      3.44



- 70 -                                                ANNEX 15
Page 5
Table 6. Detailed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
frtomnnw Mdbod
ihtenm  
ConipgUve         Conpldve          Local
Bidding           Bidding        Shopping      Off the Shelf     Other      N.B.F.       Thai
Equipment                                                                2.00           5.33                     -                  -          7.33
(1.80)         (4.80)                                                (6.60)
Vehides                                                 '                               7.89             -              -           -          7.89
(2.37)                                                (2.37)
M    vltrls & Supplie s                                                    .             1.50           1.73            -           -          3.23
(1.3S)         (15S)                                  (2.90)
Medicines                                             13.77                -            5.30            1.86            -                     20.93
(12.39)                           (4.76)         (1.68)                                 (18.83)
Workshops & Trnnilng                                    --                                                             8.17                    8.17
(8.17)                  (8.17)
Contraturai Services                                                       -              -              -            37.97                   37.97
(32.14)                 (32.14)
Medical/Surgica Services                                -                  -                                           4.53                    4.53
(4.53)                  (4.53)
Publicity Services                                      *                         -               -                    6.18         -          6.18
(5.21)                  (5.21)
Honoraris                                                                                                             4.51                     4.51
(2.24)                  (2.24)
Vehicle Operaion & Mainterance                                   -                        -              -            3.99          -          3.99
(2.00)                  (2.00)
Civil Works                                             .                  .              .                             -         1.87         1.87
Furniture                                                                  -              -              -                        0.24         0.24
NGO Services                                            -                                                                         4.74         4.74
Office Opertion & Maintenance                           .                 -               -              -              -         2.75         2.75
Patient Ex-Gratin                                       -                                 -              -              -         6.24         6.24
}ospital Servies                                        -                 -               -              -              -         2.55         2.55
Saiaries                                                                                  -              -              -         14.39       14.39
Conunuble Mlaterias                                     .                 .               -              .              -         0.78        0.78
Total                                                   13.77              2.00           20.02           3.59          65.35       33.56       138.29
(12.39)            (1.80)        (13.28)         (3.23)         (54.29)       -         (85.00)
No.  *    Fie in psiatLisu a tio usepsep   ammie faihud by IDA.
For ear  of refee, thi tori spinet whh iDA pred wou  e dsbudrsed i  sen  at   qt pa of tItable.
N.B.F.: Notl ank Fesd.



- 71 -                                16
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
MONITORING INDICATORS
A. Essential Indicators
Prevalence Rate
1.        The prevalence rate is defined as the number of cases registered
for chemotherapy at the end of the year divided by the population in which the
cases have occurred. This indicator reflects the magnitude of the problem and
helps in planning and evaluating control measures. It is useful to express
the prevalence using absolute numbers and rate per 10,000.
Detection Rate
2.        This rate is defined as the number of new cases detected during a
year divided by the population covered by the program. This indicator is the
most appropriate for estimating the true incidence of the disease in a given
population. It should always be related to the prevalence, and be expressed
using absolute numbers and rate per 10,000.
Disabilities Among Newly Detected Cases
3.        This is defined as the proportion of newly detected cases with
visible deformities or damage present (WHO Grade 2) among the total number of
newly detected cases during the year. This indicator reflects the
effectiveness of the program in terms of early case finding and the level of
community awareness of the disease, particularly in the initial phase of MDT
implementation.
MDT Coverage
4.        MDT coverage is defined as the proportion of cases receiving
multidrug therapy among the total number of cases appearing on the treatment
register. This indicator reflects the program performance in achieving MDT
coverage.
5.        The MDT coverage can be expressed according to various periods of
time while specifying the types of leprosy (MB & PB). The age of the patients
and the sub-categories of "early cases" or "established cases" are also
considered.
6.        In calculating MDT coverage, the indicator expresses the proportion
of patients under MDT among the total number of patients registered for
treatment. However, sub-categories of patients require further attention,
e.g., if a high proportion of "early cases" are put on MDT (majority of cases)
and only a low proportion of "established cases" (minority) are receiving MDT,
the aggregate MDT coverage may be high but the proportion of patients with



- 72 -
ANNEXL 16
Page 2
established conditions who really need MDT may remain inadequately covered.
Also, MDT coverage may be poor in areas of difficult terrains.
7.        At global and national levels the use of cumulative MDT coverage is
considered useful to measure the achievements of a leprosy control program in
terms of the proportion of patients treated with MDT since its implementation.
Cure Rate
8.        This rate is defined as the proportion of registered cases cured of
leprosy among cases who are supposed to complete MDT during a given period.
This indicator is extremely useful for monitoring implementation of MDT at all
levels. It should be calculated using cohort reporting, the cohort being
defined as a group of patients starting treatment at the same period of time.
Wherever the compilation of this information is not yet feasible, the annual
absolute number and the cumulative number of cured patients can be used.
RelaRse Rate
9.        Recording of relapses serves as a crude marker of treatment failure
which could indicate the need for special studies.
10.       For monitoring purposes, reporting on the absolute number of
relapses is adequate. If relapse rates are calculated on cohort basis, the
period of follow up should be taken into consideration.
B. Optional Indicators
11.       These indicators may be used for special purposes primarily through
a network of sentinel centers/areas. Additional resources may be needed for
collection of some data required for these indicators.
(a) Prevalence rate by type MB/PB;
(b) Proportion of children among newly detected cases;
(c) New cases specified by mode of detection;
(d) Incidence of new disabilities among registered cases; and
(e) MDT coverage in new patients.
C. Program Coverage
12.       For some statistical comparative purposes at the national and
global levels, it may be necessary to adjust denominators using existing
information on health services coverage, immunization coverage notably BCG
coverage, and utilization of general health services by leprosy patients.



- 73 -
ANNEX 17
INDIA
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
A main strategy for field visits would be to compare project
implementation issues in vertical service delivery settings with the
integrated model of service delivery in the general health care system. IDA
supervision teams would collaborate with WHO visiting teams and resident
technical experts. WHO would also share with IDA its findings of the yearly
program review. Supervision missions would liaise with major NLEP
participants, who would be invited to participate in the Mid-term Review. The
World Bank Resident Mission would participate in (a) liaising with the
Government and providing operational support; and in (b) procurement,
disbursements and auditing matters and follow-up.
Semester (Calendar Year)
94 I
94 II
95 I
95 II
96 I
96 II/97 I Mid-Term Review
97 II
98 I
98 II
99 I
99 II
Field of Skills Reguired on Alternating Basis
Leprology
Epidemiology
IEC
Anthropology
Tribal Affairs
Training/Human Resources Development
Economics
WID
Procurement, Disbursement, Auditing
Staff Weeks Reauirements
20-24 staff weeks would be required every year.



-74-                            ANNE  18
INDIA
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
FORECAST OF EXPENDITURES AND DISBURSEMENTS
ExRenditures             Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year            Semester   Cumulative    Semester   Cumulative
---------------- USS Million -----------------
FY94
Jul 93 - Dec 93                 8.12          8.12        4.30         4.30
Jan 94 - Jun 94                 8.12         16.24        4.30         8.59
FY95
Jul 94 - Dec 94                14.05         30.25        8.25        16.84
Jan 95 - Jun 95                14.05         44.34        8.25        25.09
EY96
Jul 95 - Dec 95                14.15         58.49        8.30        33.38
Jan 96 - Jun 96                14.15         72.64        8.30       41.68
FY97
Jul 96 - Dec 96                11.46         84.10        7.03       48.71
Jan 97 - Jun 97                11.46         95.56        7.03        55.73
FY98
Jul 97 - Dec 97                11.18        106.74        6.75        62.48
Jan 98 - Jun 98                11.18        117.92        6.75        69.23
FY99
Jul 98 - Dec 98                10.17        128.09        5.91        75.13
Jan 99 - Jun 99                 9.91        138.00        5.91        81.04
FY2000
Jul 99 - Dec 99                 0.26        138.26        2.98        84.02
Jan 2000 - Mar 2000             0.00        138.26        0.98        85.00



- 75 -                        ANNEX 19
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL LEPROSY ELIMINATION PROJECT
SELECTED WORKING PAPERS AND DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    Strategy for Leprosy Control in India.  B.N. Mittal, 1992.
2.    Fourth Independent Evaluation of the National Leprosy Eradication
Programme. Leprosy Division, Directorate General of Health Services,
1991.
3.    World Bank Project Proposal.  Health Services Development: Assistance to
the National Leprosy Eradication Programme. Leprosy Division,
Directorate General of Health Services, Ministry of Health and Family
Welfare, New Delhi, June 1991.
4.    Project Document for World Bank Support, Additional Information.
Leprosy Division, Directorate General of Health Services, Ministry of
Health and Family Welfare, 1992. Volumes I and II.
5.    Training Manual for Health Workers, National Leprosy Eradication
Programme in India, 1990. Leprosy Division, Directorate General of
Health Services, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.
6.    Guidelines for Multidrug Treatment in Endemic Districts, National
leprosy Eradication Programme in India, 1989. Directorate General of
Health Services, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.
7.    Guidelines for Modified MDT Scheme in Selected Districts.  Leprosy
Division, Directorate General of Health Services, Ministry of Health and
Family Welfare.
8.    Report of the Working Group on the Eradication of Leprosy.  Ministry of
Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, New Delhi, February
1982.
9.    Background Material, Leprosy Division, 4th Independent Evaluation of
NLEP, December 1991.
10.   The Patient, The Person.  Empowering the Leprosy Patient.  Sanjiv Kakar,
DANLEP, New Delhi, 1992
11.   No Stone Unturned.  Communication in the Fight Against leprosy.  Urvashi
Butalia, DANLEP, New Delhi, 1992
12.   The Story Within the Story.  Women Fight Against Leprosy.  Urvashi
Butalia, DANLEP, New Delhi, 1992.
13.   The Patient Among People.  Community Involvement in Leprosy Eradication.
Shampa Banerjee, DANLEP, New Delhi, 1992.



- 76 -
ANNEX 19
Page 2
14.   One Myth Less.  Experiences of a Leprosy Project in India.  Stine Leth-
Nissen, DANIDA 1990.
15.   Leprosy Control: A Report for KAP Study, UNICEF, Quest Qualitative
Research, Bombay.
16.   The Lepers (Punjab Repeal) Bill, 1992.  Punjab Government Gazette.
December 21, 1992.
17.   Plan of Action for Delivery of Services to Indigenous Population.
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.
18.   Beneficiary Study of Leprosy Services among Tribal and Non Tribal
Population in the Selected Districts of Madhya Pradesh and Andhra
Pradesh, Directorate General of Health Services, 1992.
19.   Danish Assistance Phase II (1991-1995). Plan of Operation.  India:
National Leprosy Eradication Programme. Department of International
Development Cooperation, DANIDA, February 1991.
20.   Multidrug Therapy for Leprosy: An End in Sight.  World Health
Organization, Geneva, 1988.
21.   Integration of Leprosy Services with General Health Services - Why and
How.
22.   R. Ganapati, Monthly News Bulletin, Indian Leprosy Association, Vol. 12
No. 4, April 1990.
23.   Annual Report 1990.  Central Jalma Institute for Leprosy, Indian Council
of Medical Research, Agra.
24.   Report on GOI/WB/WHO Mission to Assess Current Activities on the
National Leprosy Eradication Program. L. Lopez Bravo and B.K. Rao,
February 1992.
25.   Leprosy Elimination.  Forty-fifth Session of the Regional Committee.
Regional Office for South-East Asia. World Health Organization,
SEA/RC45/19, July 1992.



