Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2528 IN
                   Development Credit Agreement
              (National Leprosy Elimination Project)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated February 4, 1994
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2528 IN
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 4, 1994, between INDIA, acting by
its President, (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Project (except Part E (2)) will be carried out by
the Project States with the assistance of the Borrower, and Parts
D
and E(1) will be carried out by the Project States and the
Borrower
and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to
the Project States the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement; and
      (C)   Part E(2) of the Project will be carried out by the
Borrower;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
Page  2
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "District Leprosy Society" means any society established
 under the Borrower's Societies Registration Act, 1860,  with the
predominant objective of carrying out NLEP;
      (b)   "endemicity" means usual presence of a disease within
a geographic area or population group;
      (c)   "FY" means the fiscal year of the Borrower, which begins
on April 1 each year and ends on March 31 of the following year;
      (d)   "Letter of Undertaking" means the letter referred to in
Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
      (e)   "Leprosy" means a chronic, slow developing bacterial
disease of man caused by mycobacterium leprae affecting the skin
and peripheral nerves;
      (f)   "MOHFW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health and
Family Welfare;
      (g)   "NLEP" means the Borrower's National Leprosy Eradication
Program;
      (h)   "prevalence rate" means the number of cases of leprosy
in time as a proportion of the total population;
      (i)   "Project State" means any State of the Borrower in which
the Project, or any part thereof, is carried out;
      (j)   "Project Union Territory" means any Union Territory of
the Borrower in which the Project, or any part thereof, is carried
out; and
      (k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower,on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 60,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
Page  3
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2000 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shallpromptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15
commencing November 15, 2003 and ending May 15, 2028. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15,
2013 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of
some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under
the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Page  4
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall (i)
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and health
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project; and (ii) cause the Project States to carry out
the Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement as
well as the respective Letters of Undertaking and shall take and cause
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
the Project States to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to each Project State for such part of the Project as is
carried out respectively by that Project State, in accordance with
the Borrower's standard arrangements for developmental assistance
to the States of India.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Section 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the
Project shall be carried out respectively by the Project States
pursuant to the terms of any Letter of Undertaking.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that prior to the
Project being carried out in the following Project States, such
States shall duly execute and deliver to the Association a Letter
of Undertaking with form and content satisfactory to the Association,
including actions and programs set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement: Arunachal Pradesh, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka,
Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Orissa, Rajasthan,
Sikkim, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall carry out, and shall cause
the Project States to carry out the NLEP and shall inform the
Association of any change to NLEP that may materially and
adversely affect the implementation of the Project or the realization of its
objectives.
      Section 3.07. Without any limitation to any other provision
in this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
Project Union Territories in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement.
      Section 3.08. Without any limitation to any other provision
in this Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that Project States
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation
Page  5
program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.09. Without limitation to the generality of any
other provision of this Agreement, the Borrower shall (i) review
annually with the Association progress in Project implementation
over the preceding twelve months and shall prepare and furnish to
the Association during such review a work plan for the twelve
months following such review; (ii) carry out, no later than July 31,
1997, along with the Association, a mid-term review of the Project and
shall duly take into account the comments offered by the
Association during such review, in the course of further implementation of the
Project.
      Section 3.10. The Borrower shall by December 31, 1997,
discuss with the Association options for the future utilization of the
staff assigned to the NLEP, duly taking into account the results of the
mid-term review of Project implementation referred to in Section
3.09 of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices its operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower as well as each Project State or Project
Union Territory, responsible for carrying out any part of the
Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than nine months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                  with sound accounting practices, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                  at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                  which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
                  was made;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
Page  6
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such auditors contains a separate opinion by
                  said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   Any Project State shall have failed to perform any of
its respective obligations under this Agreement, or the Letter of
Undertaking, as the case may be.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that any Project State will perform
its respective obligations under this Agreement, or the Letter of
Undertaking as the case may be.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to
the Borrower and the Project State.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Director,
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic
Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            The Secretary to the Government of India
            Ministry of Finance
            Department of Economic Affairs
            New Delhi, India
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  ECOFAIRS                  953-3166175
                  New Delhi
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
Page  7
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        INDIA
                        By /s/ N. Valluri
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Equipment,               19,600,000        100% of foreign
     material,                                  expenditures,
     medicines,                                 100% of local
     and vehicles                               expenditures,
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures
                                                for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally
(2)  Consultants'              8,500,000        100%
     services and
     training
(3)  Contractual              21,600,000        85%
     services
(4)  Publicity services        3,500,000        85%
Page  8
(5)  Incremental               1,500,000        50%
     honoraria
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6)  Incremental operation     1,300,000        50%
     and maintenance costs
     of vehicles
(7)  Unallocated               4,000,000
                             ___________
         TOTAL                60,000,000
                             ===========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the terms "incremental honoraria" and "incremental
operation and maintenance costs of vehicles" mean the costs
incurred for salaries and operational and maintenance of vehicles
respectively under the NLEP in excess of such costs incurred in FY
1992-1993.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures (i) incurred in any State which is not a Project State as
such term is defined in this Agreement; (ii) incurred by any of the
following States unless it shall first have executed and delivered
to the Association a Letter of Undertaking: Arunachal Pradesh,
Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh,
Maharashtra, Manipur, Orissa, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Uttar Pradesh and
West Bengal; and (iii) prior to the date of this Agreement except
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,100,000), may be made
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after March 31, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The main objective of the Project is to eliminate leprosy as
a public health problem in India by the year 2000 by reducing the
country wide leprosy prevalence rate from 2.4 per 1,000 people to
0.1 per 1,000 or less, and reducing national leprosy prevalence to
less than 100,000 cases. To this end, the Project would seek to
provide treatment to about 2,200,000 persons currently affected by
leprosy, as well as about 1,800,000 persons expected to contract
the disease. The Project would also aim to reduce the impact of
physical disability arising from leprosy.
      The Project would support the implementation of the NLEP in
Project States and Project Union Territories for a part of its
duration and consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association from time to time:
Part A:     Expansion of Multidrug Therapy
Page  9
      Provision of multidrug therapy, with the participation of
beneficiary communities, in about 66 districts where the multidrug
therapy program is not yet fully operational and 135 districts
where the multidrug therapy program is currently being implemented, all
with high levels of leprosy endemicity including prevalence rates
exceeding 5 persons per thousand, selected on the basis of
criteria satisfactory to the Association, by the provision, inter alia, of
health personnel, the provision of assistance to District Leprosy
Societies, the establishment of service delivery circuits,
undertaking rapid surveys of leprosy cases, provision of medical
treatment, patient surveillance, ulcer care and patient health
education.
Part B:     Integration of Multidrug Therapy into the Primary
            Health Care System
      (1)   Provision of multidrug therapy through the existing
primary health care system in about 77 districts with moderate
levels of leprosy endemicity and with leprosy prevalence rates
between 2 and 5 persons per thousand, selected on the basis of
criteria acceptable to the Association, by the provision, inter
alia, of incremental personnel for primary health care, provision
of treatment and the training of primary health care staff.
      (2)   Provision of the assistance described in Part B(1) of
this Schedule, to selected pockets of leprosy infection covering
an estimated 40,000 affected people in areas with low levels of
leprosy endemicity and leprosy prevalence rates of less than 2 persons per
thousand.
Part C:     Disability Care and Prevention
      Reduction of the occurrence of impairments inter alia by
patient health education and the provision of appropriate
materials necessary for such reduction; limiting or reversing disability
caused by impairments inter alia by ulcer care, therapy and
treatment; and preventing disabilities from developing into
handicaps inter alia by reconstructive surgery for correcting
deformities.
Part D:     Promoting Public Awareness and Community
            Participation:
      Promoting public awareness including attenuating fears of
leprosy and prejudice against leprosy patients, as well as
encouraging early treatment inter alia through information,
education and communication activities (IEC) such as community
awareness camps, orientation training camps, radio, television,
newspapers and other mass media, and extension education.
Part E:     Enhancing Skills and Institutional Development
      (1)   Training of NLEP staff, primary health center staff and
multi purpose workers selected for Project implementation under
Part A of the Project, inter alia to facilitate integration of leprosy
control activities into regular health services, identification of
standards and practices for multidrug therapy, disability care and
patient management.
      (2)   Strengthening of the Borrower's Central Coordination
Cell for the Project, as well as development of training
capabilities and outreach patient care activities in the
Borrower's Leprosy Training and Research Institutes.
                            *    *    *
      The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1999.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  10
Section I:  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide
that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such
an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by
the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A (1) hereof, goods manufactured in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for medical equipment estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
of $2,000,000 equivalent, shall be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    (a)   Anti-leprosy medicines estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of
$5,300,000 equivalent; (b) office and medical equipment estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of $5,300,000 equivalent; (c) vehicles estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of $2,400,000 equivalent; and (d) materials
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount of $1,500,000 equivalent, may be
procured under quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Off-the-shelf supportive medicines estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $10,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
of $1,900,000 equivalent; and off-the-shelf materials for disability
care estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount of $1,700,000 equivalent, may
be procured under quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
4.    Publicity services under Part D of the Project estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of $6,200,000, as well as medico-surgical
services for reconstructive surgery estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of
$4,500,000 equivalent shall be procured in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Page  11
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost more
than $100,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines) shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower and Project States in
carrying out the Project, each of them shall employ consultants with
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultants Guidelines).
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior
approval by the Association of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports
and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior review
by the  Association shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association and to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.     The Borrower shall ensure that the Project States shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the Borrower's Guidelines for
Multidrug Treatment of NLEP, 1989.
2.    The Borrower shall ensure that Project States shall
discontinue the use of Dapsone monotherapy in each district where
the Project is implemented within twelve months of multidrug
Page  12
therapy becoming available for distribution in such district.
3.    The Borrower shall ensure that Project States shall
implementthe Project in tribal areas in accordance with the plan agreed
with the Association which inter alia provides for the informed
participation of tribal populations in planning and designing the
Project in their communities.
4.    The Borrower shall obtain or ensure that Project States
obtain, from each District Leprosy Society which carries out the
Project, an undertaking, with form and content acceptable to the
Association, regarding the carrying out of the Project by such
Society.
5.    Without limitation to the generality of any other provision
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that Project States (i)
shall review annually with the Association progress in Project
implementation over the preceding twelve months and a proposed
annual work plan for the next twelve months; and (ii) carry out,
no later than July 31, 1997, along with the Association, a mid-term
review of the project and shall, in further implementation of the
Project, duly take into account the comments offered by the
Association during such review.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
Page  13
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
            (i)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
                  determined that all further withdrawals should be
                  made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
                  Account in accordance with the provisions of
                  Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
                  (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
           (ii)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
                  allocated to the eligible Categories less the
                  amount of any outstanding special commitment
                  entered into by the Association pursuant to
                  Section 5.02 of the respective General Conditions
                  with respect to the Project, shall equal the
                  equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
                  Allocation.
      (b)   Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund  to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
Page  14
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement.
