Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15831
IIPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
(LOAN 2943-CHA)
June 27, 1996
Industry and Energy Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Name: Renminbi (RMB)
Currency Unit: Yuan (Y) = 100 Fen
(As of January 1, 1988)
Y 1.00 = $0.27
Y3.70 = $1.00
(As of December 31, 1994)
Y 1.00 =$0.118
Y 8.50 = $1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres
I metric ton (ton) = 1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 kilometer (km) = 0.621 miles
I cubic meter (m3) = 35.3147 cubic feet (cf)
1 kilocalorie (kcal) = 3,968 British Thermal Unit
I kilowatt (kW) = I 000 watts
I megawatt (Mw) = 1,000 kilowatts (kW)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIB        -    China Investment Bank
CPE        -    Centrally Planned Economy
EEC        -    European Economic Community
FDA        -    US Food and Drug Administration
GDP        -    Gross Domestic Product
GMP        -    Good Manufacturing Practice
GOC        -    Government of the People's Republic of China
GSP        -    Good Shop Practice
ITC        -    International Tendering Company
MOF        -    Ministry of Finance
MOPH       -    Ministry of Public Health
QCC        -    Henan Provincial Pharmaceutical Quality Control Center
R&D        -    Research and Development
SEC        -    State Economic Commission
SINOPEC   -    China Petrochemical Corporation
SPAC       -    State Pharmaceutical Administration of China
SPB        -    State Pricing Bureau
SPC        -    State Planning Commission
TCM        -    Traditional Chinese Medicines
TNC        -    Transnational Pharmaceutical Company
tpd        -    tons per day
tpy        -    tons per year
UNICEF    -    United Nations Children's Fund
UNIDO      -    United Nations Industrial Development Organization
WHO        -    World Health Organization
ZYPF       -    Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory
ZYPFPO    -    Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory Preparation Office



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE ...........................................................                                                                      ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...........................................................                                                            iv
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .................................1
A. Project Objectives ............................................................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ............................................................2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ................5
D. Project Sustainability ............................................................6
E. Bank  Performance ............................................................8
F. Borrower Performance ............................................................8
G. Assessment of Outcome ............................................................8
H. Future  Operation ............................................................9
I. Key  Lessons Learned ............................................................9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ...........................................................                                                   11
Table  1:  Summary  of Assessments ............................................................                             1 1
Table  2:  Related  Bank  Loans ...........................................................                                  12
Table  3:  Project Timetable ...........................................................                                     12
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ..... 12
Table  5:  Key  Indicators for Project Implementation ...................................... 13
Table  6:  Key  Indicators for Project Operation ................................................ 14
Table  7:  Studies Included  in  Project ...........................................................     14
Table  8A:  Project Costs ...........................................................                                        14
Table  8B:  Project Financing ...........................................................                                    15
Table  9:  Financial and  Economic  Benefits ..................................................... 15
Table  10:  Status of Legal Covenants ...........................................................   16
Table 1 1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ......................... 17
Table  12:  Bank  Resources: Staff Inputs .......................................................... 17
Table  13:  Bank  Resources:  Missions ........................................................... 17
APPENDICES
Appendix A: Zhong Yuan Pharnaceutical Component Income Statement ............... 18
Appendix B: Zhong Yuan Pharmaceutical Component Balance Sheet ...................... 19
Appendix C: Zhong Yuan Pharmaceutical Component Fund Source And
Application ..........................................................                                           20
Appendix D: ICR Preparation Mission's Aide Memoire ........................................... 21
Attachment 1:  List of Persons Met ..........................................................                                 28
Attachment 2:  Operational Plans ..........................................................                                   29
Appendix  E:  Borrower's Contribution  to  the ICR ...................................................... 33
T| is document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- 111 -
CHINA
PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
(LOAN 2943-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Pharmaceuticals
Project in China, for which Loan 2943-CHA in the amount of $127.0 million equivalent
was approved on May 24, 1988, and made effective on February 17, 1989.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1994, compared with the original closing
date of December 31, 1993. Final disbursement took place on March 29, 1995, at which
time a balance of $0.344 million was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Roger Heath, IENIM, with assistance from Mr.
David Caplin, Consultant, and reviewed by Mr. Austin Hu, Acting Chief, EA2EM, and
Mr. Juergen Voegele, Acting Project Adviser, EA2DR. The borrower and implementing
agencies and enterprises provided their contribution as shown in Appendix E to this ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's project completion mission,
January 13-25, 1995. It is based on discussions with the Borrower, the Staff Appraisal
Report, Loan and Project Agreements, supervision reports, and the Project Completion
Reports submitted by the borrower and implementing enterprises, and on material in the
project file. The State Pharmaceutical Administration of China also provided views and
data on the project and plans and progress for implementing Good Manufacturing
Practice in the Pharmaceutical Sector.






- iv -
CHINA
PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
(LOAN 2943-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction and Project Objectives
I1.    The Project was designed to assist China in reaching the following objectives in
the pharmaceutical sector:
.  Expanding pharmaceutical production using modem technologies to match
changing demand and increase the potential for export from the
pharmaceutical subsector through the establishment of new vitamin C
production capacity.
-  Improving the quality of pharmaceutical products and their manufacturing
practice through improving pharmaceutical product quality control in Henan
Province; and introducing Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) in selected
enterprises and training programs in all aspects of GMP.
3  Improving the quality of training, maintenance, marketing, management and
GMP in the pharmaceutical industry by emphasizing these aspects in the
investment components.
2.    The objectives were clear and achievable. They also conformed to Government
priorities for the pharmaceutical sector regarding modernizing production capacity,
improving quality control, and moving toward nationwide introduction of GMP
standards.
3.    The Project had the following major components:
(a)   establishment at Zhong Yuan, Zhengzhou City, Henan Province, of
facilities using modem technology for the production of 5,000 tpa of
Vitamin C and related products;
(b)   establishment in Zhengzhou City of the Henan Province Quality Control
Center for analyzing and monitoring the quality of pharmaceutical raw
materials, intermediates and finished products;
(c)   implementation of GMP in selected demonstration facilities at the
Shanghai No. 4 and Shandong Xinhua Pharmaceutical Factories; and,



- v -
(d)   implementation of a training program  by the State Pharmaceutical
Administration of China (SPAC) in GMP methodologies and techniques
for staff of SPAC, design institutes and enterprises.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The Zhong Yuan Pharmaceutical Factory commenced trial of a key
intermediate in April 1992, 3 months behind the original schedule, and vitamin C
production-the main product-in 1993, 1 1 months later than the original estimate. This
was a creditable performance given the complex nature of the project and late delivery of
some critical imported equipment.  However, the project has experienced serious
technical difficulties in achieving sustained production at design parameters of a number
of intermediates and final products, especially vitamin C. As a result, additional financial
resources are required until 1997-when the company is projected to be financially self-
supporting-for the factory to meet all its financial obligations. Financing requirements
were almost three times higher than originally estimated due to much higher local
inflation than anticipated, increased foreign exchange costs due to depreciation of the US
dollar against contract currencies, additional imported goods and services required after
startup, and higher interest during construction arising from the longer period for
production buildup. The re-estimated financial and economic rates of return are much
lower than expected at appraisal: financial rates of return before and after tax were
estimated at appraisal at 26 percent and 20 percent, respectively; recalculations based on
actual and projected production build up are l1 and 10 percent, respectively. The
economic rate of return is 1 1 percent compared to the appraisal estimate of 34 percent.
This was the only component for which benefits were quantified at appraisal.
5.    The Henan Pharmaceutical Quality Control Center commenced operation in
1991, 30 months later than the original schedule due to delays in site acquisition and
availability of domestic finance. In light of revised demand estimates, some of the very
sophisticated analytical capacity originally specified, representing 20 percent of total
equipment cost, was not installed. As a consequence of deregulation, the official work
load of the Center, as part of the Henan Provincial Pharmaceutical Bureau, is less than
expected as enterprises themselves are now responsible for much of the routine analytical
work required for finished product quality control.  To better utilize the Center's
facilities, other work on a fee basis is being undertaken. The Center still plays an
important role in monitoring the quality of pharmaceuticals produced and distributed.
The objective of improving pharmaceutical quality control has thus been met in Henan
Province, although the role of the Center in achieving this objective is less than originally
planned.
6.    The GMP Component at Xinhua, comprising tablet production, commenced
successful operation in 1994, 24 months later than originally scheduled, but within the
revised schedule submitted shortly after loan effectiveness. The delay was due mainly to
site clearance problems and delayed availability of counterpart funds. Overall, costs and
financing required were double those originally estimated due to higher local costs arising



- vi -
from much higher than anticipated local inflation. The facilities and quality control
management systems have been designed, with the assistance of foreign consultants, to
conform to the GMP standards of the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), one of
the most exacting standards in the pharmaceutical sector. This component represents the
first successful introduction of international GMP standards to a Chinese-owned
pharmaceutical formulation plant. The component has generated considerable interest
within the pharmaceutical sector and many visits have been made by local enterprises and
institutions to learn from the Xinhua experience. The project has also been closely
monitored by SPAC to draw lessons for the introduction of GMP nationwide and
disseminate the project experience throughout China.
7.    The GMP Component at Shanghai No. 4, comprising injectibles production, is
due to commence operation in July 1995, some 40 months later than originally scheduled
due to difficulties in securing local finance and the need to relocate the project from the
original site at the company's main facility to a new "green field" site in Pudong. The
relocation was due to the loss of part of the original site area to the construction of a
major highway by the Municipality. The capital cost and financing requirements are
almost three times those estimated at appraisal due to high local costs arising from the
increased project scope as a consequence of the relocation, and higher local inflation than
anticipated. The component is designed to meet FDA GMP standards and is expected to
meet the objectives for this component. It has generated very considerable interest within
the pharmaceutical sector and has also been closely monitored by SPAC.
8.    The SPAC Training and GMP Component training program commenced in
December 1988, and has been carried out in China at a number of the joint venture
pharmaceutical plants that have received FDA approval. It comprised the training of staff
of the various project components, and special symposiums. There was also extensive
foreign training at engineering and design consulting firms, and at a formulations plant.
The Ministry of Health has now promulgated the GMP standards that will govern the
manufacturing quality standards for the pharmaceuticals sector during the Ninth Five
Year Plan.  SPAC will submit a nationwide GMP implementation report to the
Government that is expected to recommend mandatory GMP standards with an initial
goal of 80 percent of the pharmaceutical plants meeting the new GMP standards by the
year 2000. Initial estimates for the cost of this GMP program are Y 15 billion.
9.    Actual project costs totaled Y 1,044 million in local costs and $159.2 million in
foreign costs, compared to the appraisal estimates of Y 340 million and $130 million.
The main factor responsible for increased local costs was inflation-driven price increases.
Other factors affecting costs are described above. The costs were covered by the Bank
loan for $127 million, domestic loans (often for much more than envisioned at appraisal),
internal cash generation and, for the Zhong Yuan component, equity participation by
Henan Province.
10.   All of the Project objectives were met. Performance of all project components as
regards meeting initial schedule and cost estimates was deficient, but this was largely for



- vii -
reasons outside of the control of the project entities and, except in the case of Zhong
Yuan, has not impacted on long-term project performance. Overall, the Project is judged
to be sustainable. Although the financial performance of the Zhong Yuan Pharmaceutical
Factory is much lower than expected, many of the technical problems encountered have
been solved, and a program dealing with the remaining problems, which are now well
understood, was completed in 1995. Providing this program is successful, the long-term
future of the factory would be ensured. The Henan Quality Control Center plays an
important, albeit lesser, role than expected in the analyses and monitoring of the quality
of pharmaceutical products in Henan Province as routine enterprise analytical work is
now the direct responsibility of the particular enterprise. The GMP Projects at Xinhua
and Shanghai No. 4, both of which are now joint stock companies, have been successful
and are seen as key factors in the companies' future development both in improving
product quality and in exporting higher value product. There is thus a very strong
commercial interest in extending GMP to other facilities of the companies and
maximizing the benefits from the Project. SPAC has successfully completed the first
stage of the process for nationwide introduction of GMP. Through the training program
and the implementation of the pilot projects at Xinhua and Shanghai No. 4, it has built up
expertise in designing facilities to international GMP standards, specifying appropriate
GMP standards for China, and auditing facilities for GMP compliance. It has also been
instrumental in having the Ministry of Health promulgate nationwide GMP standards.
The initial institutional prerequisites for nationwide introduction of GMP have thus been
largely met. The eventual implementation of GMP in all of the pharmaceutical facilities
is a high priority of SPAC and the Ministry of Health to ensure that pharmaceuticals are
manufactured, packaged, and delivered to appropriate quality control standards. The
introduction of GMP is also essential for international competitiveness of the sector. The
costs for introduction of GMP are considerable as many of the existing production
facilities, especially formulation plants, would have to be replaced. Nevertheless, based
in part on the results of the project, SPAC intends to vigorously pursue the
implementation of GMP.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
11.   Overall, there was a very strong commitment of the borrower and the project
entities at all levels to meet the Project Objectives. Additional key factors, for individual
components, are assessed below.
12.   Preparation of the Zhong Yuan Pharmaceutical Factory had included extensive
feasibility studies with Chinese and international consultants so that project scope and
implementation arrangements were very well defined, enabling construction of the
project to proceed quickly. All of the entities involved in the project (Henan Provincial
Government, Zhengzhou Municipal Government, and SPAC) showed a very high level of
commitment to the project in ensuring that the following were available: financing on a
timely basis, use of a top construction contractor, technical expertise from other
enterprises and institutions in China to assist in solving the commissioning and startup
problems that the project encountered, and reorganization of the management structure of



- viii -
the factory. While the implementation organization of the factory was strong, it became
apparent after plant startup that it needed strengthening for the operational phase, and
effective measures to strengthen management were put in place in 1994.
13.   Preparation for the GMP Component at Shanghai No. 4 and Xinhua was
soundly based on recommendations arising from audits carried out during project
preparation by international consultants working with local consultants.  Qualified
international consultants were selected (the same for both projects) to work with and
supervise the local consultants at critical stages to ensure that facilities were designed and
constructed to GMP, and to audit the facilities on completion.  The international
consultants built up strong and effective relationships with the staff of the two companies
and the local consultants (the same local consultants had worked on preparation of the
GMP component and the preparation and implementation of the Zhong Yuan
component), who were highly qualified and carried out their work very effectively.
14.   The SPAC Training and GMP Component benefited from the strong leadership
that SPAC has provided in the pharmaceutical sector. SPAC was thus well placed to use
many of the resources and skills available in the sector to carry out an effective training
program and develop realistic GMP standards and programs.
15.   The Bank played an important role in identification and preparation of the Project
by providing technical, financial and management advice during implementation and
extensively exchanging views with SPAC on the implementation of GMP on a
nationwide basis. SPAC provided a very active and effective coordination and leadership
role. Henan Provincial Government and Zhengzhou Municipality, two of the major
beneficiaries, provided very strong support to the Zhong Yuan Pharmaceutical Factory
component. Procurement for the project was handled efficiently with remarkably few
problems and procedural delays.
16.   Overall, the Project is rated as satisfactory as the major objectives of the project
have been met and all components are considered sustainable. However, the outcome of
the Zhong Yuan Component is still dependent on the successful completion of the
program to solve the remaining technical problems that are impeding performance.
Henan Quality Control Center is playing an important role and the services of the Center
are now available to others. The GMP component (Xinhua and Shanghai No. 4) and the
SPAC Training and GMP components have clearly met all their objectives: the pilot
projects are already having a strong demonstration effect throughout the sector, and
SPAC is now well prepared for the introduction of GMP on a nationwide basis.
17.   The Project demonstrated the value of careful preparation and the early
involvement of local consultants in assisting in project preparation so that country
specific factors are adequately addressed, and there is confidence at all levels that the
project scope is rational and achievable. The value of strong, sustained commitment and
leadership was also demonstrated in the speedy construction of the facilities and the



- Ix -
implementation of measures for resolution of the operating and difficult technical
problems that the Zhong Yuan Component has faced and still faces.
18.   The Zhong Yuan component highlighted the complex problems that can develop
in technology transfer. For key technologies that have restricted availability, it would
have served the project better to have achieved technology transfer via a joint venture
project with a holder of the key technology, or as would have been feasible, to have relied
solely on indigenous Chinese technology in addition to the patented Chinese technology
successfully used for the first stage of vitamin C production, and accepted the resulting
lower overall productivity in terms of energy and conversion efficiencies.
19.  It was intended that the GMP component should provide the first step toward
introducing GMP on a nationwide basis. The Chinese authorities have now incorporated
plans for the comprehensive introduction of GMP into the country's next five-year plan,
and the Government is actively seeking financing assistance for the introduction of GMP
to the entire Chinese Pharmaceutical Industry. Introduction of international standards of
GMP (an issue facing many developing countries and those with economies in transition)
is a complex process requiring considerable Government leadership and commitment to
institutional development including an appropriate regulatory system. Introduction of
GMP where there is a significant established industry, as in China, can benefit from pilot
operations such as this project that have strong Government and enterprise support that
demonstrate to policymakers, regulatory authorities, and the sector enterprises the
problems that arise and their solutions in successfully implementing GMP.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
(LOAN 2943-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The Project was designed to assist China in reaching the following objectives in
the pharmaceutical sector:
(a)   expanding pharmaceutical production using modem technologies to match
changing demand and to increase the potential for export from the
pharmaceutical subsector through the establishment of new vitamin C
production capacity;
(b)   improving the quality of pharmaceutical products and their manufacturing
practice through:
(i)   improving pharmaceutical product quality control in Henan
Province;
(ii)   introducing Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) in selected
enterprises;
(iii)   training programs in all aspects of GMP; and
(c)   improvement of the quality  of training, maintenance, marketing,
management and GMP in the pharmaceutical industry by emphasizing
these aspects in the investment components.
2.    The objectives were clear and achievable. They also conformed to Government
priorities for the pharmaceutical sector as regards modernizing production capacity,
improving quality control, and moving toward nationwide introduction of GMP
standards.
Project Description
3.    The Project had the following major components:
(a)   establishment at Zhong Yuan, Zhengzhou City, Henan Province, of new
large-scale facilities using modern technology for the production of 5,000



- 2 -
tpa of Vitamin C, as well as quantities of other products, such as starches,
dextrose, sorbitol, etc.;
(b)   establishment within the Henan Provincial Pharmaceutical Bureau, in
Zhengzhou City, of the Henan Province Quality Control Center for
analyzing and monitoring the quality of phannaceutical raw materials,
intermediates and finished products;
(c)   implementation of viable procedures and necessary investments for the
adoption of GMP in selected demonstration facilities at the Shanghai
No. 4 (injectibles) and Shandong Xinhua (tablets) Pharmaceutical
Factories; and,
(d)   in parallel with the above components and utilizing the training
opportunities afforded by the components, implementation of a training
program by the State Pharmaceutical Administration of China (SPAC) in
GMP methodologies and techniques for staff of SPAC, design institutes
and enterprises.  This was in furtherance of SPAC's program  for
introduction of GMP standards and, by agreement, was monitored by the
Bank.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.    Zhong Yuan Pharmaceutical Factory. The factory commenced trial production
of starch, a key intermediate, in April 1992, three months behind the original schedule.
Vitamin C production commenced in 1993, 11 months later than the original estimate;
still a creditable performance given the complex nature of the project and delays in the
arrival of some of the critical imported equipment. However, the project experienced
serious difficulties in achieving sustained production at design parameters of a number of
intermediates and final products due to equipment and process design problems. The
equipment and process problems encountered with the final stages of vitamin C
production are particularly serious as sales of vitamin C constitute the major revenue
source of the project. As a result, the build up of production has been much slower than
predicted and production at over 90 percent of design capacity for vitamin C is not now
expected, based on a phased plan to correct equipment and process problems, until 1998,
five years later than originally predicted. Due to the low production rates in the early
years of the project, additional financial resources are required from Henan Province and
Zhengzhou Municipal Governments until 1997, at which time the enterprise is projected
to be self supporting, for the factory to meet all its financial obligations. The financing
requirements (see Tables 8A and 8B) were almost three times higher than originally
estimated. For the period up to the start of operations in 1993, foreign costs for goods
and services were some 5 percent higher than appraisal estimates due to the significant
appreciation of contract currencies against the US dollar after all the major process
package contracts had been awarded. Total foreign exchange requirements, however,
were within appraisal estimates as interest during construction for the period (financed



under the loan) was less than estimated. Overall, for the period up to the ICR mission,
foreign exchange costs are 26 percent higher than appraisal estimates due to interest and
principal repayment from the start of operations and to additional foreign goods (spare
parts, catalysts and chemicals) and services required. Local costs until completion were
considerably higher than appraisal estimates due to higher local inflation than anticipated,
higher interest during construction due to interest rates above those estimated at appraisal,
and the longer period for production buildup. The financial and economic rates of return
are, in consequence, much lower than expected: financial rates of return before and after
tax were estimated at appraisal at 26 and 20 percent respectively; recalculations based on
actual and projected production build up are 11 and 10 percent, respectively. The
economic rate of return at appraisal was calculated at 34 percent (the large difference
from the financial rate of return being the then low domestic prices for the project
output); under prevailing market conditions the economic rate of return is essentially the
same as the financial rate of return before tax, or II percent. This was the only
component with quantified benefits in the SAR.
5.    Henan Pharmaceutical Quality Control Center.  The Center commenced
operation in 1991, 30 months later than planned in the original schedule. The delay was
mainly due to procedural delays in acquiring the site for the Center and availability of
domestic finance. During the course of project implementation, it became apparent that
there was an inadequate demand to justify some of the very sophisticated analytical
capacity originally specified. This analytical equipment, representing 20 percent of total
equipment cost, was not installed. The demand for the Center's services was expected to
come solely from the Henan Provincial Pharmaceutical Bureau and the Municipal
Pharmaceutical Bureaus within the Province. However, as a consequence of deregulation
within the pharmaceutical sector, much of the routine analytical work for quality control
at the enterprise level is now an enterprise responsibility so that the analytical work load
from the pharmaceutical bureaus is less than expected: the role of the Center is now the
selective monitoring of the quality of pharmaceuticals marketed by the enterprises,
particularly at the various levels of distribution. To better utilize the Center's facilities,
Henan Provincial Pharmaceutical Bureau has authorized the Center to take on other work
on a fee basis to make up for the lower work load from the pharmaceutical bureaus. The
objective of improving pharmaceutical quality control has thus been met in Henan
Province, although the role of the Center in achieving this objective is less important than
originally planned.
6.    GMP  Component-Xinhua.   The GMP facilities for tablet production
commenced successful operation in 1994, 24 months later than originally estimated at
appraisal although within the revised schedule submitted to the Bank shortly after loan
effectiveness. The delay was due mainly to site clearance issues as other work on the site
had to be completed before the area for the new GMP building could be made available.
There was also a problem with the availability of counterpart funds. Overall costs and
financing required (see Tables 8A and 8B) were double those estimated: foreign costs
were within appraisal estimates, local costs were much higher due to higher local
inflation than anticipated and higher interest during construction. Originally, all of the
I



- 4 -
local costs were planned to be financed by self-raised funds; however, part of the
additional local funds required was financed through local banks. The facilities and
quality control management systems have been designed, with the assistance of foreign
consultants, to conform to the GMP standards of the US Food and Drug Administration
(FDA), one of the most exacting standards in the pharmaceutical sector. Production from
the facilities has been in line with planned targets that only single-shift operation (50
percent capacity) would be reached in the first 18 months to allow for quality control
problems to be worked out and for personnel financing for a second shift. This
component of the project represents the first successful introduction of international GMP
standards for a Chinese-owned pharmaceutical formulation plant.  As such, the
component has generated considerable interest within the pharmaceutical sector and
many visits have been made by local enterprises and institutions to learn from the Xinhua
experience. The component has been closely monitored by SPAC to draw lessons for the
introduction of GMP nationwide, and to disseminate the project experience throughout
China.
7.    GMP Component-Shanghai No. 4.  The GMP facilities for injectibles
commenced operation in July 1995, some 40 months later than originally scheduled. The
implementation delay was due to difficulties in securing local finance, the need to
relocate the project from the original site at the company's main facility to a new "green
field" site in the Pudong area, and the resulting need to construct utilities and other
services not originally included in the project scope. The need for relocation arose
because the Municipality constructed a major highway that cuts through the main facility
and occupies some 3,000 square meters of the plant site: insufficient space was then
available for the GMP project. The capital cost and financing requirements (see Tables
8A and 8B) are almost three times those estimated at appraisal. Foreign costs were
within appraisal estimates. Local costs were much higher due to the increased project
scope as a consequence of the relocation, higher local inflation than anticipated, and
higher interest during construction due to the need to finance part of the increase in local
costs through debt instead of equity as originally planned. As at Xinhua, the company
started operations with just one shift until all startup production and quality control
problems are worked out and the personnel for a second shift are thoroughly trained.
This is expected to be accomplished in the second half of 1996. The component, as with
that of Xinhua, has generated considerable interest within the pharmaceutical sector and
has also been closely monitored by SPAC.
8.    SPAC  Training  and GMP  Component.  The GMP training program
commenced in December 1988 with the "train the trainers" phase in which nine key staff
received at least 12 months training in drafting GMP feasibility studies, GMP in
engineering and construction, GMP in production and quality control, and economic and
accounting aspects of GMP. Training was carried out in China at a number of the joint
venture pharmaceutical plants that have received FDA approval, at courses conducted as
part of the training of staff of the other project components, and at special symposiums.
There was also extensive foreign training of the trainers at engineering and design
consultants, and at a foreign company's formulations plant. A special committee for



- 5 -
GMP was formed in 1992, and the Ministry of Health has now promulgated the GMP
standards that will govern the manufacturing quality standards for the pharmaceuticals
sector during the Ninth Five-Year Plan. A number of pharmaceutical plants will be
audited by SPAC to determine the requirements for meeting GMP, and based on the
findings, SPAC will submit a nationwide GMP implementation report to the Government
that is expected to recommend mandatory GMP standards. The goal would be that by the
year 2000, 80 percent of the pharmaceutical plants would meet the new mandatory GMP
standards. Initial estimates for the cost of this GMP program are Y 15 billion.
9.    Actual project costs totaled Y 1,044 million in local costs and $159.2 million in
foreign costs, compared to the appraisal estimates of Y 340 million and $130 million.
The main factor increasing local costs was inflation-induced price increases. Other
factors affecting costs are discussed above. The costs were covered by the Bank loan for
$127 million, domestic loans (often for much more than expected at appraisal), internal
cash generation and, for the Zhong Yuan component, equity participation by Henan
Province.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
10.   Overall, there was a very strong commitment of the borrower and the project
entities at all levels to meeting the Project Objectives. Additional key factors, for
individual components are assessed below:
(a)   Zhong Yuan Pharmaceutical Factory. Preparation of the component
had included extensive feasibility studies carried out initially with Chinese
consultant only and finally with Chinese and international consultants. As
a result, the project scope and implementation arrangements were very
well-defined which enabled construction of the project to proceed quickly.
All of the entities involved in the project, (Henan Provincial Government,
Zhengzhou Municipal Government, and SPAC), showed a very high level
of commitment to the project in ensuring that financing was available on a
timely basis, persuading the Ministry of Chemical Industries to allocate
one of its top construction contractors to the project, marshaling technical
expertise from other enterprises and institutions in China to assist in
solving the commissioning and startup problems that the project
encountered, and reorganizing the management structure of the factory.
While the implementation organization during construction was strong, it
became apparent during the operating phase that it was weak in the skills
and structure necessary for operation, and that a number of the aspects in
the implementation affecting operation (specification and choice of
technology, technology transfer, training) had not been adequately dealt
with.  This was recognized in late 1993 and effective measures to
strengthen management were put in place in 1994. The number of
suppliers for the process packages was lower than expected and several
recognized suppliers that had expressed considerable interest during the



- 6 -
preparation stage failed to submit bids. The element of competition and
choice in the bidding process was thus much less than had been expected.
(b)   GMP Component-Shanghai No. 4 and Xinhua. The scope of these
components was soundly based on recommendations arising from audits
carried out, during project preparation, by international consultants
working with local consultants that identified the measures required to
upgrade the selected formulation operations to GMP standards in the two
pharmaceutical companies.  Qualified international consultants were
selected (the same for both projects) to work with and supervise the local
consultants at critical stages to ensure that facilities were designed and
constructed to GMP, and to audit the facilities upon completion. The
consultants also provided training for project and design staff, and for
SPAC officials. The international consultants built up strong and effective
relationships with the local consultants and the staff of the two companies.
The local consultants (these worked on preparation of the GMP
component and the preparation and implementation of the Zhong Yuan
component) were highly qualified and carried out their work very
effectively.
(c)   SPAC Training and GMP Component. SPAC has provided strong
leadership in the pharmaceutical sector and has thus been well placed to
use many of the resources and skills available in the sector to carry out an
effective training program and develop realistic GMP standards and
implementation program.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
11.   All of the Project objectives were met. Performance of all project components as
regards meeting initial schedule and cost estimates was deficient, but this was largely
outside of the control of the project entities. Overall, the Project is judged to be
sustainable. Sustainability for the individual components is assessed below:
(a)   Zhong Yuan Pharmaceutical Factory.  The initial financial and
economic performance of the factory was much lower than expected due
to technical and operating problems. However, many of these problems
have been solved; those remaining have been extensively studied under the
leadership of SPAC utilizing expertise from throughout the
pharmaceutical sector. Modifications to critical processes using proven
Chinese technology have been made. In addition, a number of important
management changes have been made:  the new Chief Executive
appointed in 1994 is now responsible for all aspects of company
performance, and the operations have been strengthened by the
appointment of highly qualified staff from other enterprises. The plans for
production build up developed by the new management team are



- 7 -
conservative and are achievable: vitamin C production would increase
from the 1995 level of 30 percent of design capacity (vitamin C
production in 1995 was interrupted while the process modifications were
made) rising to 80 percent in 1997, 94 percent in 1999, and 100 percent in
2000. Demand and prices for the output of the factory are higher than
originally estimated so that the commercial outlook is good. Once stable
production at satisfactory levels has been achieved, the factory plans to
expand vitamin C production capacity and to produce formulations of a
number of its products.
(b)   Henan Quality Control Center. The Center plays an important, albeit
lesser, role than expected in the analyses and monitoring of the quality of
pharmaceutical products in Henan Province. The Center is efficiently
operated and seems assured of a long term future.
(c)   GMP Component-Xinhua. The Company, starting in 1992, changed
the structure of the enterprise to a joint stock company. It is now free to
set prices for its products and, since April 1992, has been authorized to
conduct its export business directly, without having to market its products
through a foreign trade enterprise. Foreign trade amounts to about $12
million/year and is increasing. The Company sees the GMP facilities as a
key factor in its future development both in improving product quality and
in exporting higher value products.  There is thus a very strong
commercial interest in extending GMP to other facilities of the Company
and maximizing the benefits from the Project. The Company has also
found that the introduction of the management systems necessary for GMP
of the tableting plant have led to an overall improvement of its
management capabilities.
(d)   GMP Component-Shanghai No. 4. The Company is now a joint stock
company that was first listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange in 1993
and, as with Xinhua, is free to set prices for its products and export
directly. Although the project schedule and financing requirements were
severely impacted by the need to relocate the project, the long term effect
will be beneficial due to the superior features of the new site, including
space for expansion. As with Xinhua. the Company sees the GMP
facilities as a key factor in its future development. The Company now
plans to construct other formulation facilities at the site to GMP
specifications so that eventually all of its formulations will reach GMP
standards. The commercial future of the project is thus assured.
(e)   SPAC  Training and GMP Component.  SPAC  has successfully
completed the first stage of the process for nationwide introduction of
GMP. Through the training program and the implementation of the pilot
projects at Xinhua and Shanghai No. 4, it has built up expertise in



- 8 -
designing facilities to international GMP standards, specifying appropriate
GMP standards for China, and auditing facilities for GMP compliance. It
has also been instrumental in having the Ministry of Health promulgate
nationwide GMP standards. The initial institutional prerequisites for
nationwide introduction of GMP have thus largely been met. The eventual
implementation of GMP in all of the pharmaceutical facilities is a high
priority of SPAC and the Ministry of Health to ensure that
pharmnaceuticals are manufactured, packaged, and delivered to appropriate
quality control standards. The introduction of GMP is also essential for
international competitiveness of the sector. The costs for introduction of
GMP are considerable as many of the existing production facilities,
especially formulation plants, would have to be replaced. Nevertheless,
based in part on the results of the Project, SPAC intends to pursue
vigorously the implementation of GMP.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
12.   The Bank played an important role in identification and preparation of the Project,
especially in identifying finance for the feasibility studies and ensuring that these
addressed critical issues. During implementation, the Bank provided technical, financial
and management advice via review of procurement, monitoring of training programs, and
regular supervision missions. The Bank also assisted in the preparation of enterprise
operational statements during the ICR Mission. The Bank had extensive exchange of
views with SPAC on the implementation of GMP on a nationwide basis.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
13.   The overall implementation of the project from the borrower's side was largely
delegated by MOF to SPAC. SPAC provided a very active and effective coordination
and leadership role. Henan Provincial Government and Zhengzhou Municipality, two of
the major beneficiaries, provided very strong support to the Zhong Yuan Pharmaceutical
Factory component. Procurement for the project was handled efficiently with remarkably
few problems and procedural delays.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
14.   Overall, the Project is rated as satisfactory and sustainable. The project has met
all of its major objectives. The delays in attaining full production for the Zhong Yuan
Component have had a severe impact on its financial and economic performance, but as
many of the problems have now been resolved, and the plan for resolution of the
remaining problems appears viable, the project is still financially and economically viable
and sustainable. The Henan Quality Control Center plays an important role in ensuring
that the Henan Provincial Pharmaceutical Bureau has the means to adequately monitor
and enforce pharmaceutical quality standards within the Province, and the availability to
others of the resources of the Center is an additional benefit. The GMP component of
Xinhua and the SPAC Training and GMP component are rated as highly satisfactory



- 9 -
since all the objectives were clearly met and components are sustainable. The GMP
project at Shanghai No. 4 is rated as satisfactory, below that at Xinhua, since at the time
of the ICR mission, it was still under implementation. However, all indications are that
this is also a sustainable project.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
15.   It was intended that the GMP component should provide the first step toward
introducing GMP on a nationwide basis, and that these two units (Xinhua and Shanghai
No. 4) should be regarded as demonstration plants. The management of many Chinese
pharmaceutical plants has visited these two plants in order to learn how the experience
gained can be utilized in bringing their own units up to standard. The Chinese authorities
have now incorporated plans for the comprehensive introduction of GMP into the
Country's next five-year plan.  Consequently, the Government is actively seeking
financial assistance to proceed with this plan.
Lessons for Future Projects in the Pharmaceutical Sector
16.   Many developing countries as well as those with economies in transition are
having to face the issue of introducing international standards of GMP into their
pharmaceutical sectors. There are two main reasons for this: (a) the health of the local
population consuming domestically-produced drugs can only be guaranteed by the
introduction of procedures, which are strictly adhered to, for quality assurance of the
pharmaceuticals produced and distributed; and (b) international trade in pharmaceuticals
is now restricted virtually to only those products that can be certified to be produced
according to international GMP standards.
17.   The adoption of GMP in even new pharmaceutical production facilities is not a
straightforward process of technology selection, training in appropriate procedures and
quality control. It is in fact a complex process requiring considerable Government
leadership and commitment to institutional development and implementation of an
appropriate regulatory system. This is even more true when GMP is to be introduced in a
significant established industry where some of the old facilities have to be shut down and
production rationalized and new control procedures have to be learned and traditional
methods discarded by both workers and management. In such circumstances, the
introduction of GMP, on an industrywide scale, can be expected to take an extended
period and can receive a major impetus from pilot operations like this one that have
strong Government and enterprise support and that can provide significant demonstration
effects to policymakers, regulatory agencies, and the sector enterprises of the problems
that arise and their solutions in successfully implementing GMP.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
18.   Experience from the Project again demonstrated the value of careful preparation
and the early involvement of local consultants in assisting in the preparation so that
country specific factors are adequately addressed. There is confidence at all levels that



- 10-
the project scope is rational and achievable. Again, the value of strong, sustained
commitment and leadership was demonstrated in the measures taken to resolve the
difficult problems that the Zhong Yuan Component has had to deal with in its plans to
achieve design operation.
19.   The Zhong Yuan component highlighted the complex problems that can develop
in technology transfer. The problems were least, and manageable, where the technology
was fairly widely available, but much more difficult where available from few sources
and covered by patents and restrictive know-how secrecy agreements. For such restricted
technologies, it would have served the project better to have achieved technology transfer
via a joint venture project with the holder of the key technology, or, as would have been
feasible, to have relied solely on indigenous Chinese technology (the project uses
patented Chinese technology for the first stage of vitamin C production and a significant
number of vitamin C plants exist in China based solely on indigenous technology with
product that meets international standards) and accepted the resulting somewhat lower
performance in terms of energy and conversion efficiencies.



- 11 -
PART Il: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Achievement of Objectives
Not
Substantial      Partial     Negligible      Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                                    X
Sector policies                                                                           X
Financial objectives                                       X
Institutional development                   X
Physical objectives                         X
Poverty reduction                                                                         X
Gender concerns                                                                           X
Other social objectives                                                                   X
Environmental objectives                                                                  X
Public sector management                                   X
Private sector development                                                                X
Other (specify)                                                                           X
Project Sustainability
Likely                          Unlikely                                           Uncertain
x
Bank Performance
Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory         Deficient
Identification                                                     X
Preparation assistance                                             X
Appraisal                                                          X
Supervision                                                        X
Borrower Performance
Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory       Deficient
x
Preparation                                                        X
Implementation                                                     X
Covenant compliance                                                X
Assessment of Outcome
Highly Satisfactory             Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory     Highly Unsatisfactory
x



- 12 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS
There were no preceding nor following operations in the China Pharmaceutical
Sector.
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                            Date planned       Date actual/latest estimnate
Identification                                  November 1986            November 1986
Preparation                                        July 1987                July 1987
Project Brief
Preappraisal
Appraisal                                       December 1987            December 1987
Negotiations                                       April 1988              April 1988
Board presentation                                 May 1988                May 1988
Signing                                              N.A.                December 1988
Effectiveness                                   September 1988           February 1989
Project Completion                              December 1992              July 1995
Loan closing                                    December 1993            December 1994
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
($ million)
Bank FY         Quarter        Cumulative Disbursement       Actual %
Ending        Estimated        Actual       of Estimated
1989        31-Dec-88           0.9            0.0            0.0
3 1-Mar-89         4.2            0.0            0.0
30-Jun-89         10.3           4.1             39.7
1990         30-Sep-89         18.8            5.1            27.2
31-Dec-89         27.3           11.8            43.3
31-Mar-90         35.7           12.9            36.2
30-Jun-90         44.8           23.4            52.3
1991        30-Sep-90          57.6           45.4            78.9
31-Dec-90         70.4           49.9            70.9
3 1 -Mar-91       81.5           77.3            94.8
30-Jun-91         89.3           88.2            98.8
1992         30-Sep-91         100.3          95.3            95.1
31-Dec-91         111.3          97.9            87.9
31-Mar-92         119.5          106.7           89.3
30-Jun-92         121.3         107.7            88.8
1993         30-Sep-92         123.8          115.8           93.5
31-Dec-92         126.3          116.8           92.4
31-Mar-93         127.0          119.6           94.2
30-Jun-93         127.0          119.9           94.4
1994         30-Sep-93         127.0          122.1           96.2
31-Dec-93         127.0          122.4           96.4
31-Mar-94         127.0          124.4           98.0
30-Jun-94         127.0         124.8            98.3
1995         30-Sep-94         127.0          125.3           98.6
31-Dec-94         127.0          126.2           99.4
31-Mar-95         127.0          126.7           99.7
The date of the final disbursement was March 29, 1995. An amount of $0.344 million
was canceled.



- 13 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR           Estimated       Actual
A. Zhong Yuan Pharmaceutical Factory
Major Process Packages Contract Award       Jan-89         Aug-89
Commencement of Major Civil Works           Dec-89         Jun-90
Commencement of Major Equipment Erection    Jul-90         Jun-91
Completion of Equipment Testing             Sep-91         Oct-92
Completion of Commissioning                 Dec-91         Oct-92
Commencement of Vitamin C Production        Jan-92         Nov-93
Commercial Operation, 100% Capacity         Jun-93      1999 (Estimate)
Utilization
B. GMP Components
Xinhua
Selection of Design and Implementation      Dec-88         Jan-90
Consultants
Completion of Major Equipment Deliveries    Feb-91         Nov-92
Commencement of Major Civil Works           Apr-89         Aug-91
Completion of Erection                      Jul-91         Jun-93
Completion of Commissioning                 Dec-91         Dec-93
Commencement of Commercial Operation        Mar-92         Apr-94
Shanghai No. 4
Selection of Design and Implementation      Dec-88         Jan-90
Consultants
Completion of Major Equipment Deliveries    Feb-91          Jul-94
Commencement of Major Civil Works           Apr-89         Jun-93
Completion of Erection                      Jul-91         Dec-94
Completion of Commissioning                 Dec-91         Apr-95
Commencement of Commercial Operation        Mar-92          Jul-95
(Estimate)
C. Henan Quality Control Center
Initiation of Procurement                      Jun-88         Jun-89
Final Equipment Delivery                       Apr-89         Sep-90
Completion of QCC                              Jun-89         Oct-91



- 14 -
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
There were no specific indicators set apart from financial covenants.
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
There were no studies included in the Project.
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
($ million)
Estimated                                     Actual
Local       Foreign        Total            Local        Foreign        Total
Component                                   (Yuan)         ($)          Yuan             (Yuan)         ($)          Yuan
Equiv.                                      Equiv.
A. ZYPF Component
Installed Cost                           222.6         98.2         635.4            800.0         116.0        1,786.0
Interest During Construction              17.7          19.3         99.3             36.9          32.0         308.9
Working Capital                           72.5           0.0         72.5            110.0                       110.0
Total Financing                          312.8         117.5        807.2            946.9         148.0       2,204.9
B. GMP Component
Xinhua
Installed Cost                            13.5           5.0         35.4             26.3           5.0          68.7
Interest During Construction                            0.9           3.6              6.0           0.8          12.5
Working Capital                            1.9                         1.9             3.5                         3.5
Total Financing                           15.4           5.9         40.8             35.8           5.8          84.7
Shanghai No. 4
Installed Cost                            10.2          4.9          31.5             52.5           4.2          87.9
Interest During Construction                            0.8           3.2              4.7           0.5           8.7
Working Capital                            1.7                        1.7              3.6                         3.6
Total Financing                           11.9           5.7         36.4             60.8           4.6         100.2
C. Henan Quality Control Center                              1.0          4.3                            0.8           6.8
Total Financing Required                    340.1         130.0         888.7          1,043.5         159.2       2,396.7



- 15 -
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Estimated                                     Actual
Local       Foreign       Total              Local       Foreign        Total
Component                                  (Yuan)         ($)         Yuan             (Yuan)          ($)         Yuan
Equiv.                                       Equiv.
A. ZYPF Component
IBRD Loan                                                 117.5        494.4                           117.5        998.8
Domestic Loan                               195.8                      195.8             619.9                      619.9
Equity (Province)                            72.6                       72.6             300.0          20.9        477.7
Internal Cash                                44.4                       44.4              27.0           9.6        108.6
Subtotal    312.8         117.5        807.2             946.9         148.0       2,204.9
B. GMP Component
Xinhua
IBRD Loan                                                   5.0         20.7                             5.0         42.2
Domestic l oan                                                                            19.0                       19.0
Internal Cash                                15.4           0.9         20.1              16.8           0.8         23.5
Subtotal     15.4           5.9         40.8              35.8           5.8         84.7
Shanghai No.4
IBRD Loan                                                   4.5         18.5                             4.2         35.3
Domestic Loan                                                                             35.0                       35.0
Internal Cash                                11.9           1.2         16.9              25.8           0.5         30.1
Subtotal      11.9          5.7         36.4              60.8           4.7        100.3
C. Henan Quality Control Center
Govemment                                                   1.0          4-3                             0.7          5.9
Total Financing Required                    340.1         130.1        888.7            1,043.5        159.2       2,395.8
TABLE 9: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS
ZYPF Component /a
Rates of Return %                                             Estimates
Appraisal        Loan closing
Financial Rate of Return Before Tax                    26                  11
Financial Rate of Return After Tax                     20                  10
Economic Rate of Return                                 34                 11
/a Only component for which benefits were quantified in the SAR.



- 16 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original
Present    Fulfillment
Section            Type      Status        Date                Description of Covenant                Comments
Loan Agreement
3.04    12         C         Dec-90    Furnish an industry wide program for               Completed
introduction of GMP during 8th plan period, and
exchange views.
4.01     1         C                    GMP enterprises to furnish audited accounts,    In compliance
audits of Special Accounts and SOEs within 6
months of the close of the financial year.
Schedule 5    10        CD          Jun-89    GMP enterprises to fumish implementation          Complete
schedules and training programs
Schedule 5     2         C                    GMP enterprise to maintain: debt service ratio  In compliance
of at least 1.5, debt/equity of greater than 60:40;
current ratio of not less than 1.3
Project Agreement
2.01 (c)    10        C         Dec-90    Establish Zhong Yuan Factory (ZYPF) and enter      Completed
into a transfer agreement satisfactory to the
Bank.
4.01     I                              Furnish audited accounts, audits of Special     In compliance
Accounts and SOEs within 6 months of the close
of the firancial year.
Schedule    10          C         Jun-89    ZYPF to furnish recruitment and training          Coinpleted
program
10        C                    ZYPF to appoint marketing staff one year prior    Completed
to plant startup.
6         C                    ZYPF to prepare plant safety manual for           Completed
hazardous materials and emergency procedures
by one year prior to startup.
2         CP        Jan-94    In operation, ZYPF to maintain debt service ratio  Debt equity
of at least 1.5, maintain a debt to equity ratio of  not met.
at least 70:30, and a current ratio of not less than  Expected
1.25                                            compliance
in 1999.
Covenant types:                                                                    Present status:
I = Accounts/audits                 8 = Indigenous people                       C   = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting       CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries  10 = Project implementation not              CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project      covered by categories 1-9               NC  = not complied with
funds                          II = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                  budgetary or other resources
S = Management aspects of the            allocation
project or executing agency    12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants              regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement        13 = Other



- 17-
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational
Manual statement (OD or OP/BP).
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Actual
Stage of Project Cycle            Weeks               $
Through Appraisal                  75.9              n.a
Appraisal to Board                  6.5              n.a
Board to Effectiveness               I               n.a
Supervision                        53.2              n.a
Completion                          13               n.a
Total      149.6
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating
No. of   Days in       Staff      Implementation   Development       Types of
Stage of Project Cycle      Mo./Vr.   Persons    Field        Skills          Status          Impact        Problems
Through Appraisal           Nov-87       6        166       Eng. Fin.
Pharm. Econ
Marketing
Appraisal Through Board       n.a       n.a       n.a          n.a
Board TFlrougih Effectiveness  n.a      n.a       n.a          n.a
Supervision                 Jun1-89      2         14     Eng. Econ.Fin         I                I             F
Oct-90      2         28      Eng. Econ.Fin         I               I              F
Nov-91       1         6          Eng.              2               I              M
Oct-92      2         28      Eng. Econ.Fin         2               I             M/T
Dec-93       2        22      Eng. Econ.Fin         2               1             M/T
Comnpletion                 Jan-95       2         26     Eng. Econ.Fin                                        F/T
Eng.              Engineer
Pharm.    =       Pharmaceutical Specialist
Econ.      =      Economist
Fin.       =      Financial Analyst



Financial Project Income Statement       1993   1994   1 995   1996   1997    i1998         1999     2000     2001    2002       2003      2004     20       2006      20071   2008       2009     2010 
Cortunon Sarch           I 1.1 28.9   55.0      81.11   89.       999     19.        2.      172127.2    127.2    1        7.       2721127.227.               127.2    127.2    1272
Modified Starch                ____1 12.0                                          26.3     29.0     39.8      39.8     39.8      39.8     39.8      39.8     39.8     39.8      39.8     39.8      39.8        0      -
Dextrose Monohydrare           ~~~~~10.4    9 6    53.3   66.01   72.6  84.3     927      107.4    107.4    107.4    107.4    107.4    107.4    107.4    107.4    107.4    107.4    107.4 
DetoeAnhydrate                     ___        -       2.5     73     3.4   48.0        52.81    72.6      72.6      72.6     72.6      72.6     72.6     72.6      72.6     72.6      72.6     72.6        *0
Soebitol (700/)                            2.5    7.8   53 5    648974.7    lOOl2   110.2    128.0    128.0    128.01   128.0    128.0    128.0    128.0    128.0   128.0    128.0    128.01                    0
Vitamin C (Domestic)                       02     8.2   44.9   49.4   54.3         23.9     26.3     28 9      28.9     28.9     28.9      28.9     28.9      28.9     28.9      28.9     28.9     28.9
Vitamin C (Export)                                       89.7  246.81 380.1    537.5    591.3    693 8    693.8    693.8    693.8    693.8    693.81  693.8  _693.8    693.8    693.8    693.8
Refined ComnOil                            3.1    45      15.4   24.2   31.9       39 5     44.0     53.1      53.1     53 1      53.1     53.1      53.11    53.1     53.1      53.1     53.1      53.1 
GTluete  Meal                              1.6    6.0      7.0   Il.l    13.        9.0     20.      30.!      30.lI    30.1      30.1     30.1      30.l      30.1     0I  30.30.                  30.1 
Gluten Feed           -2.6    4.l1 6    30 4    33.9                               47.9     52.2     6517      65.7     65.7 65.7          6.7       65.7     65.7     63.7      65.7     65.7     6. 
Hydrol                                     1.7    2.1     5.6    8.4   10.2        11J.7    12.81    14.9      14.9      14.9     14.9     14.9      149      14.91    14.9      14.9     14.9      149
Total Sales                   ~~~~~~~~~33.1   71.2  344.7  609.3  803.2   1838.2   1142.0   1361.5   1361.5   1361.5J  1361.5   8361.5   1361.5   1361.5  1361.5  1361.5   16.          31 
Miarketing Cost                            1.8     I 4    3.5     6.1     8 0      10.4     11.4      13.6     13.6      13.6     13.6     13.6      13.6     13.6      13.6     13.6      13.6     13.6
Product Sales Cost                        38.8   88.4  255.2  482.7  581.8   693.7    713.9    810.1    810.1I    810.1    810.1    810.1    810.1    810.1    810.1    810.1    810.1    810.10 
Including_Raw Materials                   15.2   30.0  144.3  186 5   229.5    288.5    293 1    340.9    340.9    340.9    340.9~  340.9    340.9    340.9    340.9    340.9    340.9    340.9 
____                                                                                                                __        __                                                            Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    --4  40
Corn                                       8.0)  17.7   29.9   80.2  110.7    140.6         5.3      176.4    176.4    176.4    176.4    176.4    176.4    176.4    176.4    176.4    176.4    176.4                                                  I
Packi~ng_Materiails                        2.0    4.4   12.6    2 1.5   24.8      32.2      34.9     40.9      40.9     40.9      40.9     40.9     40.9      40.9     40.9      40.9     40.91   40.9
Coal                                       2.0    5.2      22.6   24.7   30 9      34.3     47.3     36.1      36.1     36.1      36.1     36.1      36.1     36.1     36.1      36.1     36.1      36.1
Electricity                    ~~~~~~~~~~5.0   18.51  19.81  34.0   42.5  47 3    3.4      49.8     49.8     49.8      49.8     49.8      49.8     49.8     49.8      49.8     49.8      49.8
Water                                      1.3    16        .7    2.4    3.0        3.4     26.1      3.6       3.6      3.61      3.6      3.6       3.6      3.6      3.6       3.6      3.6       3.6          '     '
Salary/Allowanice                          5.4    8.0   17.8   19.6   21.5        23.7      28.1     28.7      28.7     28.71   28.7       28.7      28.7     28.7     28.7      28.7     28.7     28.7
Maintenance                                        3.0   16.6   20.0   25.0        30.0     35 0     40.0      40.0     40.01   40.0       40.0     40.0      40.01   40.0       40.0     48.0     40.0
Depreciation                               ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.0   93.8   93.   -93.8  93.8  93.8  93.8   93.81   93.8      93.8      93.8     93.8      93.8     93.8     93.8      93.81
ofit  ~ ~      ~     7.    186      86.1  1228.5  21i]3.3    3.1     467      5.8        3.8      3.8      537.8    537.8    537.8    537.8    537.8    537.8    537.8    537.8
Financial Cost                             4.2    5.2   10.0    1 3.0   13.01    13.0       13.0      12.0     12.0      12.0     12.01    12.0      12.0     12.0      12.0     12.01    12.0      12.0
Management Ovcrhead                        6.7   13.5   15.0   15.0   15.0         15.0     ISO0      15.0     15.0      15.0      5.      150       15.0     15.0      15.0     15.0     15.0      15.0
Profit Before Tax                        -18.4  -37.3    61 1    92.5  185.3    306.1    388 7    510.8    310 8    510.81  510.81  510.8    510.8    510.8    510.8    510.8    510.8    510.8
Plus Taxs Draw Back from Export                          15.3   42.0   64.6       9.       100.5    117.9    117.9    117.9    117.9    117.91   117.9    117.9    117.         11.9     11.9      11.
Less Tax Payable                                          11.7   17.2    7.        1.7      20.0     252       25.2     35.2      25 2     25.2 1 25.21 2.              52       2.        52       2.
Profi't After T  ~-1 8.4   Y73                 64.   817.3  23.>7.               6.        0.       0.        0.       0.)    0.          0.       0.        0.       0.       0.        0.



- 19 -                               Appendix B
APPENDIX B: ZHONG YUAN PHARMACEUTICAL
COMPONENT BALANCE SHEET
00        o W' _  W  r-T          sv       1              1 
0  _   VN V.0C      |n-'o4$n C  o N  _              rlV 0  0
0    0' _  0 0              0       00  N0X   IW                   - -    N  qX X W v >  
           0pt  v   c-V X    v|X   v|o   n   o| W t|rn  o  o n , V 
N  0  00;           000~~~~~~~~~~~~~*  0 0 0~~~~N    -
rQ  X  X   V:  X   o  ; c |   V   o | raJ   C [ O   r_      o|a  a-z |      n 
00    Nr,   -~ ~~ ~~~~~~~" oo4~No 00  0    1N
C0 oC C0 v o00                                           0 |   r g  ||0  | |     
-        - > O O e - O i        w r-4; - 0    r   *       ,   _ -  -0 - C
v    0   v      0    0| o l    0       O  O N                r o            -v  v  v  2
ObON0 o o o         Sx0          1       oo1oo0   |           000|0|00|;-
N   0    0 e0      0                0    NO 00    0                    NO&e        gat 



- 20 -                          Appendix C
APPENDIX C: ZHONG YUAN PHARMACEUTICAL
COMPONENT FUND SOURCE AND APPLICATION
o   -S                                              00 n _00 _          _ .'___    
|'  a'   c I0                        00o.        N         ]t    t oO  r0  00r.r
00  0'          o     ,  0    0v              r N  0   N   r0   k0
o   L                     00,2           9CC 1  1     0           0'  l0    3 r   
W~~ o 0    L        l            oo   so a'  0   C C
100  !lcNs          0  I00Cr   9TtcrrEm 00           E - ll C
|~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~~~0 _ ]0  00j0                        00\S\|r                  s|osorOr          T
|          |~0       0 |00              0    o | |o| 0 O o r 4 4 T
00             0 2   0> 9:                         o -



- 21 -                    Appendix D
APPENDIX D: ICR PREPARATION MISSION'S
AIDE MEMOIRE
January 25, 1995
1.    A World Bank Mission consisting of Messrs. Roger Heath and David Caplin,
visited China between January 12 to 25 for the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
of the Pharmaceuticals Project. The Mission appreciates the cooperation and assistance
extended by the State Pharmaceuticals Administration (SPAC), Henan Provincial
Government, Zhengzhou Municipal Government, Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory
(ZYPF), Shanghai No. 4 Pharmaceuticals Factory, Shandong Xinhua Pharmaceuticals
Factory and Henan Provincial Quality Control Center (HQCC). A list of persons met is
shown in Attachment 1. The findings of the mission are subject to confirmation by Bank
Management on the mission's return to Washington. The purpose of the mission was
twofold:
(a)    To review progress on the project; and
(b)   To agree with the Project Entities on the steps that need to be taken in
order to complete the ICR so that it can be submitted to the Bank's Board
of Directors before June 30, 1995.
Disbursements
2.    The expected final disbursement position for the three project entities is shown
below in millions US dollars:
Entity     Loan Amount   Disbursement    Remaining   Estimated Cancellations
to Date    Disbursements
ZYPF          117.500       116.940        0.558         0.002
Shanghai No. 4     4.500         4.164        0.000         0.336
Xinhua          5.000         4.992        0.000         0.008
Total         127.000      126.096         0.558         0.346



- 22 -                   Appendix D
SPAC GMP Program
3.    SPAC reported that after the establishment of the special committee for GMP
production in 1992, the Ministry of Health acted on the recommendations of the
committee by promulgating the revised GMP standards that will govern the
manufacturing quality standards for the pharmaceuticals sector during the 9th Five Year
Plan. Draft GMP design specifications have been prepared and are being processed for
approval by SPAC. A number of pharmaceutical plants will be audited by SPAC to
deternine the requirements for meeting GMP, and based on the findings SPAC will
submit a nationwide GMP implementation report to the Government, that is expected to
recommend mandatory GMP standards. The goal would be that by the year 2000, 80
percent of the of the pharmaceutical plants would meet the new mandatory GMP
standards.
Henan Quality Control Center
4.    The mission held discussions with Mr. Zhang Tao, the Deputy Director. In
comparison with 1992, when only 170 analyses had been performed, with a staff of 26,
some 1100 tests had been carried out in 1993 with a staff of 48, of whom 43 were
professionals. However, in 1994 about 2,000 tests were carried out with a professional
staff of 42. This met the target set in 1993 but represents only about 25 percent of what is
considered a reasonable capacity utilization for the QCC. The Center looked to five
principal sources for increasing its work load:
(a)   The Public Health Sector;
(b)   Quality control services to pharmaceutical factories;
(c)   University and Research Centers;
(d)   Testing of traditional medicines; and
(e)   New product development, particularly traditional Chinese medicines.
5.    The mission had, in 1992, been informed by SPAC that it was of the view that
HQCC was better equipped than the 14 regional QCCs controlled by SPAC.  In
November 1992, HQCC submitted a report to SPAC, recommending that the
responsibility for the Center be taken over by SPAC, which could then be assigned work
on a national (rather than a provincial) basis for drugs in specific therapeutic categories.
However, this transfer of responsibilities has not taken place, as under the reforms taking
place in the sector, SPAC does not foresee any national role for the HQCC.



- 23 -                  Appendix D
Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) Component
Shanghai No. 4 Pharmaceutical Factory
6.    The mission held meetings at Shanghai No. 4 "Kofa" Pudong site, where the
GMP unit is in the pre-commissioning stage. The mission was pleased to note the
progress made since the last visit in November 1993. The facilities are planned to be in
commercial operation in June 1995. A final audit will be carried out by the GMP
consultants prior to commercial operation. The final capital cost of the GMP unit is
estimated at Y 84.7 million (Y 52.6 + $4.16 million). Although the project has been
considerably delayed compared with the SAR estimate due to the need to relocate
(following the decision of the Municipal Government to use part of the old site for
highway development), the mission considers that the net effect is very positive due to
the many superior features of the new site.
7.    The GMP unit will be the first of three major facilities to be installed at the
Pudong site. The additional facilities are a new GMP tableting plant, and Research and
Development and training facilities. On September 20, the enterprise was converted to a
joint stock company; new shares were issued in November 1993. Shares, each with a
face value of Y 1, were sold at a price of Y 4.5, yielding Y 60 million.
Xinhua Pharmaceutical Factory
8.    The trial runs of the GMP facilities were carried out in April 1994. Production
has been about one third of capacity during 1994. A number of equipment defects have
been rectified, and full capacity production of 3 billion tablets per year is expected to be
attained in the second quarter of 1995. Fluor Daniel visited the plant in the first quarter
of 1994, and carried out an overall GMP audit of the plant in September 1994. They
concluded that the facility meets United States FDA GMP regulations in all aspects
(hardware and software).
9.    This component of the project represents the first successful introduction of
international GMP standards in a Chinese-owned pharmaceutical formulation plant. As
such, and as expected at appraisal, the project has generated considerable interest within
the pharmaceutical sector and many visits have been made by local enterprises and
institutions to learn from the Xinhua experience. In addition, the representatives of
several overseas companies have already visited Xinhua, and discussions on cooperation
in production and marketing of products from the new plant have already been initiated.
The mission again congratulates Xin Hua on the very successful implementation of the
Project.
10.   The final capital cost of the GMP unit is estimated at Y 56.1 million (Y 28.63 +
$4.99 million).
11.   Xinhua, which is one of the largest State Owned Enterprises (SOEs), started as
early as 1992 to change the structure of the enterprise to a joint stock company. The



- 24 -                  Appendix D
company has received the necessary approvals to issue shares on the Hongkong Stock
Exchange and is preparing for the first issue in 1995.
Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Component (ZYPF)
12.   ZYPF is still suffering from a number of serious problems that are delaying
commercial operation. Of the imported process units, only the Sorbitol Plant has passed
the guaranteed test run. The Waste Water Treatment Facility has operated satisfactorily
but as yet it has not been possible to feed high COD waste to the unit for a test run. To
deal with the start up and commissioning problems, ZYPF had adopted a four-stage
program to bring the plant up to satisfactory operation:
(a)   Bring the plant up to continuous operation;
(b)   Bring the quality up to specification on a regular basis;
(c)   Increase the production rate; and
(d)   Reduce unit consumption of raw materials and utilities.
13.   This program  has only been partially successful.  Stage (a) has been
accomplished, and Stage (b) has been partially achieved in that on specification vitamin C
has been produced and exported. Major problems remain in achieving satisfactory
performance for Stages (c) and (d).
14.   Although significant technical problems remain to be resolved in the Starch and
Dextrose Units, the major problems lie in the performance of the XA and Vitamin C
Units. Problems still encountered with the process units, as reported by ZYPF, are given
below:
(a)   Starch and Dextrose. Although many of the problems encountered in
1992 have now been solved by ZYPF personnel, there are still some
unsolved problems: incomplete drying of gluten meal, the gluten meal
pelletizer cannot be made to operate successfully, and no on-specification
product has as yet been produced on the anhydrous dextrose unit (probably
because of limitations in the double enzyme technology utilized), nor from
the modified starch units.
(b)   Vitamin C and XA Units. The major remaining problem is the low
overall recovery rate of vitamin C, even when operating on a continuous
stable basis. Further modifications to the XA and Vitamin C plant have
been specified based on the performance of these plants under continuous
operation. The modifications involve a blend of Chinese technology.
Modifications to the XA plant and start up are planned to be complete by
March 1995, and modifications to the Vitamin C plant by June 1995.
ZYPF has worked closely with SPAC and Shanghai Pharmaceutical



- 25 -                  Appendix D
Design Institute and has also visited Vitamin C plants abroad. The parties
involved believe that the technical problems are now well understood and
the planned remedial action will increase recovery rates to reasonable
levels, although lower than the original contract performance guarantees.
The cost of the modifications are estimated to cost Y 60 million. The
Henan Provincial Government has approved this investment, and SPAC
informed the mission that it has given its own approval the first phase for
completion by March 1995 and expects to approve the final phase shortly.
15.   The management organization of ZYPF has been completely reviewed by the
Provincial and Municipal Governments. The findings were that, in light of the serious
technical problems that have over-loaded management so that many other problems of
operation and administration had bee left unaddressed, the whole management system
needed overhauling both at the factory and administrative levels. The lines of authority
and communication from the Provincial Government level downwards have been
clarified and strengthened. At the same time, major changes have been made to the
senior factory management. A major change has been that the Senior Executive has a
solid background in continuous process operation and has been given wide disciplinary
powers. The mission believes that the management reorganization is a very positive step
and a prerequisite for successful operation.
16.   Progress has been made in improving the financial management information
system. However, further progress is necessary. The mission again recommended that
competent local consultant be engaged in order to improve the management information
system for the computerized preparation of financial projections, so that management can
receive timely and accurate information for decision-making. The mission noted that
consultants competent to perform this work were available in Beijing and Shanghai. The
mission believes that this should be done on a priority basis to support ZYPF's
application to the Provincial authorities for necessary working capital. Finalized financial
projections are to be furnished to the mission before the mission completes its work in
China. It is already clear, however, that the ZYPF has not met, and cannot meet in the
immediate future, the financial covenants set up for commercial operation (which was
envisaged to commence in January 1994) in the Project Agreement. The mission
recommends that the Henan Provincial Government should request, through the Ministry
of Finance, that the Bank grant an extension to the date at which these covenants are to
come into force. Appropriate supporting documentation should accompany this request.
Implementation Completion Report
17.   The steps that need to be taken in the preparation of the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) were discussed with all the Project Entities. The procedures
for the ICR are somewhat different from the Project Completion Report (PCR) previously
discussed with the project entities. One of the differences is the attachment to the ICR of
Operational Plans for the completed projects. The mission has discussed operational
plans with all the project entities and the missions interpretation of theses plans in



- 26 -                   Appendix D
Attachment 2. The project entities should review these plans and make any additions or
deletions that they consider appropriate. The various steps for completion of the ICR are
given below:
(a)   On return to Washington, confirmation of the Aide Memoire will be sent
to MOF, SPAC, and the project entities. It is important for all parties to
review the Aide Memoire as this is one of the Appendices of the
completed ICR.
(b)   The Bank Task Manager sends the draft ICR to MOF, SPAC, and the
project entities as soon as it is prepared, for comments. MOF sends
consolidated comments on the draft to the Bank.
(c)   The Borrower, the Ministry of Finance, also sends its own final evaluation
report. The total length for all project components combined should be ten
pages or less, or, if longer, a summary should be prepared. The evaluation
report should review all aspects of the project from the Borrower's
perspective.
(d)   The ICR is revised in the light of comments received and the final
evaluation report (or summary) from MOF is attached unedited. The final
ICR is then transmitted to the Bank's Board of Directors not later than
June 30, 1995.
18.   The mission has received much of the information required for it to prepare the
draft ICR. However, the mission has yet to receive the following information:
(a)   ZYPF: Revised financial statements and projections.
(b)   Xinhua
(i)    Additional years for the income statement projections to include
1994, and the period 1996 to 2000; and
(ii)    Recalculation of debt service coverage figures on a total enterprise
basis.
(c)   Shanghai No. 4
(i)    Actual and projected income statements covering the period of
project implementation and the first five years of project operation,
i.e., from 1989 to 2000;
(ii)    Details of any compensation received for the loss of use of the part
of the old site due to road works, and the cost of the new site to be
included in the project capital cost table;



- 27 -                    Appendix D
(iii)    Capital cost table to include foreign cost as equivalent Y and local
costs as equivalent US dollars showing the overall conversion rate
used;
(iv)    Provide details of foreign principal and interest repayment up to
commercial operation and local interest plus any principal
repayment. Clarify the figure of Y 4.36 million in the IDC given
to the mission. Is this on local loans or the World Bank loan, or
both, and does it include principal as well as interest?; and
(v)    Provide a table showing actual project financing.



- 28 -                  Appendix D
Attachment 1
ATTACHMENT 1: LIST OF PERSONS MET
SPAC
Mr. Huang Jinfu         Vice Director
Mme. Gu Junmei          Division Chief, Foreign Affairs Bureau
Ms. Chen Su Hong        Development Department
Ministry of Finance
Mr. Li Guanghui         Acting Division Chief, World Bank Department
Peoples Government of Henan Province
Mr. Hou Guo Fu          Vice Secretary General
Mr. Yang Xianming       Director, Planning and Economic Commission
Mr. Han Wenxing         Director, Pharmaceutical Administration
Mr. Zhang Tao           Deputy Director, Pharmaceutical Administration
Zhengzhou Municipal Peoples Government
Mr. Chen Yi Chu         Vice Mayor
Zhong Yuan Pharmaceutical Factory
Mr. Shi Xeu Gou         Chief Executive
Mr. Song Ya Jun         Managing Director
Mr. Liu Shi Ru          Deputy Director
Mr. Feng Jing Tao       Director, Marketing and Foreign Affairs
Ms. Cheng Shu Xia       Director, Department of Budget Control
Mr. Gao Hong Min        Master
Mr. Shi Xie Qi          (Retired)
Henan Quality Control Center
Mr. Li Baoquan          Director, Henan Pharmaceutical Industry Co.
Shanghai No. 4 Pharmaceutical Factory
Mr. Li Mao-fang         Deputy Factory Director
Mr. Jiang Shi-fu        Manager of Financial Division
Mr. Tang Jin-hai        Manager, Equipment and Engineering Division
Mr. Yang Jian-zu        Deputy Factory Director (Kofa)
Mr. Wang Rong-bin       Deputy Director Technical Reformation Dept.
Mr. Xi Chun-hua         Deputy Director, Standards and Information Dept.
Mr. Xu Zhi-jia          GMP Project Office, Engineer
Mme. Yang Jing Yi       GMP Project Office, Accountant
Mr. Wu Yong-qi          GMP Project Office, Assistant Engineer
Shandong Xinhua Pharmaceutical Factory
Mr. Han Honqbin         Deputy Director
Ms. Zhang Quibo         Engineer



- 29 -                  Appendix D
Attachment 2
ATTACHMENT 2: OPERATIONAL PLANS
Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory
1.    Originally, it had been planned that the ZYPF facilities would be in full
commercial operation by January 1994. However, due to serious technical problems with
a number of the process units, the commissioning and startup period has been protracted,
and all the necessary process modifications to enable commercial operation were not
completed until June 1995. There will then be a period of at least six months during
which experience will be gained with the modified process units. Commercial operation
is thus not expected until January 1996 at the earliest. Operational planning, at this point
in time, thus concentrates heavily on bringing the facilities into commercial operation,
i.e., the point at which ZYPF is financially self supporting.
2.    As vitamin C production is financially the most important product of ZYPF, the
one on which the commercial success of the project depends, the final resolution of the
problems with the Vitamin C and XA units will receive the first priority. Modifications
will be made and additional equipment will be installed in the first half of 1995, initially
to improve the operation and recovery in the XA Plant so that the feed to the Vitamin C
Plant is improved, and finally to the Vitamin C Plant to improve overall recovery rates
that will also give proportional capacity utilization increases.
3.    As the problems on Vitamin C Production are solved, priority will be given to
bring into operation the modified starch and anhydrous dextrose units, with the anhydrous
dextrose scheduled for 1996.
4.    Of equal importance to the solution of the technical problems is the strengthening
of the organization of ZYPF, including management, administrative functions,
operations, maintenance, and employee motivation and discipline. This strengthening
will continue to receive priority to ensure that production capacity and efficiency is
maximized as the technical problems are resolved.
5.   In 1996, ZYPF expects to receive the right to directly export its own products.
This has important financial implications for ZYPF as the present sales to export agents
are subject to sales tax, which would not be the case if directly exported by ZYPF.
6.   Implementation of the above will enable the project to become financially self-
supporting by 1999 and to receive final acceptance by the various Provincial and State
Authorities. Such acceptance will then open the way for further development of ZYPF to
produce higher formulations of vitamin C and to increase production capacity of vitamin
C up to 10,000 tpy.



- 30 -                  Appendix D
Attachment 2
7.    ZYPF will continue to investigate the possibilities for foreign cooperation that
would bring the transfer of technology and management/operations know-how.
Henan Province Quality Control Center
8.    The Henan Province Quality Control Center (HQCC) was originally set up to
provide analyses of the quality of pharmaceutical products manufactured in Henan
Province. It has remained under the control of the Henan Provincial Pharmaceutical
Administration and is, therefore, charged with carrying out tests only on materials
manufactured or used in Henan Province. The work load of the Center, measured in
terms of the number of tests carried out, (an inadequate measure, but all that is currently
available) has increased from 170 in 1992, through 1,100 in 1993 to over 2,000 in 1994-
a level that is above what was forecast last year but is barely enough to cover salaries and
test agents. Most of the work load has been directed to the Center by the Henan
Pharmaceutical Industry Corporation. Currently, some 42 professionals are employed, of
whom 17 are engaged in routine testing of medicines and packaging materials. The
remainder are engaged on Research & Development (R&D) on new products, particularly
Chinese Traditional Medicines (TCMs).
9.    The theoretical testing capacity of HQCC is a function of the professional work
force. With a professional staff of 42, and assuming each staff member could perform
two tests a day, the theoretical capacity is upwards of 20,000 tests per year. However,
demand considerations make it virtually impossible ever to reach this figure. Demand for
tests from the pharmaceutical companies is likely to decrease in the future, since the
Chinese authorities (MOPH and SPAC) are increasing the severity of standards of
process and product quality control, thus forcing the producing enterprises to adopt more
stringent in-house (and real-time) testing. In Henan province, many of the 200 odd
pharmaceutical enterprises themselves must therefore procure and utilize analytical
equipment of higher standards, rather than passing material out of the plant to HQCC for
testing. That this situation would arise in the future was realized by HQCC during the
preparation stage of the Project, and led to a reduction in the value of analytical
equipment actually ordered to about $700,000 compared with the original budget of $1
million.
10.   The Center has adopted what is considered to be a realistic approach to the
demand situation and is endeavoring to obtain more work from the R&D Institutes and
Universities in the Province rather than aiming for more routine tests from the
pharmaceutical plants. The kind of tests required in R&D are more stringent than
required in routine testing and therefore command a higher unit price per test. The Center
has adopted what seems to be a reasonable target of about 4,000 tests in 1995, rising to
about 8,000 tests in 1996.
Shanghai No. 4 Pharmaceutical Factory
11.   The factory is now a joint stock company that was first listed on the Shanghai
Stock Exchange in 1993.



- 31 -                   Appendix D
Attachment 2
12.   The new formulation units of Shanghai No. 4 Pharmaceutical Factory, now
relocated in the Pudong New Industrial Area, passed, at the end of December 1994, the
Acceptance Inspections and obtained the necessary Approvals from the Shanghai Public
Health Bureau, Shanghai Pharmaceutical Administration Bureau, Shanghai Economy
Committee, as well as related Banking Institutions.  Foreign experts who are to
commission the capsule filling line will arrive in Shanghai on February 8, 1995. After
the GMP audit is carried out in May by the consultant firm Fluor-Daniel Inc., it is
expected that the facilities will begin industrial-scale production in about June 1995.
13.   The general operational strategy to be adopted is to begin operations at the new
site with standard low-cost generics traditionally manufactured by the Company.
Marketing will capitalize on the highly-esteemed brand name "KOFA" used by the
Company, and which will now have the additional cachet of meeting GMP standards,
thus advancing the company's position in the domestic market as well as permitting
exports to higher value export markets. In 1996, the production and marketing of newer,
higher priced products will begin, and by then, the company expects to be working two
8-hour shifts (with 44 operators and other plant personnel per shift). While commercial
considerations preclude a more detailed publication of the Company's operational plans,
it can be stated that the overall operational strategy, as currently envisaged, is to
concentrate production of chemicals and intermediates (including penicillin derivatives
and semi-synthetics) at the old site in central Shanghai, and to utilize the new facilities
for the formulation of such pharmaceuticals as ammonoglucosides and cefotian
dihydrochloride. In addition, the new facilities will be used to formulate other products,
the active ingredients of which may be manufactured at the old site, or may be purchased
from other companies in China or abroad. It is estimated that the share of total sales
value contributed by finished product formulations will eventually rise from 40 percent to
70 percent. In Phase II of the development at the new site, a facility for the production of
Cephalosporins is planned, and in Phase III, a Center for R&D and for training will be
erected at the new site, and these activities will be transferred from the old Headquarters.
14.   Marketing will continue for the moment to be carried on primarily through three
agents, with only 10 percent of sales being made to "walk-in" clients. A Public Relations
campaign to reinforce the "KOFA" brand name in the domestic market will be mounted
on television and in newspapers , aimed primarily at hospital management and the general
public. Pharmaceutical packaging will be modernized to international standards. The
Company expects that, even in 1995 (?), a 33 percent increase in the value of sales can
reasonably be expected. Efforts will be redoubled to obtain export markets, particularly
in the US, since the new plant and production procedures have been designed to meet
FDA GMP standards. The management hopes to meet its goal of exporting products to
the value of 40 percent of total sales within five years of startup.
Shandong Xinhua Pharmaceutical Factory
15.   The new tablet manufacturing facility at the Shandong Xinhua Pharmaceutical
Factory at Zibo City was put into trial production in April 1994. In September 1994, a



- 32 -                   Appendix D
Attachment 2
GMP inspection of the plant was carried out by the consulting firmn Fluor Daniel. After a
thorough review of all aspects of the new facility, the consultants concluded in their
report that "Based on a review of the facility, process equipment, documentation systems
and product controls, the new tablet manufacturing facility located at Shandong Xinhua
Pharmaceutical Factory, Zibo, is in compliance with United States FDA Good
Manufacturing Practice regulations." The Company is probably the first in China to
convert an existing plant to international GMP standards-a much more difficult
operation than installing GMP standards in a new, green field plant. It has therefore
attracted a great deal of attention from high authorities in the Chinese Government and
from the management of other pharmaceutical companies (over 50 groups in all have
visited the plant). It is playing a major role in disseminating GMP knowledge and
guiding the design of GMP equipment and procedures in China.
16.   The new facility has a potential annual production capacity of 3 billion tablets.
By the end of 1994, the plant was running at about one third of its capacity, but new
products are being introduced into the production lines. Some minor modifications are
being made in the first quarter of 1995, and the plant is expected to be running at capacity
by the second quarter of 1995. By that time, the production of sugar-coated tablets and
capsules will have been brought on stream. Because of changes in the demand picture,
the new facility has over capacity in blister packs, while the plastic bottle packaging
cannot meet the increasing levels of demand for this form of packaging. Arrangements
are in hand to invest in an increase in capacity of plastic bottle filling. The Company
Management is now seeking foreign partners so that four or five new patent solid dosage
forms, with high added value, can be produced and sold in international markets.
17.   The major products to be manufactured on the new facilities in 1995 are:
Pipemolic Acid (an antibiotic), Analgin (an antipyretic), Ibuprofin (an analgesic), a
cardiovascular and a drug for relieving the symptoms of the common cold. The use of
the new facilities will raise the value of the Company's sales from less than Y 500
million in 1993 to about Y 750 million in 1995. As a consequence, the 1995 net after-tax
profit should be double that obtained in 1993.



-33 -                    Appendix E
APPENDIX E: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
THE SUMMARY AND EVALUATION ON IMPLEMENTING
WORLD BANK LOAN OF THE PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECTS
Summary of Projects
1.    There are four Pharmaceuticals Projects using World Bank Loans in this term. Up
to the beginning of 1995, all had been accomplished according to the schedule, and had
been put into production and utilization. The account number of project loan is No. 2943
China. The total loan amount is $127 million. The project was ratified at on May 24,
1988, and became effective on February 17, 1989. The loan had been closed on
December 31, 1994. The last fund was disbursed on September 29, 1995. The remaining
sum in the account was $344,000 and had been canceled.
2.    Generally speaking, the project has been implemented according to the original
schedule, and achieved the objectives for the project. In particular, the GMP training, the
construction and functioning of the Henan Drug Quality Testing Center, the smooth
completion of the powder projects in Shanghai No. 4 Pharmaceutical Factory and the
tablet projects in Shandong XinHua Pharmaceutical Factory have all played a role in
implementing GMP in Chinese pharmaceutical industry, in supplying the Chinese people
with high quality products, in guaranteeing the safety of drug consumption, and in
accessing the international markets.
3.    Nevertheless, there were a lot of problems in the process of project completion.
Now, most of problems have been solved through joint efforts of the World Bank,
Chinese agencies concerned and Henan parties concerned. But some problems have not
been solved completely. The examples are as follows: modified starch and anhydrous-
dextrose of Henan Zhong Yuan Pharmaceutical Factory (ZYPF) project have not been
produced to the required quality standards, because the foreign supplier for the project did
not have the production technology. The foreign supplier declined to be responsible after
the contract was expired. There were also a lot of problems in the process of XA and
conversion, purification of Vc, in technology and testing run. The foreign engineering
firm contracted for the project did not send qualified experts to provide on-site guidance.
The technology was modified while being tested. Continuous operation was never
realized after long period of testing run. At the time the last foreign consultant left
ZYPF, no qualified products were produced.
4.    Since the test run for the ZYPF component, considerable investigation and
development work was carried out by the Chinese experts, and ZYPF has produced
vitamin C to the required quality standards and products of quality, but output has not
been high. It is obvious that ZYPF needs to invest more money for further development.



- 34 -                  Appendix E
In 1995, ZYPF claimed for compensation from the foreign engineering firm and the
request was declined. ZYPF maintains the right for further arbitration.
Project Implementation and Present Situation
5.    The construction of Henan Zhongyuan Project was mostly completed at the end of
1992, and on April of the same year, the test and trial run of intermediate production
devices started. In 1993, the trial run of vitamin C started, eleven months later than
previously scheduled. During the Process of construction, factors like the complexities
and technicalization, delayed delivery of equipment, and alteration of design all have
certain effects on the construction period. But on the whole, the Project was completed
with high speed and good quality.
6.    The project implementation was, in general, satisfactory, although many technical
issues still exist in trial production, especially in continuous production. For example,
design of starch and glucose production devices that were supplied by a foreign company
through a bidding process, was revised even during trial run, more than forty
modifications to the design were made by the foreign supplier within half a year. Many
issues remain unsolved even after expiration of contract and departure of foreign experts.
Neither of the devices was tested and accepted. So far, 80 percent of production capacity
can be achieved after further development by Chinese experts, however, to reach full-
scale capacity, parts of key equipment need to be procured. But at present, technologies
for these two products have not met the requirement, consequently, products of required
quality have not been produced.
7.    The two sets XA and Vitamin C transformation and refinement devices were
contracted to a foreign engineering firm who not only provided design and choice of
equipment but also made some bold modifications in the techniques. However, when
trial run based on its laboratory results were practiced on the scale of 5,000 thousand tons
annual output, the operation was quite unsuccessful. Obviously methods like high
temperature adopted in concentration crystallization separation and continuous
production with cycling of mother solution were unfit for unstable nature of XA. There
are many more problems like these, even when the personnel of the foreign engineering
firm left the project site, VC Production device still failed to meet the requirement of
continuous production, and no output of required quality were produced, besides, the
device has not been able to pass test and get acceptance.
8.    Currently, quality VC and high quality VC have been manufactured after
alteration by Chinese experts, although the output remains low and further modifications
are required.
9.    D-Sorbitol facility is the only one that was examined and accepted, so far, its
operation is smooth.
10.  In view of long-term interest and to the need of urban planing and construction
and removal of Shanghai No. 4. The No. Four Pharmaceutical Factory powder injection
project was moved to Pudong New Development Zone, which is sensible and necessary.



- 35 -                   Appendix E
This project, which was designed, constructed, and managed completely in accordance
with GMP standard, was completed and started commercial operation in early 1995. It
served as a demonstration case for production of powder injection in China. The project
is successfully implemented and is making good profit.
11.   The tablet project in Shandong Xinhua Pharmaceutical Factory was completed
and put into operation in 1994. Although a revised proposal was accepted by the World
Bank and Chinese authorities in time after the loan agreement became effective, the
construction was delayed by 24 months, as the project site was much more complex than
previously expected. In practice, the GMP standard followed in construction was
relatively higher than previously designed namely, the purification grade adopted is in the
class of ten thousand, higher than the regulations for oral preparations of U.S. Food and
Drug Administration. As a result, the corresponding air cleaning system and construction
materials had to be changed, and investment had to be increased, thus the total investment
was doubled. This project was acknowledged by SPAC as a demonstration project for
application of GMP.
12.   Since its establishment Henan Drug Quality Inspection Center, has been
supervising and inspecting the quality of drugs manufactured and distributed in Henan
Province and has played a key role in managing quality of local drugs.
Project Evaluation and Existing Problems
13.   The project, utilization of a World Bank loan, has achieved the primary objectives
set for the project. The facilitates invested have been used and put into production. The
impact is obvious. The staff of the World Bank have made great effort, and played an
important role in completing the project, and have received high opinions.
14.   The two projects for Shanghai No. 4 Pharmaceutical Factory and Shandong
XinHua Pharmaceutical Factory are successful and satisfactory, and also play an
exemplary role for the implementation of the GMP standard.
15.   The GMP consciousness of relevant staff, the necessity and importance of GMP
implementation have been emphasized after the GMP training, consultation and lectures.
China is a large country with a population of 1.2 billion people. The level of people's
health and safety of drug consumption must be raised in order to achieve a higher living
standard at the end of this century. Moreover, if Chinese drugs are going to get into
international market, they must achieve the GMP standard.  If medical and
pharmaceutical industries in China are going to implement GMP standard
comprehensively, a large amount of money must be invested. We hope World Bank will
continue to support us.
16.   Although there exist a lot of difficulties in Zhong Yuan Project, they have the
advantages of large scale (scale of economy), advanced technology, high-level
automation, advanced single train processing, marketable products. The project is in
accordance with the eighth five-year planning and industrial policy of SPAC. However,
due to the foreign supplier did not have the technology for production of starch, dextrose



- 36 -                  Appendix E
and Vc, nor have experience of large-scale production. No training on existing plants
was provided for XA and Vc processing. This resulted in the infeasible project design.
Problems occurring in any link would cause a halt of the whole production line, thus
stable and continuous production have not been able to achieve.
Existing Problems
17.   Due to a number of factors, cost overruns for Henan ZYPF, Shanghai No. 4
Pharmaceutical Factory, Shandong Xinhua Pharmaceutical Factory are rather significant,
which no doubt result in much more lower profitability of these projects.
18.   For ZYPF, except for the sorbitol process, all other process units, such as starch,
sugar, vitamin C and waste water treatment could not complete guarantee and acceptance
tests. The foreign firms declined any responsibility after their contracts were expired
(including the economic loss). The equipment of starch and dextrose have operated
normally after having been improved and modified by Chinese experts. But because of
the imbalance between equipment and materials, there is only 80 percent production
capacity at present; As to other equipment for the XA transforming and deep-processing
of Vc, the foreign engineering firm has engaged several Vc technical specialists to carry
out bold innovations, but only based on 8 experiments of small scale they expanded it
into the equipment with the annual production capacity of 5,000 tons. The design was
too idealistic.  Moreover, due to lack of understanding of the raw materials and
processing flows of Vc, the designs for the technical process and the materials are both
unreasonable. In addition, as a result of lack of experience in project enlargement and
mistakes made in selecting the type of the equipment, the trial run could not be conducted
(TheVc techincal specialists resigned and left for another firm before it went for test
run.). The foreign technical personnel who led the test run were inexperienced. These
are the causes responsible for abnormal, discontinuous and inability of producing
products of Vc to meet quality standards. At the time when the foreign personnel left the
project site, no products of the required quality were produced. ZYPF has negotiated
with the foreign engineering firm several times for compensation and no agreement has
been reached. The foreign firm withdrew the last payment without ZYPF's signature.
19.   SPAC, Henan province, and the departments concerned in Zhengzhou, had no
choice but organized Chinese Vc experts to the investigate and make modifications to the
design and now products and first class products of Vc have been produced, but the
output remain very low. It needs further improvement. Therefore, ZYPF has suffered
great economic loss and is still in dispute with the foreign engineering firm. ZYPF
reserves the right for further arbitration.
20.   So far, we ask the World Bank to help ZYPF continue to solve the production as
well as other problems so that the project can be put to operation as early as possible, and
to make the most out of the investment.
21.   The problems with ZYPF also have something to do with the factory's
management experience and the quality of staff .












IMAGING
Report No:        15831
Type: ICR



