Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLI
Report :%'o. 7096-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
April 27, 1988
China Industry and Finance Operations Division, AS3 (China)
Country Department III
Asia Technical Department
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 1, 1988)
Currency Name   -  Renminbi (RMB)
Currency Unit   =  Yuan (Y) = 100 Fen
Y 1.00          = US$0.27
US$1.00         =  Y 3.7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)              2.47 acres
1 metric ton (ton)     =   1,000 Kilograms (Kg)
1 kilometer (km)            0.621 miles
1 cubic meter (m3)          35.3147 cubic feet (cf)
1 kilocalorie (kcal)   =   3,968 British Thermal Units (BTU)
1 kilowatt (kW)        =   1,000 Watts
1 megawatt (MW)        =   1,000 kilowatts (kW)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIB         -   China Investment Bank
CPE         -   Centrally Planned Economy
EEC         -   European Economic Community
FDA         -   US Food and Drug Administration
GDP         -   Gross Domestic Product
GMP         -   Good Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Practice
GOC         -   Government of the People's Republic of China
CSP         -   Good Shop Practice
ITC         -   International Tendering Company
MOF         -   Ministry of Finance
MOPH        -   Ministry of Public Health
QCC         -   Henan Provincial pharmaceutical Quality Control Center
R&D         -   Research and Devet.opment
SEC         -   State Economic Commission
SINOPEC     -   China Petrochemical Corporation
SPAC        -   State Pharmaceutical Administration of China
SPB         -   State Pricing Bureau
SPC         -   State Planning Commission
TCM         -   Traditional Chinese Medicines
TNC         -   Transnational Pharmaceutical Company
tpd         -   tons per day
tpa         -   tons per annum
UNICEF      -   United Nations Children's Fund
UNIDO       -   United Nations Industrial Development Organization
WHO         -   World Health Organization
ZYPF        -   Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory
ZYPFPO      -   Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory Preparation Office
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31



FOR OMCLIL USE ONLY
CHINA
PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               The People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries:          Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory,
Xin Hua Pharmaceuticals Factory,
Shanahai No. 4 Pharmaceuticals Factory,
IBRD Loan Amount:       US$127.0 million equivalent.
Terms of Loan:          20-years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:        The Government will onlend to Henan Province US$117.5
million equivalent. Henan Province will relend
US$117.5 million equivalent to ZYPF at 105Z of the
Bank's variable interest rate with a commitment fee of
0.75% and a 15-year repayment period including 5 years
of grace. The Government will onlend US$5.0 million
equivalent to Xin Hua Pharmaceutical Factory and
US$4.5 million equivalent to Shanghai No. 4
Pharmaceutical Factory for the GMP component at 105%
of the Bank's variable interest rate for 15 years with
a five-year grace period. The commitment charges and
foreign exchange risk would be passed on to the
beneficiaries.
Project Description:    The propoaed Project is designed to assist China in
expanding pharmaceutical production using modern
technologies, improving the quality of pharmaceutical
products and their manufacturing practice, modifying
the supply pattern of drugs to match changing demand,
and increasing the potential for export from the
subsector. The specific components of the Project
include: (a) establishing at Zhong Yuan large-scale
production of starches, dextrose, sorbitol and Vitamin
C in what will be the largest pharmaceutical factory
in Chira; (b) provision of advanced analytical equip-
ment fcc the Henan Provincial Pharmaceutical Quality
Contro Center (QCC); and (c) implementing invest-
ments, procedures and training for the adoption of
Good Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Practice (GMP) in
two demonstration factories.
This document has a  stricted distribution and may be used by recipients only intheoperfornince
of their offcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Benefits and Risks:      The Zhong Yuan Pharmaceutical Factory (ZYPF) component
will significantly increase domestic production and
exports from the pharmaceuticals subsector. The
demonstration effects from the introduction of Good
Manufacturing Practice will not only raise the quality
of drugs destined for the domestic market (thus having
a beneficial impact on the population's health) but
will lead to lower unit costs and higher capacity
utilization throughout the industry, as well as
developing the potentiil for export of higher value-
added formulations. No unusual risks are involved in
the project. Government agencies are fuLly committed
to the program to introduce GMP: the implementation
and marketing arrangements for the ZYPF component have
been designed to minimize risks associated with
construction and market penetration.



- iii -
Project Cost:
Local          Foreign        Total
---- (USs million EquivalentT ---
Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory
Component                               50.3           80.9          131.2
Good Manufacturing Practice Component    4.6              8.2           12.8
Henan Province Pharmaceutical Quality
Control Component                         -             1.0            1.0
Base Cost (January 1988 prices)        54.9           90.1          145.0
Physical contingencies                     3.6            8.9           12.5
Price contingencies                        3.0           10.1           13.1
Installed cost /a                      61.5          109.1          170.6
Working Capital                           17.3             -            17.3
Interest During Construction               4.2           20.9           25.1
Total Financing Required              83.0          130.0          213.0
Financing Plan
IBRD                               -           127.0          127.0
Domestic Loans                   48.3             -            48.3
Companies' Internal Funds        15.2            2.0           17.2
Equity Contribution              19.5             -            19.5
Government Loan (QCC)              -             1.0            1.0
Total Financing                  83.0          130.0          213.0
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY              1989       1990      1991       1992       1993
-          (USs milllon Equivalent)      …
Annual                10.2      34.6      44.5       32.0        5.7
Cumulative            10.2      44.B      89.3      121.3      127.0
Economic Rate of Return: 25%
/a   Total installed cost excludes import duties, which are not levied but
includes 3% sales tax on locally procured equipment and materials.



- iv -
CHINA
PHARKACEUTICALS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .....................................                 (i)
I.  INTOUTIO R...........                    C     T IO..N# .......            1
II.  BACKGROUND TO THE CHINESE PHARMACEUTICALS SUBSECTOR...........             2
A. The Industrial Sector in Chi             h     i.        ......        2
B.  The World Pharmaceuticals Industry... ........ .......                4
III.  THE CHINESE PHARMACEUTICAL SUBSECTOR ..........................            6
A.  The Pharmaceuticals Industry in China..*.* i n............            6
B.  Major Issues Affecting the Pharmaceuticals Subsector......            8
C.  The Government's Subsector Objectives and Strategy..gy..*            12
D.  Project Justification and Rationale for Bank Support....             13
IV.  PROJECT INSTITUTIONST............... &I....                               14
A.  The State Pharmaceutical Administration of China...                  14
B.  Henan Provincial Pharmaceutical Bureaur....e.........                14
C.  Henan Provincial Pharmaceutical Quality Control Center....           15
D.  Zhong Yuan Pharmaceutical Factorya        ct....o.ry..............   15
E.  Shanghai No. 4 Pharmaceutical Factory       ctor.........e...        15
F.  Shandong Xin Hua Pharmaceutical Factory....                          16
V. THE PROJECT**#.*.**..... ........        .      .                          17
A.  Project Objectives****,e....                                         17
B.  Zhong Yuan Pharmaceutical Factory Component....*..onen              17
C.  Henan Province Pharmaceutical Quality Control Center
Component.*n...  .e                                  nt.. ...  .... *so  19
D. Good Manufacturing Practice Component*n...                            20
VI.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION...............           22
A.  Engineering Arrangementsm                         e nts.... ....  . .. .. ...  22
B.  Project Management.a.        a g e            me....n t....          23
C.  Implementation Schedule and Status..........                         23
D.  Employment and Training..ra.        i     n    in............        25
E.  Environmental Aspectsp...                                            26
This report was prepared by Messrs. D. A. Caplin, R. Reath, R. Venkateswaran,
J. Owen and M. Peretz (Consultant). The appraisal mission took place November
16 - December 11, 1987.



v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Page No.
VII.  CAPITAL COSTS, FINANCING PLAN AND PROCUREMENT .................           27
A.  Capital Cost Estimates......................... r......               27
B.  Financing Plaan..                                                     28
Co  Procurement..........*ee..... e......*.*. ......ooo*o                 31
D.  Allocation and Disbursement of Bank Loan.o.a.........o..              32
VIII. PRODUCT MARKETS AND MARKETING....................o............            35
A.  Main Products. . ........... .*. 0. . . ... ....   . ... .*. . . . .  36
B.  By Products,.**...........          ...........    ....* .......      38
C.  Mareig r.... k....             e      ti.........   n g*......        38
IX.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS      ......      ...... AY.*................. ...      40
A.  Financial Projections.................................                40
B.  Financial Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis.........            42
C.  Financial Covenantso     vnt......*................ ..... ooo o.      42
D.  Auditing and Reporting Requirementsuieoe.o...ts.... oo....            43
X.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS....N     A       LY.SI..................o............*..  44
A.  Economic Costs and Benefits n.o...e         f     i    tso.o. .o..o..... oo.  44
B.  Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis..os.... .            44
C.  Net Foreign Exchange Savingsa        v     i     n    gs..o.... .. o..o..o... o.  45
D.  Sectoral Contribution and Other Benefits..ooi...s..o...o..            45
E.  Project RTskCE iskEC...sNDATION..s..0s.00........        .....        45
XI .  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMEDTONMHENDATI. o.o O                 N.oo    47



- vi
ANNEXES
1     The World Pharmaceuticals 'ndustry
2     Organization of the Chinese Pharmaceuticals Industry
3     The GNP Program of the State Pharmaceutical Administration of China
4     ZYPF Project Scope (description and block flow diagram)
5     ZYPF Implementation Organization
6     Project Implementation Schedules and milestones for (a) ZYPF
and (b) CMP Component
7     Outlines of Recruitment and Training Programs
8     Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for Introduction of GMP
9     Capital Cost Estimates
10    Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Bank Loan
11    Equipment to be Procured Under the Loan
12    Assumptions Used in Financial Analysis
13    ZYPF - Projected Income Statement
14    ZYPF - Projected Balance Sheet
15    ZYPF - Projected Funds Flow Statement
16    ZYPF - Cost and Benefit Streams for FRR Calculation
17    Assumptions Used in Economic Analysis
18    ZYPF - Economic Rate of Return Calculation
19   List of Documents in the Project File
20   MAPS
Location of Project Components (IBRD
20271)
Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory and
the Environs (IBRD 20272)
Layout of Zhong Yuan Pharmacetuicals
Factory (World Bank 4048) pg. 102



CHINA
PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       The Government of the People's Republic of China (the Government,
GOC) has requested a Bank loan of US$127.0 million equivalent to finance the
Pharmaceuticals Project (the Project). The Project aims at supporting the
Covernment's major objectives in the pharmaceuticals subsector, namely:
(a)  expanding pharmaceutical production using modern technologies;
(b) improving the quality of pharmaceutical products and their
manufacturing practices;
(c) modifying the supply pattern of pharmaceuticals to meet changing
demand due in part to demographic changes; and
(d) increasing the potential for exports from the subsectvr.
1.2       The Project consists of four components:
(a) support for the implementation of the Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals
Factory (ZYPF) located at Zhengzhou in Henan Province (Map IBRD
20271), which will produce a variety of pharmaceutical products
including starches, dextrose, sorbitol, and vitamin C;
(b) support for the Henan Province Pharmaceutical Quality Control Center
(QCC);
(c) support for the introduction of "Good Pharmaceutical Manufacturing
Practice" (GMP) in two pharmaceuticals factories located at Xin Hua
(Shandong) and Shanghai; and
(d)  technical assistance for training in operations, maintenance,
marketing and CMP.
The Project will require total financing, including physical and price con-
tingencies and interest during construction, of about US$213 million with
US$130 million in foreign exchange. The proposed Bank loan of US$127.0 mil-
lion equivalent will cover 60X of the total financing required (net of taxes)
and 98Z of the total foreign exchange.



1.3       The Project was initially proposed to the Bank's identification
mission in November 1986, prepared by a subsequent Bank mission in July 1987
and appraised in November 1987 by Messrs. D. A. Caplin, R. Heath,
R. Venkateswaran, J. Owen and M. Peretz (Consultant).
II. BACKGROUND TO THE CHINESE PHARMACEUTICALS SUBSECTOR
A. The Industrial Sector in China
2.1       Gener4t.  Industry is China's largest productive sector accounting
for nearly 47% of its Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and employing 17% of
the total labor force. About 94,000 state enterprises generate 74% of total
industrial output, the remainder being produced by about 368,000 nonstate
enterprises, mainly urban and rural collectives. Gross industrial output
amounted to Y 1,119 billion (US$323 billion) in 1986. The chemical industry
accounted for 10% of total output with over a third of this sector's contri-
bution coming from the petrochemicals subsector. The pharmaceuticals sub-
sector, which is large by world standards, had a gross output of Y 17 billion
(US$4.6 billion) in 1986.
2.2       Gross value of industrial production has grown over 11% in real
terms per year in the period 1980-86, in large part reflecting the high rate
of capital accumulation in industry. Over the two decades from the mid-
fifties to the mid-seventies, Chinese industry was oriented mainly toward the
rapidly growing domestic market. Since then, Chinese manufactured exports
have grown rapidly from around US$8 billion equivalent to over US$20 billion
in 1986. The share of exports in industrial output remains low (6.2%).
2.3       The Government's Sector Objectives and Strategy.  China's industrial
sector development is constrained by outdated production technologies, poorly
coordinated economic planning, and a distorted structure of industrial prices.
The industry structure is biased to basic, heavy industries with all their
attendant disadvantages in terms of flexibility for change, lumpiness in
investment needs, centralized management structure with little incentives for
innovation, severe distribution constraints, low output prices, and major
needs for plant rehabilitation and modernization. About 80% of industrial
fixed assets are of pre-1960 vintage. The consumption of raw materials and
energy in factories amounts to 85% of manufacturing production costs.
Although this high rate is partly due to the relatively low cost of labor, it
also reflects inefficient use of inputs in the production process. Incentives
for more efficient input use have been impeded by low prices of energy and
basic intermediates. In addition, past excessive focus on physical output and
quantitative targets, compounded with inadequate links with markets, often led
enterprises to neglect improvements in product quality and range.



2.4       Since 1979, the Chinese Government has attempted systematically to
remove fundamental weakness_s in the economy. The development strategy has
emphasized modernization of existing equipment, development of more efficient
light industry and of manufactured exports, and material and energy conserva-
tion in industry. Reforms adopted in 1984 aim at decentralizing economic
decision-making towards provinces and enterprises, and greater use of market
signals to provide production incentives. State enterprise reforms, including
inter alia the contract management responsibility system, profit taxes
and wage incentives, have provided greater autonomy and more appropriate
incentives for enterprise management. However, significant distortions in
relative prices still remain and the objective of replacing the traditionally
"soft" enterprise budget constraint has yet to be achieved. The reforms are
being implemented at a different pace among regions and subsectors. Because
of the nature and structure of the pharmaceutical subsector, the process of
decentralization has already progressed to a greater degree than in some other
industrial subsectors.
2.5       Bank Support for Industry.  The Bank's Group industrial lending
operations in China began in 1982 with the approval of the First China
Investment Bank (CIB) Project (Loan/Credit 2226/1313-CHA in December 1982, for
a total of US$70.6 million). Three more loan and credit operations to CIB
(Loan/Credit 2434/1491-CHA in FY84 for a total of US$175 million, Loan/Credit
2659/1663-CHA in FY86 for a total of US$100 million, and Loan/Credit
2783/1763-CHA in March 1987 for a total of US$300 million) have been
approved. Of the total amount lent to this institution of US$645.6 million,
US$294 million was disbursed and outstanding as at January 1, 1988.  The main
purpose of the CIB operations has been to develop CIB as the premier financial
intermediary providing term financing for small- and medium-scale industry.
CIB operations to date have supported a wide range of subsectors, including:
textile, light industry, electronics, food processing, pharmaceuticals,
packaging materials, machinery and spare parts, building materials, chemicals
and metallurgical, and other, in a number of provinces, but principally in
Jiangsu, Shanghai, Tianjin, Hebei, Beijing, Hubei, Liaoning, Anhui and
Zhejiang. The wide range of subsectors and tne well-dispersed geographical
pattern have allowed CIB and its principal branches to develop strong institu-
tional ties to small- and medium-scale industry in the country.  Disbursements
of the CIB loans and credits are, apart from some delays on the first operat-
ion, ahead of schedules.  While CIB's manpower and systems require additional
strengthening, the basis of a sound development bank, particularly with
respect to its leading branches, has been established.  Besides the four CIB
operations, Bank Group involvement comprises:  (a) two loans, totalling
US$194.6 million (Loan 2541-CHA, May 1985 and Loan 2838-CHA, June 1986) for a
Fertilizer Rehabilitation and Energy Saving Project and a Fertilizer
Rationalization Project; (b) a loan of US$100 million (Loan 2784-CHA, April
1987) for the Shanghai Machine Tool Project, involving rehabilitation and
modernization of machine tool sector in Shanghai; and (c) a regional develop-
ment project (Credit 1835-CHA) for Gansu Province (Loan/Credit 2812/1793-CHA,
April 1987) including an industrial development component of US$20 million, to
be used for diversification and modernization of the predominantly rural
industrial base in the province. Physical implementation of the first two
fertilizer projects is proceeding satisfactorily and procurement actions on



- 4-
the other two industrial projects have been initiated. A Planning Support and
Special Studies Project, which includes components for supporting long-term
planning activities in selected subsectors, including petrochemicals, was
approved in June 1987. No PCR's have yet been prepared on any of the above
projects. IFC support, since the first operation in 1985, totals US$25
million equivalent (of which US$2 million equivalent is in the form of
equity), covering the following projects: Guangzhou and Peugeot (Investment
No. 813), China Investment Company (Investment No. 974) and Shenzen China
Bicycles Co., Ltd. (not yet signed).
2.6       The Bank's overall objectives in the industrial sector are to assist
the Government to: (a) improve the policy framework for the sector as a
whole; (b) build sound institutions and practices for financial intermedia-
tion, subsector planning and project approval and implementation; (c) promote
and implement technology upgrading, plant structuring and rehabilitation and
energy and material conservation in selected subsectors at the national and
provincial levels; and (d) carry out the needed reforms in the financial
sector. The present and the emerging operational pipelines reflect the above
strategic thrust. Specific plans include further support for both CIB and
other financial intermediaries, in the context of overall sector reforms now
underway, assistance to selected major subsectors at the national and
provincial levels, namely, Fertilizers, Pharmaceuticals and Machine Tools, and
the development of broad-based industrial lending operations at the provincial
level, involving restructuring of major subsectors in the context of overall
provincial development strategies. The increasing devolution of planning and
implementation responsibility to the provinces has the potential for a signi-
ficant impact on the industrial sector, providing that the ptovincial authori-
ties can effectively enunciate and carry out their new role. The anticipated
series of provincial operations will be designed to help selected provinces
articulate and implement Lneir new responsibilities. Operations are also
planned in rural industry initially through the SPARK program that is provid-
ing technical and financial support to selected rural enterprises, many of
which are outside the state sector.
B. The World Pharmaceuticals Industry
2.7       Global pharmaceutical sales iy,1986, in the end product (formula-
tion) form, amounted to US$114 billion.-   Both consumption and production of
1/   The manufacture of pharmaceuticals is carried out in two phases.  First,
bulk active substances are produced either by multistage synthesis from
chemical raw materials, plants or animal organs or by a fermentation
process which is then often followed by synthesis. Second, the bulk
active ingredients are processed into formulations and packaged dosage
forms which are often sold under brand names.



- 5 -
pharmaceuticals are concentrated in developed countries, with the USA, Western
Europe and Japan accounting for 70% o' world consumption and over 85% of world
production. A significant part of world trade is between the developed coun-
tries themselves, with developing countries (and to a lesser extent Centrally
Planned Economies (CPEs)) obtaining a large part of their pharmaceutical needs
from developed countries. The six large exporting countries (USA, FRG, UK,
Switzerland, France and Italy) account for over 70% of world exports. The
high concentration of production in developed countries is associated with the
dominant position of transnational pharmaceutical companies (TNCs) in these
countries. The technological and economic advantages enjoyed by the TNCs,
particularly in terms of resource availability (especially to finance high R&D
costs) and economies of scale, have constrained the development of economical-
ly viable pharmaceutical industries outside the industrialized countries.
2.8       Only a small number of countries have the necessary attributes and
conditions conducive to the establishment and growth of a viable major pharma-
ceutical industry. These include the existence of a substantial chemical
industry, skilled personnel, a threshold level of highly qualified profession-
al scientists and managers, large markets (whether domestic or export), access
to efficient technologt, and an ability to organize, finance and maintain a
substantial R&D activity efficiently. China is one of about a dozen develop-
ing countries where the above requirements are met. Annex 1 contains a
detailed overview of the world pharmaceutical industry.



- 6 -
III. THE CHINESE PHARMACEUTICAL SUBSECTOR
A. The Pharmaceuticals Industry in China
3.1       Structure and Production.  China's pharmaceutical industry ranks
sixth in the world in terms of value of production (about the same size as
Italy's, and somewhat larger than Switzerland). The pharmaceutical industry
consists of about 400 manufacturing units producing traditional Chinese
Medicines (TCMs) and about 840 factories p57ducing western-style drugs. Total
output in 1986 amounted to Y 15.2 billion - (US$4.1 billion), of which
western medicines accounted for Y 12.6 billion (US$3.4 billion) and TCMs Y 2.6
billion (US$0.7 billion).
3.2       Currently, the industry produces about 60,000 tons of 1,400 bulk
active substances, of which about 40-45% by weight (though only 7% by value)
is exported, while the remaining 55-60% is processed into 4,000 pharmaceutical
formulations primarily for the domestic market. All the pharmaceuticals on
the World Health Organization (WHO) list of 200 essential drugs are produced
in China. Certain kinds of drugs are in short supply, including some anti-
biotics, amino acids, vitamins, antitumor drugs and insulin. The quality of
drugs produced is, however, probably the major problem facing the pharmaceut-
ical industry in China today. The remarkable increases in both value of
production and labor productivity in the last 20 years are shown in the table
below. In 1965, the value of production (in 1985 constant Yuan) per worker
was 3,060; this had risen to 10,991 in 1975 and to 26,641 by 1985--an average
growth rate of 11.4% per year over the 20-year period. The average value of
output per factory rose at 6.02 per year over the same period. These
increases are attributed to the use of better technologies, capturing econ-
omies of scale and increased shift working.
2/ Medical instruments which are produced by the Pharmaceuticals industry
accounted for a further Y 1.8 million.



Table 3.1: CHINA - GROWTH OF INDUSTRY PRODUCING
WESTERN PHARMACEUTICALS
Average annual
growth rate (Z)
1965    1975    1985    1965-75   1975-85
Number of plants                       192      679     839    13.5        2.1
Total value of production
(current billion yuan)             0.867     3.51   10.71    15.0       11.8
Total value of production
(constant 1985 billion yuan)       0.771     3.77   10.71    17.2       11.0
Number of workers in production
companies ('000)                     252      343     402      3.1       1.6
3.3       Responsibility for overseeing the pharmaceutical industry is shared
by the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) and the State Pharmaceutical
Administration of China (SPAC). The MOPH is responsible for the formulation
of policies regulating drug use and administration, drug quality control and
supervision and drug registration. In the past, SPAC was directly responsible
for all aspects of production, supply and research and development, while
enterprise ownership rested with the collective, township, municipal or
provincial governments. However, with increasing decentralization to the
local authurities, SPAC's role is evolving into one of guidance rather than
direct responsibility. A detailed description of the organization structure
of the pharmaceutical industry is given in Annex 2.
3.4       Foreign Trade.  The following table shows the growth of Chinese
domestic production and foreign trade in Western pharmaceuticals over the last
two decades.
Table 3.2: CHINA'S DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN TRADE
IN WESTERN PHARMACEUTICALS
1965      1975      1985
Value of production (Yuan million)       867     3,510    10,709 /a
Exports (US$ million)                     13        47        240
Imports (US$ million)                      3         17       100 /b
/a   Value of Production in 1985 was US$3.8 billion at
Y 2.84 = US$1.
/b   A further US$200 million of medical instruments were
imported.



- 8 -
In 1985, in addition to the exports of Western medicines of US$240 million, a
further US$210 million of traditional medicines and herbs were exported,
mainly to Southeast Asia and the USA. Exports of Western medicines are mostly
bulk active substances (the main market for which is Western Europe) with
formulation products accounting for only 1% of the total. Imports are usually
of products not produced in China, particularly new antibiotics, and are
usually formulated products. Drugs which are produced in China, but which are
in short supply, are rarely imported. Import and export of western drugs are
mainly carried out by the China National Health Care Products Import and
Export Corporation, and the decision to allocate production to exports is the
responsibility of SPAC.
3.5       Domestic Marketing.  It is estimated that traditional medicine
accounted in 1986 for sales of approximately Y 2.5 billion or 17% of total
pharmaceuticals sales, while Western medicine sales amount to Y 12.6 billion
or 83% of total pharmaceutical sales. Traditional Chinese medicines and herbs
are mainly sold through private channels, with 4nly 15% going through official
retail outlets; there is therefore some uncertainty about the total sales of
these products. Western medicines, on the other hand, are mainly channeled
through commercial corporations (wholesalers at the state, province and muni-
cipal level) and then to hospitals; bulk drugs are directly traded between
producers and formulation enterprises. Of the total sales of formulations,
90% are channeled through commercial corporations, with 82% going to hospitals
and 8% to retail outlets. Of the 10% of direct sales, 8% go to hospitals and
2Z to retail outlets. A recently introduced reform enables producing enter-
prises to sell their products through their own retail outlets.
3.6       With the partial decontrol of pharmaceutical prices, producing
enterprises will be allowed (in many cases) to compete with each other on the
basis of price, contract terms, service and quality. No restrictions will be
placed on interprovincial sales. Some producers have a separate marketing and
sales unit, while others have combined the functions of marketing and
purchasing. Although price decontrol has placed growing emphasis on the
marketing activity of enterprises, a major role in marketing is still
performed by local commercial corporations, which control the supply of
products in the local markets.
B. Major Issues Affecting the Pharmaceuticals Sector
3.7       Technology.  The high rate of growth of the Chinese pharmaceutical
industry, particularly in the decade 1965-75, depended to a large extent on
the acquisition of technology, mainly from foreign sources. Much of this
technology is still in use today; however, it has become less and less compe-
titive, not only from the points of view of costs and yields, but also from
those of quality and efficiency of finished products. Since formulation
activities were initially emphasized more than the production of bulk active
substances, the equipment for the former is more outdated (corresponding
basically to that introduced in Western markets in the 1950s), while technol-
ogies used for the production of bulk active substances correspond to a large
extent to those introduced in the 1970s in industrialized countries. Only
5-10% of equipment utilized in China is equal in performance to that utilized
in plants starting up in the 1980s in industrialized countries. The problem



- 9 -
is even greater with respect to the equipment used for the preparation of
traditional (herbal) medicines; this production equipment, which is mainly of
Chinese design, is 40-50 years out of date compared to that installed in
industrialized countries.
3.8       New technologies are also needed to address a new emerging issue for
the Chinese pharmaceutical industry. Over the last 35 years, the expectation
of life at birth has increased from 39 years to 69 years, a figure which
approaches that of fully industrialized countries (73-79 for most Western
European countries and the USA). One effect of this increased life
expectancy, reinforced by Chinese family planning policies, is that the age
distribution of the population is changing, with an increasing proportion of
old people in the population. Both the absolute level of demand for
pharmaceuticals and the pattern of distribution of demand can therefore be
expected to change. In some industrialized countries, about 50% of all
pharmaceuticals are consumed by those aged 65 and over. At the same time,
demand can be expected to increase for those pharmaceuticals used for treating
conditions associated with old age (e.g., cardiovasculars, anticancer drugs,
antiarthritics, etc.). The demand for diet supplements, e.g., Vitamin C, also
increases with age. For all these reasons, the pharmaceutical industry must,
therefore, invest considerably in the acquisition and implementation of new
technologies. The industry is meeting this challenge in three main ways:
(a) by the acquisition of process licenses from abroad;
(b) by entering into joint ventures with transnationals and other major
pharmaceutical producers and marketers from industrialized coun-
tries; nine major joint ventures are currently being implemented;
and
(c) by the development of indigenous processes which are competitive.
This route is constrained by the shortage of senior technical per-
sonnel and advanced equipment in the 16 Pharmaceutical Research and
Development Institutions in China. Because of the shortage, the R&D
activities are rightly concentrated on process  provements rather
than the development of new, original products _  which are very
much more expensive in terms of manpower and equipment requirements.
3.9       Quality of Drugs.  The major law regulating the use and control of
drugs in China is the Drug Administration Law of the People's Republic of
China, which was promulgcted in September 1984, and became operative in July
1985. According to this law, the Bureau of Drug Policy and Administration of
the MOPH and the equivalent bodies at the provincial, municipal and county
level are responsible for drug quality control and supervision and for the
corresponding inspection service. A total of over 1,100 drug quality control
institutes have beeu set up all over China, employing around 13,000 techni-
cians, to implement and enforce the provisions of this law. However, given
the vast size of the country, the number of producing enterprises and the
3/   China grants patents for processes, but not for products.



- 10 -
skill levels of the technicians employed, the scope and quality of coverage
leaves room for considerable improvement.
3.10      CMP.  The problem of drug quality is also being tackled by the
Government on another front, which is to promote the use by manufacturing
enterprises of Good Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Practice (GMP). GMP is
defined as that part of Quality Assurance aimed at ensuring that products are
constantly manufactured to a quality appropriate to their intended use. It is
thus concerned with both manufacturing and quality control procedures. The
concept of GMP is adhered to by the pharmaceutical industry in all
industrialized countries. While each country has its own rules for applying
these standards, the USA and Western European standards differ only in detail
and are essentially equivalent. The World Health Organization (WHO) has
issued GMP standards which may be applied to drugs that are traded in
international commerce (particularly to developing countries). A government
which is a signatory to the WHO certification scheme must certify that drugs
to be exported have been produced in an enterprise meeting the WHO GMP
standards. China is not yet a signatory to this scheme. Pharmaceutical
factories that intend to export to the USA are inspected by the US Food and
Drug Administration (FDA) inspectors to ensure that the factories meet GMP
standards before import to the USA is permitted. Other industrialized
countries employ similar procedures. Few existing Chinese pharmaceutical
processes and facilities 4an currently pass such scrutiny; consequently,
exports are constrained.    As a consequence of the lack of adherence to GMP
in China's pharmaceutical industry, a high proportion of drugs is rejected by
the Drug Control Institutes in different provinces and cities in China.
Furthermore, there is incomplete coverage of drugs by these institutes and
some drugs of low quality have undoubtedly been reaching the market place,
resulting in obvious dangers to public health.
3.11      The Chinese authorities are aware of the above deficiencies of most
Chinese pharmaceutical plants, and have set up a program for the introduction
of GMP throughout the entire industry (para 3.17). All new plants will adhere
to CMP standards in design, construction and operation. For all the 1,240
existing plants (covering both bulk chemicals and formulated pharmaceuticals
as well as Chinese traditional medicines), the program is intended to ensure
the introduction of GMP and the raising of standards to international levels
by the year 2000. Pilot GMP audits have been performed at three typical
pharmaceutical complexes; the foreign exchange costs of implementing the
recommendations of two of these audits are to be financed by one component of
this Project. The lessons learned from these audits and the implementation of
their recommendations will be applied at a later stage to the industry wide
program of introduction of GMP (Annex 3). Three standards of acceptable CMP
are to be introduced in the Chinese Pharmaceuticals Industry. A small number
of plants, which are planning to export formulations to Western Europe or the
US, will adopt US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) standards of GMP. These
4/   Apart from joint ventures, only 10 bulk active ingredient plants in China
have received FDA approval. As yet, no formulation plants have FDA
approval.



- 11 -
standards are more or less equivalent to those adopted by Western European
countries. Most Chinese plants, whether aiming at exports to other areas, or
producing for the domestic market, will adopt WHO standards which, while
satisfactory, are somewhat less rigorous than the US FDA standards. A small
number of plants will adopt a "high Chinese GMP" level, currently being
formulated. Plants which fail to take measures designed to meet these
standards will eventually have to shut down.
3.12      Pricing Policies.  Currently there are three categories of ex-
factory prices for pharmaceuticals:
(a) Fixed Prices. The prices of commonly used drugs (e.g., penicillin,
erythromycin, Vitamin C, etc.) are fixed by either the central or
provincial governnent authorities. Between 20-30% of bulk products
and 10-20% of formulations have fixed prices.
(b) Guided Prices. The central or provincial governments fix a "ceiling
price" on certain pharmaceuticals. The profit margins allowed on
these products are generally 15% higher than on products with fixed
prices.
(c) Free Prices. Prices of drugs in this category are negotiated
between producers and wholesalers or retailers. Over 70% of bulk
products and 80% of formulations come under this category.
SPAC recommends to the State Pricing Bureau (SPB) the pricing category for
drugs and the prices for drugs that are fixed by the State. Prices are
reviewed by SPAC annually, and the proposals for price increases are cleared
with the SPB. Pharmaceutical producers are also allowed to ask SPAC for
interim price increases if warranted by sudden increases in raw material
prices, and these requests are processed by SPAC and the SPB expeditiously.
Fixed and guided prices are based on a normative efficient producer's
production cost, allowing for profit margins of 30-35% on bulk products and
10-15% on formulations. Inefficient producers will face lower profit rates or
even have to sell at a loss. Since each provincial government can decide for
which drugs it wants to fix the prices, there are price variations between
provinces; however, in practice such price differences are negligible and do
not lead to the formation of illegal markets. Wholesale prices are fixed at
16% over the ex-factory price. Retail prices (at retail outlets and
hospitals) are fixed at 15X over wholesale prices. With the prevailing low
interest rates on working capital financing, credit terms are not widely used
as a basis for competition.
3.13      Producers are subsidized 100% by the State Family Planning
Commission for the manufacture of contraceptives. Wholesalers and retailers
of contraceptives receive 7% of the ex-factory price to cover distribution and
selling costs. The Ministry of Public Health also subsidizes the producers of
certain drugs used to treat some endemic diseases.
3.14      Pricing Levels.  A comparison of a sample of Chinese and European
pharmaceuticals (on an ex-factory basis) showed that Chinese formulation
prices are generally about 25-50% of those ruling in Western Europe, while



- 12 -
prices of bulk active substances range between 25-100% of Western European
Prices.   The basic reasons for these differences are:
(a) Chinese ex-factory costs of formulations include virtually no
marketing or R&D expenditure; these items can add up to 30-40% of
Western European ex-factory costs;
(b) packaging in China is much less sophisticated and thus cheaper than
in Western European markets;
(c) product liability insurance, an increasingly heavy item in Western
European markets, is not incurred in China; and
(d) plant and equipment are depreciated at lower rates than in
industrialized countries.
The above items account for well over 50% of typical Western European ex
factory costs of finished products.
3.15      Despite the overall lower prices of pharmaceuticals, the
Pharmaceutical Industry as a whole in China makes a profit. Prices, although
very much lower than in Western Europe, still represent 58% of total health
care costs in China compared with, say, the UK, where pharmaceuticals
represent 10% of the cost of the National Health Service. Low salary levels
of doctors in China partly account for this difference, but pharmaceuticals
account for a higher proportion of per capita income in China than in Western
countries.
C. The Government's Subsector Objectives and Strategy
3.16      Objectives.  The Government envisages important and complementary
roles for both western medicines and TCMs in promoting public health. The
Government's primary objectives for western medicines are: to raise the
quality of pharmaceuticals produced; expand and diversify pharmaceuticals
supply to meet changing demand; improve research and development capacity; and
increase export potential. In the area of TCMs, the Government's objectives
are to strengthen R&D activities, improve and standardize product quality, and
increase exports.
3.17      Strategy.  In order to achieve these objectives, the Government is
simultaneously moving forward on many fronts. Firstly, in order to acquire
advanced foreign technologies and expertise, the Government is actively pro-
moting international contacts, financing imports of modern technologies and
equipment and encouraging foreign investments primarily in the form of joint
ventures. Secondly, to address the problems of low product quality, the
Government has embarked on a comprehensive program to introduce Good
Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Practice (CMP) standards on a nationwide basis
(paras. 3.10-3.11). (Annex 3 contains a copy of a strategy statement provided
by SPAC to the Bank and which outlines the action plan for this program). The
long-term objective of the program is to achieve total mandatory compliance
with GMP by the year 2000. Given the fact that over 1,000 plants will have to
be retrofitted (or shut down) and an adequate inspectorate and monitoring



- 13 -
system installed, the above objective is ambitious but achievable, provided
adequate resources are expended on this program. In the interim, the program
includes the following action plans, inter alia: upgrading a limited number
of existing facilities in the first phase to serve as demonstration projects
and followed later by a wider introduction of GMP and associated activities;
providing training to personnel in GMP audits, implementation and operations;
and introducing appropriate GMP legislation and establishing the complementary
institutional framework to supervise and ensure its implementation. At nego-
tiations, assurances have been obtained from GOC that it will submit for
comment, by December 31 1990, an industry-wide program for the introduction of
GMP during the Eighth Five Year Plan (1991-1995) and shall thereafter exchange
views with the Bank on changes in the GMP program, particularly in the light
of experience under the Project.  The provision of this program and progress
in implementing it would be linked to Bank support for a possible second
project to introduce GMP into some 40 pharmaceuticals plants.
D. Project Justification and Rationale for Bank Support
3.18      The importance that China places on its pharmaceutical sector
is evident from the Government's commitment to provide resources to modernize
its pharmaceutical facilities and undertake measures to improve product
quality. Bank involvement in the project preparation was a major factor in
the decision by the Chinese authorities to have the project reviewed by
experienced international consultants (not financed by the Bank). The Bank
assisted in the preparation of the TOR, (particularly covering project size
and comparative advantage, local and international market development,
marketing and other training requirements, and efficient project implementa-
tion), and in the detailed discussion of the consultants' recommendations and
their implementation. The recommendations formed the basis of the subsequent
discussions between the Bank and the Chinese authorities on the detailed
project design; the management of such a large and complex investment will be
a model for subsequent plants. Through the dialogue with the Chinese
authorities, the Bank has helped SPAC to focus attention not only on the need
to carry out GMP audits as a necessary step in the implementation of GMP in
the pharmaceutical industry, but also in the long term measures designed to
assist GOC in adopting GMP throughout the industry. The Bank can act as a
catalyst in this process by supporting improvements at a provincial quality
control center and a pilot program for upgrading a limited number of pharma-
ceutical factories to GMP levels. The audits which were carried out at these
factories, and which recommended the steps to be implemented to reach GMP
levels, have already received UNDP support, with the Bank as executing
agency.  The experience gained from these demonstration projects would be used
to prepare a second phase for the introduction of GMP and associated
activities on a much larger scale. Particular attention will be given to
progress in the ongoing effort to articulate Chinese GMP standards (based on
WHO and US FDA standards) and the strengthening of its inspectorate
apparatus.  Bank financing for the Zhong Yuan Pharmaceutical Factory (ZYPF),
the largest pharmaceuticals project undertaken in China, in addition to
providing China with the resources to acquire modern, GMP-based technology,
would lead to a material increase in exports from the pharmaceuticals sector
from an economically attractive project. Bank support would also strengthen
the enterprise's management and marketing capabilities and provide a model



- 14 -
which could be replicated elsewhere. In view of the fact that advanced
Chinese technology will be used for Vitamin C production and that China
already possesses considerable experience in marketing large quantities of
Vitamin C in export markets, the Chinese authorities prefer to execute the
project themselves rather than seeking a joint venture partner.
IV. PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
4.1       The Pharmaceuticals Project involves:  (a) the State Pharmaceuticals
Administration of China (SPAC); (b) Henan Provincial Pharmaceutical Bureau;
(c) Henan Provincial Pharmaceutical Quality Control Center; (d) Zhong Yuan
Pharmaceuticals Factory; and (e) two pharmaceuticaLs factories in which GMP
operations will be carried out: (i) Shanghai No. 4 Pharmaceuticals Factory;
and (ii) Xin Hua Pharmaceuticals Factory.
A. The State Pharmaceuticals Administration of China (SPAC)
4.2       Virtually all operations of the Chinese pharmaceutical industry--
including production of Western and traditional Chinese medicines, distri-
bution and a significant part of foreign trade--are the overall responsibility
of the State Pharmaceuticals Administration of China (SPAC) which was set up
in 1978. SPAC is a ministerial economic entity reporting to the State
Economic Commission, and is composed of a series of central bureaus (dealing
with Foreign Affairs Planning, Drug Quality Control, Construction, Labor, Per-
sonnel, Materials Research, Education, Finance, Pricing Policy and Enterprise
Management) and six companies which provide a comprehensive coverage of all
aspects of pharmaceutical operations. These companies are: (a) China
National Pharmaceutical Corporation; (b) China National Herbal Medicine
Corporation; (c) The China National Drug Corporation; (d) China National
Medical Equipment Corporation; (e) China National Corporation of Pharmaceuti-
cal Economic and Technical International Corporation; and (f) China National
Health Care Products Imports and Exports Corporation. In addition, SPAC
maintains educational and research institutes. In this Project, SPAC will
supervise the two pharmaceutical enterprises in their implementation of the
recommendations of the GMP audits which have been carried out on their
facilities.
B. Henan Provincial Pharmaceutical Bureau
4.3       The Henan Provincial Pharmaceutical Bureau is under the administra-
tive control of the Henan Provincial Government, but receives technical gui-
dance from SPAC. The Bureau is ultimately responsible for all the pharmaceu-
tical operations in Henan Province. With recent organizational reforms, the
Bureau, like other provincial pharmaceutical bureaus, is shifting its focus to
such functions as preparation of long-term development plans, approval of
investments and production expansion, pricing of selected products, taxation
and finished product quality monitoring, while leaving the enterprises to play
a larger role in managing operations such as production, marketing and distri-
bution, pricing unregulated products, financial management of the enterprise
and primary quality control. The Henan Provincial Pharmaceutical Bureau will



- 15 -
act as conduit for the loan proceeds allocated to the component dealing with
the Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory.
C. Henan Provincial Pharmaceutical Quality Control Center
4.4       The Henan Provincial Pharmaceutical Quality Control Center, which is
currently under construction will form an arm of the Henan Provincial Pharma-
ceutical Bureau. The Quality Control Center will employ about 70 staff of
which 45 will be technicians and 11 will be employed in administration. The
Center will be divided into two major departments--a testing and chemicals
department (employing 22 staff in reagents preparation, fermentation
laboratory, instrumentation and analysis) and a biological department
(employing 23 staff in antibiotics testing, hygiene, activity analysis and an
animal center). The Center will be located in Zheng Zhou and will provide
quality control of products manufactured by all the pharmaceutical enterprises
operating in Henan Province, including the Zhong Yuan Pharmaceutical Factory,
a component of this Project. Advanced analytical equipment. required for
pharmaceutical quality control, will be financed by the Covernment under the
Project.
D. Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory
4.5       The Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory (ZYPF) is being set up
specifically to operate the facilities for the production of pharmaceutical
and modified starches, dextrose, sorbitol and Vitamin C at Zhong Yuan, a
suburb of the Municipality of Zheng Zhou in Henan Province. These facilities
form the principal component of the Project. The ZYPF Preparation Office
(ZYPF PO) has been formally established by the Zheng Zhou Municipal Staffing
Commission, and senior officials of the enterprise have already been
appointed. The feasibility study for ZYPF has been approved by the State
Planning Commission (SPC). During negotiations, assurances have been obtained
from Henan Province tha... ZYPF will be formally established not later than
December 30, 1990, in a form and with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank. Until that date, the Province will act on behalf of
ZYPF and will enter into a transfer and operations agreement with ZYPF when
the latter is established. The Municipality of Zheng Zhou will then issue an
approval for the factory to trade and operate its facilities, and the State
Industrial and Commercial Administration will register the enterprise. When
the production facilities are commissioned, the Ministry of Public Health
(MOPH) will be responsible for granting a license to produce and market phar-
maceuticals. During negotiations, assurances have been obtained from Henan
Province that it will (a) enter into a transfer and operations agreement with
ZYPF upon its establishment, on terms and conditions agreed between the Bank
and Henan Province; and (b) implement the ZYPF component through ZYPF PO until
ZYPF's establishment, including provision by Henan Province of infrastructure,
raw materials and utilities.
4.6       About 2,200 persons will be employed by the enterprise, which is
expected to begin commercial operations early in 1992.



- 16 -
E. Shanghai No. 4 Pharmaceuticals Factory
4.7       The Shanghai No. 4 Pharmaceuticals Factory is the largest producer
of antibiotics in the Shanghai area. The factory was originally set up in
1865; it employs 2,300 people of whom 200 are university graduates. The plant
produces 600 tons per annum of antibiotics, including Streptomycin, Genta-
mycin, Kanamycin, Erythromycin and Chloramphenicol, as well as several semi-
synthetics such as Ampicillin, Phenobarbitone, and Diphenhydramine.
Formulation products are mainly in the form of 160 million dry ampoules per
annum. Total annual turnover in Y 100 million (US$27 million) of which
Y 25 million (US$6.7 million) is exported.
F. Xin Hua Pharmaceuticals Factory
4.8       The Xin Hua Pharmaceuticals Factory is located in Zibo City in
Shandong Province. The plant is 30 years old and employs 4,000 persons. Some
20 pharmaceutical intermediates and active substances are produced (including
acetic acid, acetyl salicylic acid, caffeine, ibuprofen, and pipemedic acid)
with an annual output of 20,000 tons. In addition, 60 formulated products
(3 billion tablets and 200 million ampoules) are manufactured; annual output
is about 5,000 tons.



- 17 -
V. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
5.1       The Project is designed to assist China in reaching its objectives
in the pharmaceutical subsector of expanding pharmaceutical production using
modern technologies, improving the quality of pharmaceutical products and
their manufacturing practice, modifying the supply pattern of drugs to match
changing demand and increasing the potential for export from the subsector.
The specific objectives of the Project are to: (a) establish large scale
production of vitamin C and other products; (b) improve pharmaceutical product
quality control in Henan Province; (c) implement viable procedures and
necessary investments for the adoption of 'Good Pharmaceutical Manufacturing
Practice' (GMP) in two demonstration factories; and (d) improve the quality of
training in plant operation, maintenance, marketing, management and GMP in the
pharmaceutical industry.
5.2       In order to achieve the Project objectives, the Project consists of
the following components: (a) the Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory
Component; (b) the Henan Province Quality Control Center Component; and (c)
the Good Manufacturing Practices Component. Both the Zhong Yuan
Pharmaceuticals Factory and the GMP component have training subcomponents.
B.  The Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory Component 5/
5.3       The Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory (ZYPF), to be situated at
Zhong Yuan, (a suburb of the city of Zheng Zhou, close to the Yellow River in
the Province of Henan; Map IBRD 20272), will be the largest pharmaceutical
factory so far established in China. Using corn as a feedstock the plant will
have the capability to produce the quantities of products given in the table
below:
5/   Full details of this component are given in Project File:  Reference B.



- 18 -
Table 5.1: ZHONG YUAN PHARMACEUTICALS FACTORY PRODUCTION /a
Product                                      Net capacitie
(tpa)
Main Products:
Common Starch                                          31,747
Modified Starch                                        10,000
Dextrose Monohydrate                                   15,000
Dextrose Anhydrous                                     10,000
Sorbitol (50% solution)                                20,448
Vitamin C                                               5,000
By-Products
Gluten Meal                                             7,494
Gluten Feed                                            39,846
Refined Corn Oil                                        3,846
Hydrol (55% solution)                                  10,658
Sodium Sulfate                                          2,767
/a   See Table 8.1 for revenue contributions uf individual
products.
The technology for all the processes will be imported except for the produc-
tion of vitamin C from sorbitol, where an original commercially proven Chinese
two stage fermentation process will be used The starches will be used as
fermentation substrates and as excipients -  in tablet manufacture; dextrose
will be used as a sugar supplement in pharmaceutical formulations including
infusion solutions; sorbitol will be used as an emulsifier additive in food
and tuothpaste; Vitamin C, besides its dietary and nutritional use, is a
pharmaceutical intermediate. Part of the Project's output will go to meet
shortages in the domestic market, while part will be exported.
5.4       The plant will comprise, besides the process units, all facilities
for the provision of the necessary utilities (steam, treated water, compressed
air, nitrogen etc.), disposal of wastes in an environmentally acceptable
manner, reception and storage of corn, and storage and dispatch of the
finished products.  Training of operational, maintenance and marketing staff
is included in this component.
6/   Excipients are used not only as fillers and binders, but also contribute
to the rate of release of the drug and the body's assimilation of it.
Substrates are the media in which microorganisms perform the fermentation
process.



- 19 -
5.5       The plant will require approximately 154,000 tpa of corn--the
basic raw material for the project--which will be supplied under a long term
contract with the Henan Provincial Food Administration. Henan Province is a
major producer of corn, with a normal annual production in excess of 6.0 mil-
lion tons; animal feed is a major end-use and some corn is exported. Approxi-
mately 2/3 of the corn will be delivered by trucks from the area around Zheng
Zhou with the remainder delivered by rail from more distant parts of Henan
Province. To handle the high volume of corn deliveries, a rail siding will be
constructed, as part of this Project, from the nearby (2.5 kms) main line to
the plant site and the existing road to the site is to be widened. The
unloading facilities will be- designed to handle the average daily input in one
8 hour shift so that adequate extra unloading capacity is available by working
extra shifts. The major part of the output from the factory is planned to be
transported by rail. The city of Zheng Zhou is one of the most important rail
communication centers in China with freight sec.t ,s to all provinces.
5.6        The first major step in the producc-ion  cocess is the wet milling
of corn kernels to liberate the starch.  Part c;  i e purified starch is then
used as the feedstock to the first of a chain of chemical and fermentation
processes that produce compounds (dextrose and sorbitol) that are important
both as final products and as intermediates; dextrose (produced from starch)
is the intermediate for sorbitol production, and sorbitol is the intermediate
for vitamin C production. A block flow diagram and detailed description of
the process units is given in Annex 4. The major by-products--gluten feed,
gluten meal and corn oil--are produced as part of the first process stage, the
corn wet milling/starch separation process. All of the processes will use
commercially proven technology. The one unusual feature of the project is the
integration from starch through to vitamin C; most other companies outside
China specialize either in the production of starch (large agribusinesses), or
the processing of bought in starch (pharmaceutical companies); this
integration however does not pose any unusual problems.
5.7       The Project will rely extensively on imported technology for the
major process units. However, for the Vitamin C production process an
original Chinese process will be used. Two commercial scale plants (capaci-
ties of 500 and 600 tpa) using this technology have been operating satisfac-
torily for over 5 years and a third plant of 1,000 tpa, located at Shenyang
City, Liaoning Province, is due to start production in 1988. The novel part
of the Chinese process is the substitution of a fermentation step for a syn-
thesis stage in the overall process; other stages use essentially conventional
technology. The technology allows sigaificant savings in capital, raw
material and energy costs compared with other commercial processes. Part of
this process has been licensed to a transnational pharmaceutical company.
Although the Project represents a scale-up in size of about eight times the
capacity currently in overation, this is not expected to pose design problems.
C. Henan Provincial Pharmaceutical Quality Control Center Component
5.8       The Henan Provincial Pharmaceutical Bureau is responsible for the
management of pharmaceutical operations in Henan Province. With the aim of
raising pharmaceutical quality, ensuring the safety of drugs consumed by the



- 20 -
Chinese populace, and developing the potential for the export of pharmaceut-
icals produced in China, the Bureau has undertaken the construction of a
Quality Control Center, to be located in Zheng Zhou in Henan Province. Two
such centers have been established in other provinces and a further five are
under implementation. The center will include a chemical analysis laboratory,
a pharmacokinetics laboratory, a biochemical laboratory, and an animal
breeding center. This component of the project will include the procurement
of modern analytical equipment, unavailable in China, including ultraviolet
grading spectrophotometers, infrared spectro,kotometers, high efficiency
liquid phase chromatographs, vapor phase chromatographs, and magnetic
resonators, all of which are required for analyzing pharmaceuticals quality to
the high degree of accuracy required by the industry today.
D. Good Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Practice (GMP) Component
5.9       This component will include the implementation of recommendations
arising from audits carried out (by international consultants financed by UNDP
with the Bank as executing agency) to identify measures required to upgrade
operations to GMP standards in two pharmaceutical enterprises: the Shanghai
No. 4 Pharmaceuticals Factory and the Shandong Xin Hua Pharmaceuticals Factory
(Map TBRD 20271). The introduction of GMP into these enterprises forms one of
the pilot stages of a program adopted by the Chinese authorities to initiate
GMP throughout the pharmaceutical industry in China--a program estimated to be
completed by the year 2000. The GMP standards aimed at for these two plants
are those acceptable to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). This
component of the Project will include capital investments for new buildings,
provision of new technologies where appropriate, analytical and control
equipment, monitoring and control systems, as well as training of managerial
and operations staff in GMP practices and procedures. The specific invest-
ments being supported by the component are described below (full details are
given in Project File: Reference C).
5.10      Xin Hua Pharmaceutical Factory.  At the Xin Hua Pharmaceutical
Factory, a new building of 5,500 m' area for formulation operations will be
erected to house modern equipment for the production of 3 billion tablets per
annum. An air conditioned storage facility (4,100 m2) will also be erected
and will be used for the palletized storage of raw materials, packing
materials and finished products, with separate areas for quarantine, receipt,
delivery and sampling. Since none of the existing equipment meets GMP
standards, new equipment must be installed. The tablet production equipment
will include materials handling equipment and equipment for raw material
sifting and dispensing, granulation, compression, coating and packaging. An
in-process and pilot plant laboratory will also be installed.



- 21 -
5.11      The standards of production control systems used in a pharmaceutical
plant are at least as important as the standard of buildings and equipment
installed in attaining international CMP standards. The Materials Management,
Maintenance, Quality Control and Production Administration systems will there-
fore be reviewed and upgraded to international CMP requirements with the
assistance of international consultants experienced in this field. Training
of appropriate personnel in GMP will also be included as part of this
component (Annex 8).
5.12      Shanghai No. 4 Pharmaceutical Factor . At the Shanghai No. 4
Pharmaceutical Factory, a new five story building of 4,200 m2 will be erected
for formulation operations and will house equipment fol the production of
vials and capsules; it will include an area of 2,100 m for storage and
utilities supply. Since none of the existing formulation equipment meets GMP
standards, new equipment must be installed to produce 120 million vials per
annum and 75 million capsules per annum. Equipment installed for vial
production will include vial washers, tunnel ovens, rotary tables, filling and
capping machines, and equipment for sterilizing, labelling and packaging. For
capsule production, granulation, capsule filling and blister pack equipment
will be installed. An in-process laboratory, racks, pallets and material
handling equipment will also be provided. A new Quality Control Laboratory
will also be constructed in a new building.
5.13      The production control systems (Materials Management, Maintenance,
Quality Control and Production Administration) will be reviewed and upgraded
to international CMP requirements with the assistance of international
consultants experienced in this field. Training of appropriate personnel in
CMP will also be included as part of this component (Annex 8).
5.14      SPAC Training Program.  In parallel with the project, though funded
from other sources, an associated training program will be undertaken by
SPAC. This program will include, inter alia, training for staff from SPAC,
design institutes, and enterprises in the techniques and methodology of GMP.
This training will be aimed at bringing the staff trained to a high enough
standard in GMP so that they are able to disseminate effectively GMP practices
(Annex 7). This training program forms part of SPAC's overall GMP program,
the implementation of which will be monitored by the Bank (para. 3.17).



- 22 -
VI. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
A. Engineering Arrangements
6.1       Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory.  Of the five major processes in
the factory, only one--vitamin C production--will be based on local technol-
ogy. All the other processes will use imported technology. To a considerable
extent the selection of the technology will be part of the procurement process
of the major equipment items (e.g. common starch technology will be part of
the contract for major equipment supply for the wet corn milling process--the
major initial step in the overall production scheme). Such equipment contracts
will include the provision of basic and detailed engineering design and the
specification of equipment and materials to be provided from other suppli-
ers. To coordinate and interface between the foreign technology suppliers,
the Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory has entered into an agreement with the
Shanghai Pharmaceutical Industry Design Institute. The institute will also be
responsible for the basic and detailed design of the materials handling
systems, civil works, utilities (steam, power, water, etc.), waste treatment
systems, and for the basic and detailed design of the vitamin C production
unit.
6.2       Implementation through the procurement of complete production unit
packages will undoubtedly lead to a more efficient and less time consuming
implementation activity, and will significantly minimize the risks of schedule
and cost overruns. However, it depends for its success on equipment and
material import licenses being expeditiously granted by the Chinese
authorities. During negotiations, assurances have been obtained from GOC that
import licenses for all equipment and materials required for the project would
be granted on a timely basis.
6.3       The Shanghai Pharmaceutical Design Institute, which is administered
by SPAC, moved to Shanghai in 1957; it has worked on numerous chemical and
pharmaceutical projects. The Institute has provided design services on four
vitamin C projects, including the latest, the 1000 tpa project of the North
East Pharmaceuticals Factory (situated at Shenyang City, Liaoning Province)
due to commence start-up by end 1988. The Institute has a staff of 946 of
which 793 are technical staff. The Institute is well qualified to provide the
necessary design services for the Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory.
6.4       GMP Component.  The engineering for the GMP component will be
carried out by the Shanghai Pharmaceutical Design Institute. By joint agree-
ment, Xin Hua Pharmaceuticals Factory and Shanghai No. 4 Pharmaceuticals
Factory will share the foreign exchange costs of consultants, who will assist
in the preparation of conceptual and basic designs and provide advice on
construction and erection, as well as advising on the design and implementa-
tion of new systems for materials management, maintenance, quality control and
production administration at the two plants. Both GMP companies have
established implementation organizations for expansion projects and have
experienced staff who will undertake the implementation of the GMP projects.



- 23 -
B. Project Management
6.5            Project Organization. The Henan Provincial Pharmaceutical
Bureau (para. 4.3) will have overall responsibility for project implementation
for the Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory and the Henan Provincial
Pharmaceutical Quality Control Center (QCC). For the GMP component SPAC will
have overall responsibility for project implementation. The GMP and QCC
components are well within the capabilities of the existing managements of the
three enterprises and QCC respectively. The two CMP companies have existing
training organizations which, strengthened by international consultants
provided under the project, will implement the training programs (Annexes 7
and 8). During negotiations, assurances have been obtained from GOC that it
would cause the CMP component to be implemented under Subsidiary Loan and
Project Agreements, on terms and conditions agreed with the Bank, to be
entered into with the companies through Shandong Province and Shanghai
Municipality respectively.
6.6       For the Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory, the Zhong Yuan
Pharmaceutical Factory Preparation Office has the primary responsibility for
project implementation. Since the project involves the establishment of a new
enterprise and construction of a 'green field' factory, the establishment of
an effective project implementation organization and the later build-up of the
necessary operating organization are important prerequisites for the success
of the project. The implementation organization of the Preparation Office is
detailed in Annex 5. The implementation group's responsibilities will include
administration of the engineering design contract with the Shanghai
Pharmaceutical Industry Design Institute, international procurement (assisted
by the International Tendering Company (ITC)), local procurement, award and
administration of the civil works contract, award and administration of the
installation and erection contract, and cost and schedule control. Altogether
the implementation group is expected to total some 400 staff of which over 200
are already in position. The staff are being recruited from all over China,
with SPAC having provided assistance to identify well qualified, experienced
staff for the key positions. All key qualified staff have been recruited and
no difficulties are anticipated in recruiting the remaining personnel
required. The implementation arrangements are satisfactory to the Bank.
C. Implementation Schedule and Status
6.7       The preliminary overall project schedules are given in Annex 6.  For
the Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory, and the two enterprises comprising the
GMP component, mechanical completion is planned for 38 months after the
project zero date of June 1988, with commissioning expected to take a further
three months before the start of production. These schedules are considered
realistic in view of the extensive preparation work that has already been
accomplished. During negotiations, assurances have been obtained from:
(a) Henan Province that it will ensure that ZYPF PO will, after major process
contracts are let (scheduled for November 30, 1988), submit to the Bank a
detailed implementation schedule, and (b) from GOC that it will cause the GMP
companies, on completion of the basic design work (scheduled for June 30,
1989), to submit to the Bank detailed implementation schedules. The Henan
Provincial QCC is expected to be completed by mid-1989.



- 24 -
6.8       Extensive preparation work has been carried out by ZYPF PO. The
initial feasibility study was carried out by the Shanghai Pharmaceutical
Industry Design Institute in May 1985 and covered in detail the engineering
design aspects of the project. In consultation with the Bank, the feasibility
study was then reviewed in depth by international consultants, with particular
attention paid to the engineering design aspects (Project File: Reference
B). In addition to recruitment of staff for the project group, ZYPF PO has
entered into the following agreements for the provision of infrastructure and
the supply of utilities and raw materials to the factory:
(a) with the Zheng Zhou Municipality for the use of the site for the
factory and township;
(b) with the Henan Province Negotiated Price Grain Stuff Corporation for
the supply of 100,000 tpy of the corn required for the project;
(c) with the Zheng Zhou Negotiated Price Grain Stuff Corporation for the
supply of 50,000 tpy of the corn required for the project;
(d) with the Henan United Transport Company for road delivery of about
two thirds of the corn required for the project;
(e) with the Zheng Zhou Railway Administration Bureau for the
construction of the rail spur to the plant site;
(f) with the Zheng Zhou Municipal Social Development Planning Committee
and with Zheng Zhou Thermal Power Plant for the supply of low
pressure steam to the project;
(g) with the Zheng Zhou Power Supply Administration for the power supply
plan for the electric power requirements of the project;
(h) with the Zheng Zhou Utilities Administration for the Project water
supply plan, with the Zheng Zhou Municipal Planned Water Supply and
Water Saving Office for the water quantities required by the
Project, and with the Zheng Zhou Water Supply and Water Saving
Office for the construction of pumping facilities at the Xi Liu
Lake, for the construction of new deep wells and the use of nine
existing wells; and
(i) with Zheng Zhou Municipal Development Program and Management Bureau
for the discharge of treated waste water from the Project.
These agreements have been reviewed and are satisfactory to the Bank.
6.9       The Henan Provincial Pharmaceutical Quality Control Center (QCC)
will be constructed under the control of Henan Provincial Pharmaceutical
Bureau. Design work is complete and civil work has commenced on the QCC.
6.10      The consultants who carried out the GMP audits prepared
implementation schedules, capital cost estimates and scope of work to be
carried out in implementation of the audit recommendations. These estimates



- 25 -
have been confirmed by the managements of the enterprises concerned and the
Shanghai Pharmaceutical Design Institute. (Project File: Reference C). Con-
sultants for the GMP implementation are to be appointed by December 31, 1988
(Annex 8).
D. Employment and Training
6.11      The Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory is expected to employ about
3,000 people during construction and about 2,000 people on a permanent basis
at full operation. Of the staff recruited for the implementation phase,
approximately 70X are expected to transfer to key positions in the operational
organization at the end of the implementation phase.  Assurances have been
obtained from Henan Province that it will furnish to the Bank for comment by
June 30,1989 a recruitment and training program for ZYPF staff, including a
marketing organization plan and will cause marketing staff to be appointed one
year prior to start up and an agreed training program to be carried out.
Henan Province Quality Control Center will employ a staff of 70. The two
enterprises participating in the GMP component will have no significant
increases in staff as a result of the implementation of this component.
6.12      General training requirements and outline programs (including
overseas training requirements) have been prepared (a) for operations,
maintenance, GMP and marketing personnel at ZYPF and (b) for management,
operating and maintenance personnel and quality control staff at Xin Hua and
Shanghai No. 4 Pharmaceuticals Factories in GMP (Annex 7). During
negotiations, assurances have been obtained from GOC that it would cause the
GMP companies to provide training programs to the Bank for comment by June 30,
1989 and to carry out the agreed training programs thereafter.
6.13      In addition to the enterprise training program, SPAC is undertaking
an associated training program which will be financed partly from the First
Technical Cooperation Credit (1412-CHA) and partly from other sources. The
purpose of this program is to acquaint senior management in SPAC, the Design
Institutes and enterprises with: (a) the principles and practice of CMP and
(b) modern management methods as applied in. the pharmaceutical industry. It
is envisaged that a series of courses will be held annually and would
include: (a) training in the theoretical aspects of GMP standards and
regulations with the aim of training teachers and advisors, and (b) training
in the application of computers in management and information systems
(including emphasis on the computer systems used in the administration of
GMP), in general management methods and techniques (including organization
structures, systems and methods), and in financial control and accounting
methods (Annex 7). The China National Pharmaceutical Corporation (which
forms part of SPAC) is organizing the recruitment and training of inspectors
for ensuring that pharmaceutical enterprises are initiating and maintaining
GMP.



- 26 -
E. Environmental Aspects
6.14      The ZYPF component will be designed to meet environmental standards
and conditions required by the State, Henan Province and the Municipality of
Zheng Zhou. Because of the large size of the project, an Environmental Impact
Analysis has been prepared by the Project authorities and submitted to, and
approved by, the State Planning Commission. The Municipality of Zheng Zhou
has given its approval for the waste water discharges.
6.15      In addition to meeting the prevailing legal requirements, the
following aspects of plant safety and environmental standards were agreed
upon with ZYPF PO:
(a) waste water treatability studies would be carried out prior to the
design of the waste water treatment system;
(b) plant design would include complete sensor/alarm system for all
hazardous materials, regular monitoring of process waste waters and
sludges for nickel and other heavy metals, and complete monitoring
and analysis capability for overall air and water pollution control;
and
(c) plant safety will be addressed by the preparation of a safety manual
for hazardous materials and emergency measures, inclusion of a plant
safety specialist in the overall management, and special training
for workers involved with hazardous materials.
6.16      During negotiations, assurances have been obtained from Henan
Province that it will ensure that the ZYPF PO will construct and that ZYPF
will operate the facilities in accordance with environmental standards satis-
factory to the Bank, and that ZYPF PO will prepare the plant safety manual for
hazardous materials and emergency procedures at least one year prior to
startup.



- 27 -
VII. CAPITAL COSTS, FINANCINC PLAN AND PROCUREMENT
A. Capital Cost Estimates
7.1       The total financing required for the Project, including interest
during construction and permanent working capital, is estimated at
US$213.0 million, of which US$130.0 or 61X is in foreign exchange. The
capital cost estimates are detailed in Annex 9 and'summarized in Table 7.1.
Table 7.1: CAPITAL COST SUMMARY
Z of
Y million              USS million         base cost      X
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  roreign  TotaT  estimate   foreign
ZYPF Comronent
Base cost estimate /a           187.1   301.0   488.1   50.3    80.9   131.2    100.0         61.7
Physical contingency/b           11.5    30.1    41.6    3.1       8.1    11.2        8.5     72.4
Price contingency /c             24.0    81.7   105.7    2.6       9.2    11.8        9.0     78.1
Installed Cost /d            222.6   412.8   635.4   56.0    98.2   154.2    117.5         63.7
Interest during construction   17.7    81.6    99.3    4.2    19.3    23.5           17.8     82.0
Working capital                  72.5       -     72.5   16.5       -      16.5      12.6       -
Total for ZYPF                312.8   494.4   807.2   76.7   117.5   194.2    147.9         60.5
Corn onent
ase cost estimate /a             17.1    30.5    47.6    4.6       8.2    12.8    100.0       63.8
Physical contingency/b            1.7      3.0     4.7    0.5      0.8      1.3      10.0     63.8
Price contingency /c              4.8      9.7    14.5    0.4      0.9      1.3      10.3     70.5
Installed Cost /d              23.6    43.2    66.8    5.5       9.9    15.4    120.3       64.4
Interest during construction         -       7.0     7.0      -       1.6     1.6      12.8    100.0
Working capital                     3.5       -      3.5    0.8        -      0.8       6.3        -
Total for CMP                  27.1    50.2    77.3    6.3    11.5    17.8    139.4         64.7
Henan Quality Control Component    -         4.3     4.3      -       1.0     1.0    100.0    100.0
Total Financing Required    339.9   548.9   888.8   83.0   130.0   213.0    146.8           61.0
/a   January 1988 prices.
7b   Physical contingencies have been taken as 10X of base cost (excluding value of land and
utilities already in place).
/c   Total price contingencies represent 10.52 of total base cost for ZYPP and the GMP
companies (excluding value of land and utilities already in place).
/d   Total installed cost excludes import duties which are not levied but includes 3Z sales
tax on locally procured equipment and materials.



- 28 -
7.2       The base cost estimates for the ZYPF component, expressed in January
1988 prices, have been derived frem estimates made by the project authorities
and SPAC in collaboration with the Shanghai Design Institute, and been
verified by a firm of international engineering consultants (see Project file
Reference B). For foreign equipment, the estimates include insurance and
freight to the plant site. For the GMP component, the base cost estimates
were made by a firm of international consultants in collaboration with the
project authorities and Shanghai Design Institute (see Project File, Reference
C). Taxes and duties would not be applied to imported equipment. A 3Z sales
tax on locally procured equipment and materials would be paid by Project
entities- For the ZYPF component, the engineering costs are included in the
package contracts and are estimated (excluding the cost of licences) at 15% of
the total package cost. Local engineering consultancy costs are based on 700
man-months at US$500 per man month (based on data provided by Shanghai Pharma-
ceutical Design Institute) including contingencies. Physical contingencies
are estimated at 10% of the base cost estimates except on the value of land
and utilities provided by Henan Province as its notional equity contribution
of US$19.5 million, representing the amount that would normally be paid by a
new enterprise. In calculating the base cost and physical contingencies, an
exchange rate of Y 3.72 per US$1 has been used. Price contingencies have been
calculated assuming a five-year implementation period, but with local currency
expenditures having higher disbursement rates in the early years of the
project than foreign exchange expenditures; international inflation rates of
3% for 1988-90 and 4% thereafter and domestic inflation rates of 8.0% in 1988,
7.0% in 1989, and 6.5% thereafter. In accordance with Bank guidelines,
purchasing power parity adjustments have been used to convert the dollar
equivalent costs of price contingencies, interest during construction and
working capital into their respective Yuan values. Assumptions regarding
working capital are detailed in Annex 12. Interest during construction, which
has been capitalized through to mid-1992, has been calculated on the basis of
the financing plan and the Bank's standard disbursement profile for Asian
industrial projects. Henan Province, which would be responsible for the
payment of interest during construction on behalf of ZYPF, has requested that
interest during construction be financed by the Bank loan. Given that this is
a greenfield project and will not generate any income until 1992, this request
is considered justified.
B. Financing Plan
7.3       The financing plan includes a proposed Bank loan of US$127.0 million
(97.7% of total foreign exchange required), which would meet 59.6% of total
financing. The remaining financing needs would be met mainly by domestic
loans (22.7%), and the notional equity contribution: (a) from the province in
terms of the value of land and utilities provided by it (9.1%) and (b) from
companies own resources (8.1%) amounting in total to 17.2%. It is expected
that financing for the Henan Provincial Pharmaceutical Quality Control Center
will be provided from the Second Technical Cooperation Credit (TCCII) (Credit
No. 1664-CHA).  The proposed financing plan is summarized in Table 7.2.



- 29 -
Table 7.2: FINANCING PLAN
Y million                 US$ million          Z of US$
Component/source  Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total    total
ZYPF
IBRD loan           -     494.4    494.4       -      117.5    117.5      55.2
Domestic loan   195.8        -      195.8    48.3        -      48.3      22.7
Equity (Prov-
ince)          72.6        -      72.6    19.5        -       19.5       9.1
Internal cash    44.4        -      44.4      8.9        -       8.9       4.2
Subtotal     312.8    494.4    807.2    76.7    117.5    194.2         91.2
GMP
IBRD loan           -      39.2     39.2       -        9.5      9.5       4.5
Internal cash    27.1      11.0      38.1     6.3       2.0      8.3       3.9
Subtotal       27.1      50.2     77.3      6.3      11.5     17.8       8.3
QCC
Government          -       4.3       4.3      -        1.0      1.0       0.5
Total Project
IBRD loan          -      533.6    533.C       -      127.0    127.0      59.6
Domestic loan   195.8        -      195.8    48.3        -      48.3      22.7
Equity           72.6        -       72.6    19.5        -      19.5       9.1
Internal cash    71.5      11.0     82.5    15.2        2.0     17.2       8.1
Government (QCC)   -        4.3       4.3      -        1.0      1.0       0.5
Total Finan-
cing required   339.9    548.9    888.8    83.0    130.0    213.0    100.0
7.4       The proposed Bank loan of US$127.0 million equivalent will be made
to the People's Republic of China (GOC) at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate for a period of 20 years, including five years' grace and a
commitment fee of 0.75%. GOC will onlend to Henan Province, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, US$117.5 million equivalent. During
negotiations, assurances have been obtained from Henan Province that it will
relend US$117.5 million equivalent to ZYPF at 105% of the Bank's variable
interest rate with a commitment fee of 0.75% and a 15-year repayment period
including five years of grace. During negotiations, assurances have been
obtained from GOC that, under Subsidiary Loan and Project Implementation
agreements, it will onlend US$5.0 million equivalent to Xin Hua Pharmaceutical
Factory (through Shandong Province) and US$4.5 million equivalent to Shanghai
No. 4 Pharmaceutical Factory (through Shanghai Municipality) for the GMP
component at 105% of the Bank's variable interest rate for 15 years with a
five-year grace period (para 6.5). This rate is now, and is expected to



- 30 -
remain, positive in real terms. The commitment charges and foreign exchange
risk would be passed on to the beneficiaries. Signature of the Subsidiary
Loan and Project Implementation agreements and approval of the loan agreement
by China's State Council will be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
loan.
7.5       A domestic bank construction loan of Y 167.7 million (including
capitalized interest during construction) will be made to ZYPF at the pre-
vailing rate (currently 3.6Z p.a.) for similar investments, with a maturity of
eight years, including a grace period covering the construction phase through
startup. ZYPF will also obtain working capital financing of Y 28.1 million at
the prevailing short term rates (currently 9.62 p.a.). ZYPF will only carry
forward such short term debt on a year-to-year basis to supplement its
internal cash requirements during the start-up phase. No commitment fee is
charged on these loans.  ZYPF's internal cash generation will finance
Y 43.9 million of total project cost, mainly representing a part of the
incremental working capital at start up. The long term loans (i.e., both the
World Bank loan and the domestic construction loan) would capitalize interest
during construction though start up (expected in mid-1992). ZYPF's cash
generation in the second half of 1992 would cover its debt service needs for
that period.
7.6       The GMP companies would not require any additional borrowings to
cover the financing plan for their respective components. Their internal cash
generation would be ample to cover the required Y 38.1 million (including
foreign currency needs of Y 11.0 million (US$2.0 million)) of their project
cost.



- 31 -
C. Procurement
7.7       The procurement arrangements for the Project are summarized below:
Table 7.3: PROPOSED FROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement Method                Total
Project element                   ICB        LCB       Other        N.A.      cost
… --------------- (US$ million) ----------------
Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Facto
Equipment and Materials          6o8.6       11.2       23.4          -       103.2
(68.6)    (-)       (20.0)         -       (88.6)
Licenses, EnRineering and            7.2       -         2.2          -         9.4
Consultants /a                      (7.2)      -        (0.7)         -        (7.9)
Civil Work aiH  Erection              -      16.0         -           -        16.0
Project Management and              0.8        -         0.2         5.0        6.0
Commissioning /a                    (0.8)      -        (0.2)       (-)        (1.0)
Training /a                         0.4        -         0.5          -         0.9
(0.4)      -        (0.3)         -        (0.7)
Working Capital                       -        -          -         16.5       16.5
_         _                   (-)        (-)
Land and utilities                    -        -          -         19.5       19.5
_         _                   (-)        (-)
Subtotal                      77.0      27.2       26.3       41.0      171.5
(777u)   tr-        (OM)         tT-       T9"T
GMP Com anies
Equipm3et and Materials             5.5       1.1        2.6          -         9.2
(5.5)    (-)        (2.3)         -        (7.8)
Engineering and Consultants           -        -         0.9          -         0.9
-        -        (0.7)         -        (0.7)
Civil Works and Erection            0.5       2.6        1.5          -         4.6
(0.5)    (-)        (-)           -        (0.5)
Training                              -        -         0.7          -         0.7
-        -        (0.5)         -        (0.5)
Subtotal                       6.0       3.7        5.7          -       15.4
(7f)      ET        (n)           =-
Quality Control Center
quipment and Materials              -         -         1.0          -         1.0
TOTAL PROJECT                 83.0      30.9       33.0       41.0      187.9
MM;)    P-71        (77)         C-J      (TU.)
Note:     Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank loan. Amounts do not include interest during construction.
Incremental working capital for GMP companies is not shown.
/a Major process units to be procured on a package basis through ICB will,
in addition to supply of equipment and materials, include provision of
engineering, licenses, proJect management and training. The estimated
value of such services to be included in these package contracts is shown
as procured under ICB.



- 32 -
7.8       Package units, equipment and materials with a total value of
US$83 million equivalent will be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines. Exceptions to ICB will be
made for: (a) equipment proprietary to the process design, with an estimated
value of US$8 million, to be procured by direct purchase; (b) items with an
estimated value of less than US$200,000 each to be procured under limited
international bidding procedures (LIB); and (c) off-the-shelf items with a
value of less than US$50,000 each to be procured by international shopping
from at least three qualified suppliers from at least three Bank member
countries. The aggregate of equipment contracts financed under the Bank loan
to be procured under LIB and international shopping procedures will not exceed
US$15 million equivalent. For the purposes of bid evaluation under ICB for
equipment contracts, qualified local suppliers will receive the lower of a
margin of preference of 15Z or the applicable duty for such goods for a
nonexempt importer. An integral provision of a number of the large package
contracts will be the inclusion of supervision of equipment erection on
site. Chinese companies are expected to supply about 10% by value of the
equipment and material contracts procured under ICB financed by the Bank
loan. Consultancy service contracts for engineering design assistance to the
GMP companies, and for the training component will be awarded in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Contracts let under LCB procedures will not be financed
under the loan. The procedures for awarding contracts for local equipment
supply and civil works and erection have been reviewed with SPAC and Zhong
Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory; they provide for choice in selection of
suppliers and contractors, particularly in ensuring that contracts are awarded
to enterprises that can perform to the required schedules. Contracts for
civil works and erection will be based on negotiated unit rates and will
include incentives and penalties for early and late completion,
respectively. Experience has shown that these procedures work satisfactorily
and allow for economic procurement.
7.9       All contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost over
US$500,000 and all contracts for engineering and consultancy services financed
under the loan will be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation, resulting in a coverage of about 70% of the total estimated
value of Bank-financed contracts. In addition, procurement of equipment and
materials will be through standardized bid documents based on the Bank's
Sample Bid Documents to be agreed with SPAC and ZYPF and the GMP companies
prior to the start of procurement. The preparation of these documents is
underway. The balance of contracts will be subject to selective post award
reviews. The International Tendering Company (ITC), an affiliate of the China
National Technical Import Corporation, will provide procurement services for
procurement of all Bank-financed goods and services. ITC has been involved
with procurement on Bank-financed projects since 1981 and is in consequence
familiar with Bank procedures and guidelines. A General Procurement Notice
for the project has been published; a Prequalification notice for major
process package suppliers for the ZYPF component has also been published. A
list of equipment to be procured under the loan is shown in Annex 11.
D. Allocation and Disbursement of Bank Loan
7.10      The proposed allocation of the Bank loan is summarized in the tables
below:



- 33 -
Table 7.4: BANK LOAN ALLOCATION
(US$ million equivalent)
ZYPF  GMP      Total       Disbursements
Equipment and materials          90.0   7.5        97.5       100% of foreign
(Including package                                            100% of local
contracts)                                                    expenditures ex-
factory) and 75%
of other local
expenditures
Consultants, overseas              0.5   0.8         1.3      100% of expendi
visits for procurement                                        tures
and training
Interest during                   19.3    -         19.3
construction
Unallocated                        7.7   1.2         8.9
Total                       117.5   9.5       127.0
7.11      The proposed Bank loan will cover: (a) 100% of foreign expenditures
for imported goods (including associated erection supervision included in
goods supply contracts), (b) 100X of local expenditures for goods (ex-factory)
and 75% of local expenditures for other items, (c) 100% of expenditures for
consultants, (d) 100% of the cost of overseas visits by local staff for
procurement and training, and consultants' costs for training, and (e)
interest incurred by Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory on the Bank loan up
until the expected start of commercial operations, (April 1, 1992). Disburse-
ments will be against full documentation except for training and overseas
visits by local staff for training and procurement. For contracts with a
value of less than US$200,000, disbursement would be against statements of
expenditures. Documents in support of statements of expenditure will be
retained by the project implementation entities and made available to the Bank
for review during Project supervision. To facilitate disbursements, a special
account of US$3.0 million will be established for the Project.



- 34 -
7.12      The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.  The
disbursement schedule for the Project is shown in Annex 10 and summarized in
Table 7.5. It accords with the Bank's standard profile for Industrial
Projects in the Asia Region. The loan closing date will be December 31, 1993.
Table 7.5:  SUMMARY ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(USs million equivalent)
Disbursement                    Cumulative
IBRD FY             FY               %         disbursements       % Cumulative
1989             10.2              8.0           10.2                   8.0
1990             34.6             27.3           44.8                  35.3
1991            44.5              35.0           89.3                  70.3
1992             32.0             25.2          121.3                  95.5
1993              5.7              4.5          127.0                 100.0



- 35 -
VIII.  PRODUCT KARKETS, PRICES AND MARKETING
8.1       The marketing plan for the Zhong Yuan Pharmaceutical Factory is
summarized in the following table.  Prices, while expressed in 1987 yuan, are
those expected to rule in the early 1990s when the plant becomei operational.
Table 8.1: ZHOKG YUAN PHARKACEUTICALS FACTORY SALES REVENUE
Revenue
Sales tpa        Prices             (Y million)
Home    Export   (1987 Ylton)   Home       Export  Total        Z
Main Products
Common starch          31,747                  998       31.68             31.68      8.14
Modified starch        10,000                1,900       19.00             19.00      4.88
Dextrose mono-
hydrate              15,000                1,900       28.50             28.50      7.32
Dextrose anhydrous    10,000                 2,850       28.50             28.50      7.32
Sorbitol               20,448                2,185       44.68             44.68    11.48
Vitamin C               2,000   3,000      42,000        84.00   126.00  210.00    53.95
Subtotal Main
Products                                            236.36   126.00  362.36    93.09
By-Products
Cluten meal                     7,494          600                  4.50    4.50      1.16
Gluten feed                    39,846          200                  7.97    7.97      2.05
Corn oil                        3,846        2,800                 10.76   10.76      2.77
Hydrol                 10,658                  300        3.20              3.20      0.82
Sodium sulfate          2,767                  160        0.44              0.44      0.11
Subtotal
By-Products                                           3.64    23.23   26.87      6.91
Total                                                 240.00   149.23  389.23   100.00
Of total revenues of Y 389 million (US$105 million) forecast in a year of full
operation, Y 362 million (93Z) would come from the main products and about
Y 27 million (7X) from by-products. Almost 542 would be derived from the
5,000 tpa of Vitamin C. While 602 of the Vitamin C and most of the by-
products would initially be exported, it is envisaged that as domestic markets
develop, the proportion of these products destined for the home market will
increase. A review of the markets for individual products follows. It is
based on market research (including field interviews with potential consumers
in both domestic and export markets) carried out by ZYPF PO and by
international consultants (Project File: Reference B).



- 36 -
A. Main Products
8.2       Common Starch is used in pharmaceuticals (as a tablet excipient),
and in the food processing, textile, paper and petroleum industries. Chinese
production (including the project output) is expected to exceed 1 million tpa
by the early 1990s when exports of about 50,000 tpa are projected. Total
domestic demand is expected to be in balance with net production at that
time. Henan Province (where the Project output commands a geographical and
transport advantage) is projected to require 54,000 tpa by 1990; another
20,000 tpa will be consumed elsewhere in China as a pharmaceutical excipient,
for which the project output, in view of its high quality, is expected to
enjoy a competitive advantage. A selling price of Y 998/ton (compared with a
(centrally fixed) current internal price of Y 1,050/ton) is projected.
8=3       Modified Starch is used in the paper, packaging, textile and petro-
leum industries. Modified starch is a new product in China, with small quan-
tities becoming available for the first time in 1986. Total national produc-
tion is expected to reach 50,000 tpa by the early 1990s, while demand is fore-
cast to be between 51,000-64,000 tpa. Some 5,000 tpa will be required in
Henan province. Modified starches are "tailor-made" to meet customers' speci-
fic requirements. It is planned to carry out market development in surround-
ing provinces in order to develop stable markets for the remainder of the
Project output. Since no firm prices for industrial scale quantities of
modified starch have yet been established in China, the forecast price is
derived from the current price of common starch in China, and the typical US
mark up for modified starches. A price of Y 1,900/ton has been assumed for
this product.
8.4       Anhydrous Dextrose and Monohydrate.  Anhydrous dextrose is used in
medical infusion solutions; monohydrate dextrose is used in the food
processing industry and as a fermentation medium in the manufacture of
antibiotics, vitamins, sorbitol, citric acid and other medical and food
products. Currently, there is only one small producer of anhydrous dextrose
in China and prices for large scale, high quality production are not yet
established. Anhydrous dextrose is preferred for infusion solutions because
of its greater purity, including the absence of potentially fever inducing
pyrogens. There is currently a large unsatisfied demand for all forms of
dextrose in China and as dextrose has become available, consumption has been
growing in the last few years at 26% p.a. Total national demand is expected
to reach 100,000 tpa by 1990, which will be equivalent to projected domestic
production, including Project output. The Project's output will be sold to
formulators to produce infusion solutions and to the food industry. The
prices forecast for the Project's output are Y 1,900/ton for the monohydrate
(compared to a current Chinese price (fixed centrally) of Y 2,000/ton) and
Y 2,850/ton for anhydrous dextrose (compared to a current world market price
of Y 3,813/ton). The anhydrous dextrose price is considered conservative but
its premium value over the monohydrate form can only be established as
industrial scale quantities become available in the domestic market.
8.5       Sorbitol (50% Solution) is used as a raw material in vitamin C
production, as an additive in toothpaste, as a tablet filler in pharmaceuti-
cals and as a surface active agent in the food processing and cosmetics



- 37 -
industries. Sorbitol demand in China today considerably exceeds domestic
supply and the product is currently imported. Demand is forecast to reach
between 61,000-66,000 tpa by the early 1990s; domestic production (including
the Project output) is expected to reach only 50,000 tpa. No problem is
therefore anticipated in marketing this product. A price of Y 2,185/ton is
projected for sorbitol, compared with the current Chinese price of
Y 2,300/ton.
8.6       Vitamin C.  It is planned that, initially, about 2,000 tpa of the
Project's vitamin C production will be marketed domestically but that as
domestic market development progresses, this figure will increase. Vitamin C
will be used in the Chinese pharmaceutical industry, as a dietary supplement
(particularly for China's increasing elderly population) and in the food
processing industry as a food additive in, e.g., baby foods and soft drink
bottling. Currently, Chinese consumption of vitamin C is constrained by
production availability and is at a level of about 2,000 tpa, equivalent to an
annual per capita consumption of about 0.002 Kg, compared to the U.S. per
capita consumption of about 0.075 Kg p.a. The Chinese authorities estimate
that total national demand will reach 11,000 tpa by the early 1990s; this
estimate has been confirmed by independent consultants. Planned production
(net of exports) is projected to reach only 5,000-9,000 tpa in this period;
initial domestic consumption of the proposed project's output will be con-
centrated on baby foods and a dietary supplement. Furthermore, in the
unlikely event that the export targets (para. 8.7) are not achieved, no
difficulty is envisaged in placing the additional output on the domestic
market. The proposed Project will use more advanced technology than other
Chinese vitamin C plants, and should consequently produce a product with lower
cost and higher and more consistent quality than competing plants. The
proposed project is therefore likely to be fully competitive not only with
domestically produced material but also in the export market.
8.7       In the international market, Vitamin C is used in pharmaceutical
tablets, infusion solutions, health foods and in fortified food products.
World demand for vitamin C lies between 45,000-50,000 tpa, and has been rising
at the rate of about 3Z p.a. (i.e., 1,500 tpa); the use of vitamin C in food
fortification has been growing at a rate exceeding 5X p.a. The USA represents
the largest single market (about 40X of world demand), half of which is
supplied by imports. Although nominal world capacity currently exceeds
consumption, virtually all the apparent excess capacity is versatile and is in
fact used for the production of other pharmaceuticals; consequently prices
have been steady or rising in the last few years. China currently exports
2,000 tpa of vitamin C in bulk form. Preliminary discussions with major
industrial users of vitamin C on the Pacific rim (where Chinese material
should enjoy a freight advantage over that of European and Eastern US
producers) indicate that, with an appropriate marketing effort, an export
market of 3,000 tpa of vitamin C can be established. Current international
prices range from US$11-14 per kilo, with US prices, because of heavier
competition in the Eastern USA, being about 10Z lower. Prices in dollar terms
are expected to continue to rise in the future to accommodate the fall in the
dollar against European and Japanese currencies, as well as increasing demand
for Vitamin C. A strong marketing policy will be pursued by ZYPF in order to
establish a firm place in the international market. For the purposes of



- 38 -
financial analysis, an ex-works price of Y 36,100 (US$9.7 per kilo) has been
assumed. This price is the current domestic price, (fixed centrally by the
Chinese authorities). A higher range of prices prevails f.o.b. China ports of
origin for material currently exported from China; when consistent quality is
established and regular supply is proven from ZYPF, higher prices should be
obtained from export sales of Vitamin C.
B. By-Products
8.8       Although there is a current shortage of protein in China, the
compound feeding industry is in its infancy. The relative lack of large scale
commercial feeding operations and an emphasis on the use of cut forage and
natural grazing for feed are largely responsible for the low usage of balanced
compound feeds; the lack of appropriate infrastructure is also inhibiting
consumption. At the same time, relatively high prices for corn gluten feed
and corn gluten meal can be obtained in export markets. It is therefore
assumed that initially these products will be exported, but that in the medium
term, the domestic compound feeding market will grow so that these products
will be sold on the domestic market.
8.9       Corn gluten feed is a 21% protein product used in the feeding of
pigs and cattle. The European Economic Community (EEC) provides a ready
market for this material and demand on the Pacific rim is also increasing; the
Project output represents less than 1% of current consumption in these
areas. Contact with potential buyers in the European market has already been
established. The current world market price of Y 372 (US$100) per ton
(equivalent to an ex-works price of Y 277 per ton) has been assumed in the
financial analysis.
8.10      Corn Gluten Meal is a high protein product used particularly by the
poultry industry. World consumption is approximately 1.6 million tpa. The
more industrialized Far Eastern nations are increasing their imports of this
product and a robust market is expected for the gluten meal produced by the
Project. The current world market price of Y 1,116/ton (US$300/ton), which is
equivalent to an ex-works price of Y 1,020/ton has been assumed in the
provincial analysis.
8.11      Corn Oil is a standard commodity on the world market and trades in
the highest range of vegetable oil prices. Because of the high quality of the
planned project output, no difficulties are anticipated in marketing this
material. A selling price of Y 2,800/ton has been projected for this product.
8.12      Hydrol.  A market for hydrol has already been secured with a
neighboring alcohol producer in Zhenghou. The price agreed is Y 300/ton.
8.13      Sodium Sulfate.  End-use markets for the Project's low-value sodium
sulfate by-product exist in Henan Province in the detergent, textile, wood
pulp and glassmaking industries. Total output should easily be absorbed by
these industries; a price of Y 160/ton has been assumed.



- 39 -
C. Marketing
8.14      While significant capacity increases in starch and derivative
products are projected in China in the next five years, domestic and export
markets for the Project's output can be established. It is important, how-
ever, that an adequate sales force be recruited and trained before the Project
begins commercial operations, since in the changing economic conditions in
China, much of the responsibility for establishing markets will rest
increasingly with the enterprises themselves. Although it is proposed to
utilize initially a foreign trade enterprise for export sales, an in-house
export marketing staff will be desirable. As part of the final detailed
recruitment and training program, a marketing organization plan for the Zhong
Yuan enterprise will be submitted to the Bank for review by June 1989, and at
least one year prior to plant start-up, the Zhong Yuan enterprise will
appoint, and arrange for the training of, marketing managers for the various
product groups (common starch, modified starch, dextrose, sorbitol, Vitamin C,
and by-products) in both domestic and export sales (para. 6.11).



- 40 -
IX. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.  Financial Projections
9.1       ZYPF.  The assumptions used in the financial analysis of the
proposed project are detailed in Annex 12. Base price assumptions are shown
in Table 8.1. Financial projections have been carried out in current yuan
through 1993 and in constant terms thereafter. Projected income, balance
sheet and funds flow statements for ZYPF are presented in Annexes 13, 14 and
15, respectively and summarized in Table 9.1.
Table 9.1: ZYDF SUMMARY OF PROJECTED FINANCIAL DATA
(million yuan)
1992    1993   1994    1995    1996    1997
(current)         ------(constant 1993)-------
Cross sales revenue                289.0    615.5  615.5   615.5   615.5   615.5
Net profit (after tax)              11.7    109.0  130.4   132.7   135.0   137.2
Internal cash generated             71.2    208.0  226.5   223.9   221.2   218.5
Profit before tax as Z of sales       19       44      44      44       44      44
Debt service coverage ratio          2.8      2.4    1.9      2.0      2.0     2.1
Current ratio                        1.1      1.4    2.0      2.6      3.2     3.8
Quick ratio                          0.4      0.6    1.2      1.7      2.0     2.8
Long-term debt/equity ratio        88/12    77/23  65/35   53/47   43/57   33/67
9.2       The projections indicate an increase in sales revenue from
Y 289.0 million in 1992 to Y 615.5 million in 1993 at full capacity operations
and constant thereafter. Profits before tax as a percentage of sales increase
from 19Z in 1992 to 44X in 1993-97. ZYPF is expected to generate sufficient
cash internally to service its debts and make necessary investments for main-
tenance and replacements. The annual foreign exchange earnings from Vitamin C
exports would exceed Y 161 million (US$43.3 million equivalent) at full
capacity operation. As imported raw materials account for only about
Y 4.9 million (US$1.3 million equivalent) a year, net foreign exchange
earnings would amply cover the annual debt service of the proposed Bank loan,
which at its peak in 1993 would total about US$20.84 million. It is expected
that ZYPF would retain up to 50Z of its foreign exchange earnings, either
individually or jointly with Henan Province, in order fully to service its
foreign debt. The guarantee of Henan Province would additionally provide a
cushion against possible fluctuations in export earnings, particularly in the
first years after startup. The current Chinese tax system allows enterprises
to deduct principal repayment of long-term loans from taxable income and this
improves the debt service capacity. At no time does the debt service coverage
ratio for ZYPF fall below 1.9, even if this provision were to be changed by
tax reform. The debt service coverage ratio would fall to 1.5 in the year of



- 41 -
highest debt service (i.e., 1994), and rise rapidly after that. In addition,
although the initial debt-to-equity ratio is 88:12 at plant startup, it
declines fairly rapidly to a healthy 65:35 within three years as a result of
significant accumulated retained earnings. The projections indicate that ZYPF
can comfortably sustain the proposed level of debt financing. This highly
leveraged capital structure is due to the current Chinese practice of debt
financing of all greenfield plants. As the project is guaranteed by Henan
Province, the high level of initial debt is acceptable. The other key
financial ratios (profitability, current, quick, debt-to-equity and debt
service coverage) are expected to be satisfactory throughout the life of the
Project.
9.3       GMP Companies.  Actual and projected financial data for the two GMP
companies are summarized in the table below.
Table 9.2: GMP COMPANIES - SUMMARIES OF ACTUAL AND
PROJECTED FINANCIAL DATA
(current yuan)
1984    1985    1986    1987    1989    1991   1993    1995
9h oshi No. 4 Plant
Sales                      106.1   104.7   106.6   110.0   125.9  144.2   165.1   189.0
Cost of goods sold          71.1    81.4    83.9    87.0    89.6  102.5   117.4   134.4
Net profit after tax        14.6     9.7      8.3    10.7      9.2   10.6    12.1    13.9
Net cash flow               16.5    11.8    10.6    13.2    11.7   13.1    14.6    16.4
Debt service coverage       27.0    19.7    17.8    22.0       4.7    5.7      3.8      4.6
lin Rua Plant
sales                      137.3   148.7   172.0   196.0   216.0  266.0   282.0   299.0
Cost of goods sold         104.9   121.0   139.8   159.2   165.9  203.9   215.9   228.8
Net profit after tax        11.7    10.7    12.6    13.5    18.7   22.6    24.7    26.3
Net cash flow               15.6    15.1    17.5    19.0    24.2   28.1    30.2    31.8
Debt service coverage       39.0    18.9    15.9    14.6    20.1   14.0        7.7      8.0
The net cash   neration at both plants is substantially higher than current
investment levels which average about Y 10 million a year. Actual and
projected debt service at both plants would reach a peak of Y 4.0 million in
1992 after completion of the project. Cash flow after taxes would cover the
peak requirement about four times for the Shanghai plant and about eight times
for the Xin Hua plant. Capitalization levels, as well as working capital
ratios, are expected to remain highly satisfactory. Neither plant has more
than a 20X debt to equity ratio, and working capital levels remain highly
satisfactory with a current ratio of at least 20.



- 42 -
B. Financial Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
9.4       The cost and benefit streams for the pretax financial rate of return
(FRR), expressed in constant 1987 yuan, are presented in Annex 16. The esti-
mated base case FRR for ZYPF is 25.0%. The results of a sensitivity analysis
on the FRR are shown in Table 9.3.
Table 9.3: ZYPF - SENSITIVITY TESTS ON
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
Base-case scenario                                26
Capital cost up 20%                                23
Sales revenue down 20%                             14
Variable cost up 20%                               19
Two-year delay in completion                       18
9.5       The sensitivity analysis shows that the rate of return remains
satisfactory over a wide range of ariation from the base-case assumptions.
The FRR is mainly sensitive to a significant delay in project implementation
and changes in sales revenue (i.e., output prices). However, even with a 20Z
decrease in Vitamin C prices, the project would generate sufficient foreign
exchange to meet its foreign currency obligations and would need to retain
only 60% of the foreign exchange earned. The break-even capacity for the
project, calculated on 1993 earnings before interest and tax, is estimated to
be 46%. A sensitivity test on the break-even point shows that for a wide
range of increases in variable operating costs coupled with a drop in output
prices, the plant continues to operate satisfactorily, covering cash opera-
tional costs and debt service at less than 75% of operating capacity. With
the plant operating at rated capacity, costs would have to increase by over
25% and prices fall by over 20% before the plant would be unable to cover its
internal cash needs.
C. Finuncial Covenants
9.6       During negotiations, assurances have been obtained from Henan
Province that ZYPF will: (a) maintain at all times a debt service coverage
ratio of at least 1.5, (b) attain not later than 1994 a long-term debt-to-
equity ratio of not more than 70:30; and (c) maintain at all times a current
ratio of at least 1.25. Given the conservative nature of the projections,
these targets are realistic and achievable by ZYPF under the proposed capital
structure. During negotiations, assurances have been obtained from GOC that
it would cause the GMP companies to (a) maintain at all times debt service
coverage ratios of at least 1.5, (b) maintain at all times long-term
debt/equity ratios of not more than 60:40, and (c) maintain current ratios of
at least 1.3.



- 43 -
D. Auditing and Reporting Requirements
9.7       ZYPF and the CMP companies will provide to the Bank the summary of
their project progress and procurement status quarterly. The companies'
accounting and auditing procedures are satisfactory to the Bank. All three
companies' annual financial statements and project accounts will be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. During negotiations assurances
have been obtained from Henan Province that: (a) it will provide audit and
project accounts for the QCC within six months of the close of the fiscal year
and (b) ZYPF PO will provide audited project accounts and ZYPF audited
financial statements and project accounts within six months of the close of
the fiscal year. During negotiations, assurances have been obtained from GOC
that it would cause the GMP companies to provide audited financial statements
within six months of the close of the fiscal year. ZYPF, QCC and the GMP
companies will prepare and submit to the Bank, within six months of project
cozpletion, a comprehensive Project Completion Report covering all related
activities during project implementation and initial operation and detailing
the Project's costs and benefits.



- 44 -
X. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
10.1      Economic rate of recurn (ERR) calculations were only made for the
ZYPF component. Although benefits from the lenan Provincial Quality Control
Center and CMP components are expected to be significant, particularly through
opening potential export markets to products of international quality
standards, the institutional development nature of these components precludes
an ERR calculation. Key assumptions used in the economic analysis of the
Project are described in Annex 17.
A. Economic Costs and Benefits
10.2      The economic prices of the project's outputs, namely pharmaceuticals
and starches, have been derived from their projected international prices.
The economic ex-factory prices have been calculated by adjusting the projected
international prices for ocean and inland freight. Product (sales) tax, which
varies between 5% and 15% of gross sales, has been taken into account in the
financial analysis. This accounts for the much higher economic value for the
project's output than its financial value.
10.3      Local-currency capital and production costs have been adjusted using
the relevant conversion factors (Annex 17).
B. Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
10.4      Economic cost and benefit streams for the ERR calculation are
presented in Annex 18. The estimated base-case ERR for ZYPF is 341. The
results of sensitivity tests on the economic rate of return are presented in
Table 10.1.
Table 10.1: ZYPF - SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF ERR
Base-case scenario                                34
Capital costs up 20Z                              30
Sales revenue down 20Z                            31
Variable costs up 20Z                             25
Two-year delay in completion                      27
10.5      As with the FRR, the economic rates of return remain satisfactory to
changes in assumptions within the ranges shown. The overall project ERR, not
quantifying additional benefits of the GMP program and the QC component, is
calculated at 25Z. An analysis of switching values for the economic and
financial return streams has been performed on the most sensitive parameters
i.e. variable production cost and output prices. The switching value for the
ERR (at which the ERR falls below the threshold of 121) occurs at a



- 45 -
combination of 20X drop in output prices with a 201 increase in variable cost
of production. The results are tabulated below.
Table 10.2: SWITCHING VALUES FOR FRR AND ERR
Fiinancial Product Prices          -251            Economic product prices          -352
Variable Production cost           +45%            Variable production cost          +602
Project capital cost               +802            Project capital cost             +110l
Product prices and                                 Product prices and
production costs                 -152/+13%       production cost                  -20Z/+20%
C. Net Foreign Exchange Savings
10.6      Once full operating capacity is reached, the exports of Vitamin C,
gluten feed and gluten meal are expected to generate grosi foreign exchange
revenues annually of US$27.1 million in 1987 prices. After netting out annual
service of foreign debt and imported raw material costs, net annual foreign
exchange savings for the period 1993-97 would average US$10 million.
D. Sectoral Contributions and Other Benefits
10.7      The ZYPF component is estimated to have good financial and economic
rates of return; it will significantly increase the foreign exchange obtained
from exports from the pharmaceutical subsector, and would contribute to the
transfer of modern technology, while simultaneously developing China's own
two-step fermentation process for Vitamin C production.  The demonstration
effects from the CMP component and ZYPF, (which will be designed and will
operate according to CMP standards), are expected not only to raise the
quality of drugs destined for the domestic market, (thus having a beneficial
impact on the population's health), but, by reducing the reject rate due to
quality control, will lead to lower unit costs and higher capacity utilization
throughout the industry. Moreover, exports of Chinese pharmaceuticals, which
are currently limited to low-priced bulk intermediaries because the high
standards of GMP are not being met, could expand and include the higher value-
added formulations. With the increase in life expectancy in China from 39
years to 69 years, over the past 35 years, and the resulting aging of the
population, there is a considerable growth in demand for diet supplements such
as Vitamin C. The output of the ZYPF component would help to meet this
demand, and in general the Project would aid China's efforts to improve drug
quality and public health.
E. Project Risks
10.8      The possible risks, which are considered small, are:  (i) possible
ineffective marketing of products produced by ZYPF; (b) possible delays and
cost overruns in ZYPF due to the complexity of the Project and (c) possible
reluctance of workers and management in the pharmaceutical factories to



- 46 -
implement the procedures and training necessary to reach and maintain GMP in
these plants. Risks associated with (a) will be minimized by ensuring that,
while a foreign trade company will initially be used to handle exports from
the project, a recruiting and training program for staff servicing both
domestic and export markets will be established well in advance of plant
start-up; risks associated with (b) will be minimized by ensuring that each
major production unit will be implemented as an integrated package for which
an individual contractor will assume sole responsibility. In any case the
rate of return is extremely robust, even if the capital cost estimates were to
be exceeded in practice. Risks associated with (c) will be minimized by the
commitment of COC to the objectives of the GMP program, to the agreement on
the employment of experienced consultants who will participate in all phases
of the implemertation of the GMP component, and by the commitment of the State
Pharmaceutical Administration (SPAC) to supervise this component of the
Project, as well as implementing the overall program for introduction of CMP
throughout the Chinese Pharmaceuticals Industry. This implementation will be
closely monitored by the Bank to ensure that the GMP program targets are met.



- 47 -
XI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
11.1      The following major assurance and agreements have been obtained at
negotiations.
(a) From the Government that it will:
(i) onlend US$117.5 million equivalent to Henan Province on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 7.4);
(ii)  onlend to Xin Hua Pharmaceutical Factory through Shandong
Province US$5.0 million equivalent for CMP implementation at
105%'of the Bank's variable interest rate, with a commitment
fee of 0.75% and a 15-year repayment period including 5 years
of grace (para. 7.4);
(iii) onlend to Shanghai No. 4 Pharmaceutical Factory through
Shanghai Municipality US$4.5 million equivalent for GMP
implementation at 105% of the Bank's variable interest rate
with a commitment fee of 0.75% and a 15-year repayment period
including 5 years of grace (para. 7.4);
(iv)  ensure that import licenses for all equipment and materials
required for the project would be g-anted on a timely basis
(para. 6.2);
(v) cause the GMP component to be implemented under Subsidiary
Loan and Project Implementation Agreements with the Companies
and with Shandong Province and Shanghai Municipality
respectively, on terms and conditions which shall have been
agreed with the Bank (para. 6.5);
(vi)  cause the GMP companies to provide training programs to the
Bank for comment by June 30, 1989, and to carry out agreed
training programs thereafter (para. 6.12);
(vii) cause the GMP companies, on completion of the basic design
work, to submit to the Bank detailed implementation schedules
(para. 6.7);
(viii) cause the GMP companies to maintain at all times debt service
coverage ratios of at least 1.5, maintain at all times long-
term debt equity ratios of not more than 60:40 and maintain
current ratios of at least 1.3 (para. 9.6);
(ix)  cause the GMP companies to provide audited financial
statements within six months of the close of the fiscal year
(para. 9.7);
(x) submit for comment, by December 31st 1990, an industry-wide
program for the introduction of CMP during the Eighth Five



- 48 -
Year Plan (1991-1995) and shall thereafter exchange views with
the Bank on changes in the GMP program, particularly in the
light of the experience under the Project (para 3.17).
(b) From Henan Province that it will:
(i) relend US$117.5 million equivalent to ZYPF at 105% of the
Bank's variable interest rate with a commitment fee of 0.75%
and a 15-year repayment period including 5 years of grace
(para. 7.4);
(ii)  implement the ZYPF component through the ZYPF PO until ZYPF's
establishment, including the provision by Henan Province of
infrastructure, raw materials and utilities (para. 4.5);
(iii) ensure that ZYPF will be established not later than December
30, 1990 in a form and with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.5);
(iv)  ensure that the ZYPF PO will construct the facilities and that
ZYPF will operate the facilities in accordance with
environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank, and that
ZYPF P0 will prepare the plant safety manual for hazardous
materials and emergency procedures at least one year prior to
startup (para. 6.16);
(v) ensure that ZYPF PO will, after major process contracts are
let, submit to the bank a detaiiea impiementation schedule
(para. 6.7);
(vi)  furnish to the Bank for comment, by June 30, 1989, a
recruitment and training program for ZYPF staff, including a
marketing organization plan and will cause marketing staff to
be appointed one year prior to start up, and an agreed
training program to be carried out (para. 6.11);
(vii) ensure that ZYPF will maintain at all times a debt service
coverage ratio of at least 1.5 in any year, and a current
ratio of at least 1.25 in any year and will attain a debt to
equity ratio of not more than 70 to 30 not later than 1994
(para. 9.6);
(viii) ensure that ZYPF PO will provide audited project accounts and
ZYPF audited financial statements and project accounts within
6 months of the close of the fiscal year (para. 9.7);
(ix)  that it will enter into a transfer and operations agreement
with ZYPF upon its establishment on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.5).



^ 49 -
11.2      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be: (a) signing of Subsidiary
Loan and Project Implementation Agreements between the Government and (i) Xin
Hua Pharmaceutical Factory and (ii) Shanghai No. 4 Pharmaceutical Factory for
the GMP component, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) approval of the loan agreement by China's State Council (para. 7.4).
11.3      Subject to the above assurances and agreements to be reached, the
Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$127.0 million equivalent to GOC at
the Bank's standard variable rate for 20 years including 5 years of grace,
with a commitment charge of 0.75%.



-50 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 11
CHINA
PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
The World Pharmaceuticals Industry
A. Introduction
1.        Although industrial-scale production of pharmaceuticals began more
than 100 years ago, it was the discovery of the therapeutic power of the sul-
fonamides in the 1930s, the development of industrial-scale fermentation pro-
cesses for the production of penicillin and the rapid increase in demand for
pharmaceuticals in World War II that provided the impetus for the development
of the modern pharmaceuticals industry. Many of the major companies in the
industry moved into pharmaceutical manufacture from the heavy and fine chemi-
cals and dyestuffs industries. Both in the USA and Europe the development of
the indus'-ry was due to a large extent to heavy expenditures incurred in
research and development (R&D) by managements which realized that R&D aimed at
the production of innovatory drugs could be a profitable investment.
B. Growth in World Consumption
2.        As the antibiotics and other new drugs developed during the war
period became available on civilian markets (particularly in industrialized
countries), there was a tremendous growth in the consumption of pharmaceuti-
ca'L. While the rate of expansion inevitably slowed down after the first
decades of growth, the value of world pharmaceuticals consumption continued to
grow at a rate exceeding 101 p.a. in the period 1960-70. The 1970s marked a
slackening in the rate of expansion, after about four decades of rapid growth.
Value of consumption in the USA, in real terms, actually declined between 1968
and 1978. Only in Latin America, Oceania and the Middle East was there
sustained growth in this period (Project File: Reference A).



- _1 -                      ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 11
Table 1:  WORLD CONSUMPTION OF PHARMACEUTICALS, 1968-86
(In constant 1986 US$ billion)
Average annual
1968           1978          1986       growth rates (Z)
$ bln   (X)   $ bln   (Z)   $ bln  (X)  1968-78    1978-86
USA                   15.3    30    13.4    19    22.8   20    (1.3)          6.9
Western Europe        15.3    30    21.2    30    35.3   31       3.3         6.6
Asia (including
Japan and China)    7.7    15    10.3    14    22.8   20        3.0        10.4
Eastern Europe
(Comecon)            6.2    12     9.2    13    17.1   15       4.0         8.0
Other areas            6.6    13    16.6    24    16.0   14       9.7        (0.5)
Total            51.1   100    70.7   100   114.0  100       3.3         6.2
Sources: Sema-Metra-Conseil and Bank Staff.
3.        The main reasons for the slowdown in growth in the 1970s were
downward pressures on prices due to increased control by governments on
pharmaceutical prices and increased competition, particularly from generies.
more stringent and time consuming regulatory activities by government
agencies, increased burden of R&D costs and a slowdown in economic growth.
4.        Nonetheless, the industry has demonstrated remarkable buoyancy and
the rates of growth in the 1980s have, in real terms, risen again; between
1978 and 1986, world consumption rose at an annual rate of 6.2Z. This rate of
expansion has been maintained in the 1980s in many developed, developing and
centrally planned economies. Only in Latin America have markets stagnated in
real terms, largely due to macroeconomic conditions. The profitability of the
industry has remained high since the 1950s, particularly in the USA. In the
period 1956-80, after-tax rates of return on average stockholders equity in
the US pharmaceutical industry never fell below 16.7%, and exceeded 20% in
several years; the comparable figures for all manufacturing industry ranged
from 8.6% to 16.4%.
5.        Consumption is concentrated in industrialized countries.  The fol-
lowing table shows the estimated shares in the world market of major consuming
areas in 1983.



- 52-                         ANNEXI
Page 3 of 11
Table 2: SHARE OF WORLD PHARMACEUTICALS MARKET 1983
Country/Region                                                     (Z)
USA                                                                23.5
Canada                                                              3.2
Western Europe                                                     25.0
Eastern Europe                                                     10.3
Japan                                                              17.0
Other Eastern Asia (including China)                                6.5
Other Asia and Oceania                                              6.6
Brazil                                                              2.1
Other South America                                                 2.4
Africa                                                              3.4
Total                                                        100.0
Source: IAL Consultants.
6.        The USA, Western Europe and Japan account for about 702 of world
consumption; of the balance, 10-15% is attributed to centrally planned
econom'ee f      -P\  nd~l 15-2f  to it.wl n~ins countries in Asia. Africa and Latin
America. The disparity between distribution of population and pharmaceuticals
consumption is thus very marked, with 75Z of the world's population consuming
less than 20% of all pharmaceuticals, and pharmaceutical consumption rather
highly correlated with income levels, (although there are wide variations in
the per capita consumption of pharmaceuticals between countries with similar
CNiPs). On average, developing countries spend almost the same proportion of
their CUP on pharmaceuticals (about 0.7%) as do industrialized countries
(about 0.75%).
C. Consumption by Therapeutic Groups
7.        The level of development of a country exerts a relatively small
effect on the pattern of consumption of different therapeutic groups (except
in poorer nations, where the emphasis is on the control of infectious and
endemic diseases and the correction of the results of malnutrition). However,
in industrialized countries (and some developing countries such as China) the
average age of the population is increasing as birth rates remain low and life
expectancy increases. Consequently, since the majority of pharmaceutical
sales is in industrialized countries, the proportion of world sales of
pharmaceuticals aimed at alleviating conditions of the aged (e.g., cardio-
vasculars, anticancer drugs, analgesics, nutritional supplements) has
increased and is expected to increase in the future. Antibiotics are expected
to continue to undergo development to increase range, specificity and
effectiveness as resistant bacterial strains emerge. The increased use of
psychotropics, particularly to alleviate mental illness and stress, is
expected to continue. This trend is observed in developing as well as



-53 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 11
developed countries. The following table shows the change in patterns of
consumption since 1968.
Table 3: PERCENTAGE OF WORLD ETHICAL PHARMACEUTICAL SALES
(SPECIALITY) BY MAJOR THERAPEUTIC CATEGORY, 1968-86
(percentages)
Therapeutic category                          1968         1978          1986
Penicillins and Cephalosporins                  15            12           13
Other antibiotics and anti-infectives           13            13           12
Cardiovasculars                                 11            14           15
Vitamins                                         5             7            8
Analgesics and antiulcers                       10             7            8
Psychotropics                                    4            6             8
Others                                          42           41            36
Total                                     100          100           100
Source:  Sema-Metra-Conseil (Project File:  Reference A).
D. Future Trends in Consumption
8.        Projections of future consumption have been prepared by Bank Staff.
These estimates are conservative and are based on the assumptions of: -
(a) tighter control of health care expenditure in developed countries; and
(b) moderate rates of growth in GNP per capita in developing countries. The
estimates of consumption of pharmaceuticals for the year 2000 are US$140-150
billion for industrialized nations and US$60-80 billion for developing
countries and CPEs, giving a total of US$200-230 billion. This is equivalent
to annual growth rates for the period 1986-2000 of 4-5%, compared with a
historical growth rate of over 6Z p.a. (in real terms) for the period 1978-86.
E. Production
9.        Two major stages of production exist in the pharmaceutical industry.
They are: (a) bulk active ingredients, produced by multistage synthesis from
chemical raw materials, or from plants or animal organs, or (particularly
antibiotics) by fermentation processes, often followed by synthesis steps; and
(b) the formulated and packaged dosage forms (specialties) often sold under
brand names. Packaging is complex and relatively expensive and adds consider-
ably to the cost of production of formulations.
10.       The number of different dosage forms sold in the world lies in the
range of 35,000-50,000. These are derived from 5,000-7,000 different active
ingredients. However, some 150 active ingredients account for more than 80%
of volume and sales. The estimated value of active ingredients produced
worldwide rose from about US$2.5 billion in 1968 to about US$16 billion in



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 11
1986, while in the same period, sales of formulations by the industry rose
from US$14 billion to US$114 billion. Active ingredients thus account for
about 14% of the value of formulations sold by industry.
11.       Pharmaceuticals production, like consumption, is concentrated in
industrialized countries. The USA (39%), Japan (18%) and FRG, UK, France,
Italy and Switzerland (26%) account for 83% of world production of pharmaceu-
ticals. Japan has emerged as a major producer, based on a large domestic
market, only in the last decade. Pharmaceuticals manufacturers in Japan and
the USA export a small percentage of their output (less than 10%); a much
greater proportion of European production is exported, as the following table
shows.
Table 4: THE MAJOR PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCING NATIONS, 1982
Output           Home sales            Exports
(US$ billion)            (X)                 (X)
USA                            24.8                   91                  9
Japan                          15.9                   98                  2
FRG                             6.9                   70                 30
UK                              5.2                   67                 33
France                          5.1                   73                 27
Italy                           3.2                   78                 22
Switzeriand                     2                     36
In these countries, production of pharmaceuticals represents about 1% of GDP.
F. Transnational Pharmaceutical Companies
12.       The high concentration of production in developed countries is
associated with the dominant position of the transnational pharmaceutical
companies (TNCs) which base the greater part of their operations in these
countries. The 25 major TNCs hold about 60% of the world market for pharma-
ceuticals. Many production facilities in developing countries are wholly or
partly owned by TNCs; often these facilities formulate products utilizing
active ingredients imported from the TNC's main production complex in
developed countries. Only the large TNCs can afford the large investment in
new product research and development which accounts for between 8-18% of
turnover of these companies. It is estimated that an established firm in the
chemical industry would have to allocate US$50 million per year for 15 years
to establish a viable R&D operation in the field of pharmaceuticals, which
could lead to the production of original products. The cost of bringing a new
drug from the laboratory to the market place is estimated at US$50-150
million. Such a level of expenditure can only be met by the large TNCs.
Other producers (particularly in developing countries) confine their R&D
activities to process development, which is less costly, and reflects the
absence of product and sometimes process patent protection in these



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 11
countries. Other reasons for the maintenance of TNC dominance are (a) patent
laws; (b) product differentiation; and (c) economies of scale.
(a) Patent Laws. Most developed countries grant both product and pro-
cess patents. Usually, developing countries (if they grant any form
of patent protection at all) grant only process patents. In gene-
ral, however, the effective life of a drug product patent is consid-
erably shorter than its nominal life because of the long period
required for R&D, particularly for meeting toxicology requirements
and for premarketing clinical trials.
(b) Product Differentiation. TNCs utilize high earnings from successful
products to cover the costs of R&D and the production and marketing
of less successful products. In order to maintain the price struc-
ture beyond the effective life of the product patent, and also to
achieve maximum awareness by the medical profession in the fastest
time, much emphasis is placed on marketing, particularly brand-name
promotion. Expenditures in this area usually form a quite
substantial part (10-20%) of the selling price. New companies
attempting to enter the market place are forced to spend heavily on
marketing in order to overcome the cumulative effects of promotional
expenditures by established companies in the field. However, the
sales of generic drugs (sold at lower prices than brand-name
products) have been gaining ground in certain markets in recent
years, often as the result of governmental intervention in the
market place.
(c)  Economies of Scale.  Economies of scale are the major element in
preserving the dominance of TNCs.  Economies of scale are found in
R&D, production and marketing. Scale economies in production occur
in the manufacture of active ingredients, in preferential access to
raw material supplies and in production quality control. Promotion
and marketing costs, if spread over large markets and a broad range
of products, exhibit economies of scale. Often, for instance, a
significant part of marketing costs, such as sales force
expenditures, is largely independent of turnover and of the number
of products marketed.
13.       To a large extent the pharmaceutical industry is concentrated in the
private sector, although government regulation of R&D, product quality and
pricing is widespread, in developed as well as developing countries. Some
developing countries which have public-sector production operations also
encourage the private sector to produce pharmaceuticals. In several centrally
planned economies (e.g., Hungary and China), the pharmaceutical industry has
been conspicuously successful and has established a position in export
markets; it is noteworthy that this success is to a large extent associated
with the delegation of production and marketing decisions to the enterprise
level.



-56                              ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 11
G. World Trade
14.       In the 20-year period 1965-85, world trade in pharmaceuticals grew
tenfold from US$1.35 billion to US$13.6 billion. Although demand and supply
for pharmaceuticals are concentrated in developed countries, no country can be
self-supporting in all active ingredients and formulations. The Federal
Republic of Germany (the largest European producer) is a typical example in
that, while it manufactures drugs to the value of about US$8 billion, the
value of exports is about US$2.5 billion and that of imports, US$1.3 bil-
lion. Although a significant part of world trade is between the developed
countries, developing countries (and to a lesser extent, centralLy planned
economies) obtain a large part of their pharmaceutical requirements from
developed countries. While an estimated 62% of world imports of pharmaceuti-
cals is accounted for by developed countries, and just under 10% by CPEs, the
absolute value of developing countries imports has been increasing. The
developed countries (including CPES), however, continue to dominate exports,
still accounting for 93% of the total.
Table 5: WORLD PHARMACEUTICAL TRADE FLOW 1965-85
(Current US$ billion)
Exports                Imports
1965       1985        1965        1985
USA                                     0.26        2.79       0.06        0.94
FRG                                     0.23       2.36        0.06        1.29
UK                                      0.19        1.85       0.03        0.57
Switzerland                             0.18        1.85       0.04        0.77
France                                  0.12        1.52       0.06        0.80
Italy                                   0.06       0.77        0.06        0.85
Other OECD countries                    0.31        2.46       0.47        4.52
Total OECD                          1.35      13.60        0.78        9.74
Centrally planned economies              -          1.10        -          1.51
Developing countries                     -         0.90        0.57        4.35
Total                              1.35      15.60        1.35       15.60
Today, the six large exporting countries account for over 70% of world
exports; world trade accounts for about 15% of world production. Japan and
the CPEs have not emerged as important world exporters; among CPEs, Hungary
exports about 67% of its production and the People's Republic of China exports
about 6% of its production as active ingredients and bulk intermediates.



- 57 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 11
H. Pharmaceuticals in Developing Countries
15.       While consumption of pharmaceuticals in developing countries has
increased in recent years, most of this increase has occurred in middle-income
and newly industrialized countries and the People's Republic of China. The
following table shows the growth of regional consumption in the main
developing areas since 1980.
Table 6: EVOLUTION OF DEVELOPING COUNTRY
PHARMACEUTICAL MARKETS, 1980-86
(Current US$ billion)
1980     1981      1985     1986
Asia/Pacific Region (including PRC)            7.0       7.5      8.2       8.5
Latin America                                  5.6       5.3      6.1       6.5
Middle East and Africa                         2.2       2.5       3.7      4.0
Total                                     14.8      15.3     18.0      19.0
Because of low per capita GNPs in many developing countries, there exist wide
disparities between the actual consumption of pharmaceuticals in key thera-
peutic groups and what informed health care analysts consider to be the
desired level of consumption, as derived from morbidity rates. Health-care
administrators in developing countries naturally encourage or adopt policies
which they believe can ensure a lower level of price and a significant reduc-
tion in the proportion of cost (and foreign exchange outlays) in the total
health care bill. To an increasing extent (with the support of international
agencies) the policy of central procurement (using International Competitive
Bidding where appropriate) has been adopted. Strong price controls have also
been adopted by several developing countries, but the effects of such controls
have, in many cases, discouraged local branches of TUCs from importing drugs
into developing countries; local production is often less economically
efficient (because of poor technologies, lack of GMP standards or insufficient
production levels), and severe price controls have rendered local production
facilities in the private sector unprofitable in some countries and caused
them to shut down.
16.       Many developing country governments have encouraged the setting up
of local manufacturing facilities. The establishment of packaging or dosage
formulation facilities (where economies of scale are less important than in
the manufacture of intermediates and bulk active ingredients) has been carried
out with varying degrees of success in a number of developing couatries, but
because of the reliance on technology acquired from abroad and the heavy con-
tinuing dependence on imports of raw materials, which are major expenditure
items, the savings in cost and foreign exchange are much lower than might be
expected. Often agreements for raw material supply or technology transfer
limit the export of the formulated products (which in some cases do not match



- 58 -
ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 11
the quality of formulations produced in developed countries); because of the
smali domestic market, economies of scale are not captured and production
costs are therefore high.
17.       Only a small number of countries possess the necessary attributes
and conditions conducive to the establishment and growth of a viable major
pharmaceutical industry. These include the existence of a substantial chemi-
cal industry, skilled personnel, a threshold level of highly qualified profes-
sional scientists and managers, large markets (whether domestic or export),
access to efficient technology, and an ability to organize, finance and
maintain a substantial R&D activity efficiently.
18.       Five stages of pharmaceutical production have been identified by
UNIDO. The table on the next page shows the classification of developing
countries according to the stage of pharmaceutical development they have
attained. Broadly speaking the groups can be categorized as follows:
Group 1: No manufacture; dependent on importation of pharmaceuticals in
finished form;
Group 2: Beginning to repack formulated drugs and to process bulk drugs
into dosage forms;
Group 3: Formulating a broad range of bulk drugs into dosage forms and
some simple bulk drugs from intermediates;
Group 4: Manufacturing a broad range of bulk drugs from intermediates as
well as some intermediates using locally produced raw
materials;
Group 5: Manufacturing most intermediates required; undertaking local
research on the development of innovative products and
manufacturing processes.
19.       Most African countries, as well as most lower-income Asian countries
(with the exception of China and India), fall into Groups 1 and 2. In Group 3
are found many of the Arab states, Ghana and Nigeria, most of the ASEAN coun-
tries and, from Latin America, Colombia, Equador and Peru; Bangladesh also is
classified under this heading.
20.       The countries grouped in the fourth and fifth stages of pharmaceuti-
cal development are characterized by the highest degree of vertical integra-
tion. The countries in the fourth group include Chile, Venezuela, Republic of
Korea, Pakistan and Turkey. The countries which have reached the fifth
stage-Argentina, Brazil, China, Egypt, India, Mexico, Yugoslavia, Hungary,
Poland and Romania--have relatively large pharmaceutical markets (either
domestic or potential export) and also carry out some research and development
on new and adapted pharmaceutical products and processes. This stage requires
the existence of a sophisticated chemical industry, an adequate pool of highly
trained personnel and an indigenous capability for local research and develop-
ment.



- 59 -                                AMX 1
Page 10 of 11
CIA PHAUCIUTIALS PROJC
Stage of Development of the Pharmaceutical Industry
In Some Developing Countries, 1979
Latin                        Middle
Stage of Pharmaceutical Production       Africa       America         Asia            East
Group lis  Countries which have no    Burundi        Honduras       Bhutan         Yemen
manufacturing facilities and there-  Chad
fore are depending upon imported      Lesotho
pharmaceuticals in their finished    Rwanda
form.  In many of these countries    Zambia
there is insufficient trained per-   Sierra Leone
sonnel, limited public health         Somalia
services and poor distribution        Swaziland
channels.                             Togo
Uganda
Central
Africa
Republic
Group 2:  Countries which have        Ivory Coast    Bolivia        Afgahanistan  Jordan
started to repack formulated          Kenya          El Salvador   Burma
drugs and process bulk drugs          Madagascar      Guatemala
into dosage forms.                    Senegal        Haiti
Sudan          Trinidad
United           and Tobago
aepblc
of Tanzania
Group 3:  Countries which manu-       Ghana           Colombia      Bangladesh    Algeria
facture a broad range of bulk         Nigeria        Ecuador        Indonesia      Iran
drugs into dosage forms and                           Peru          Phillipines   Iraq
manufacture some simple bulk                                        Singapore      Morocco
drugs from intermediates.                                                          Syrian
Arab
Republic
Group 4:  Countries which pro-                        Chile         Republic
duce a broad range of bulk drugs                     Venezuela        of Korea
from intermediates and manufac-                                     Pakistan
ture some intermediates using                                       Turkey
locally produced chemicals.
Group 5:  Countries which manu-                      Argentina      India          Egypt
facture most of the intermedi-                       Brazil         China          Hungary
ates required and manufacture                        Mexico                        Poland
most of the pharmaceuticals                                                        Romania
required domestically and under-                                                   Yugoslavia
take local research on the devel-
opment of products and manufac-
turing processes.
Sources UNIDO



- 60 -                        ANNEX 1
Page 11 of 11
21.       In most developing countries, and for most products, even when a
domestic industry exists which produces a range of intermediates and finished
products, the country will have to rely on the international pharmaceutical
companies (TNCs or, in some cases, smaller specialized firms in developed
countries) for many intermediates, for much of the process technology, for new
drug development and for the setting of quality standards of both products and
processes. At the same time, unless artificially restrained by the govern-
ment, the international industry will continue to be the major competitor to
the local industry--a competitor which can often produce most of the drugs
required at lower cost and with greater marketing power. For this reason, an
increasing number of developing countries have been seeking joint-venture
operations with TNCs.



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
Organization of the Pharmaceutical Industry
1.        Virtually all operations of the Chinese pharmaceutical industry--
including production of Western and traditional Chinese medicines, distribu-
tion and a significant part of foreign trade--are the responsibility of the
State Pharmaceuwicals Administration of China (SPAC) which was set up in
1978. SPAC is a ministerial economic entity reporting to the State Economic
Commission, and is composed of a series of central bureaus (dealing with
Foreign Affairs Planning, Drug Quality Control, Construction, Labor,
Personnel, Materials Research, Education, Finance, Pricing Policy and
Enterprise Management) and six companies which provide a comprehensive
coverage of all aspects of pharmaceutical operations. These companies are:
(a) China National Pharmaceutical Corporation; (b) China National Herbal
Medicine Corporation; (c) The China National Drug Corporation; (d) China
National Medical Equipment Corporation; (e) China National Corporation of
Pharmaceutical Economic and Technical International Corporation; and (f) China
National Health Care Products Imports and Exports Corporation. In addition,
SPAC maintains several educational institutes and research institutes.
2.        The China National Pharmaceutical Corporation, which employs about
400,000 people, in about 840 plants, is responsible for the production of
Western pharmaceuticals--both bulk chemicals and formulations. (Some plants
which are not part of the Corporation, but are licensed by SPAC, make inter-
mediates which are further processed and formulated in the Corporation's
plants.) About 3,000 final products are formulated and packaged, with an
output value of Y 10.7 billion (US$3.3 billion) in 1985. The individual
enterprises are enjoying an increasing amount of autonomy in determining both
production programs and prices.  Most domestic prices lie between 25%-100  of
those obtained in Western Europe; the industry as a whole is profitable.
3.        China National Herbal Medicine Corporation has the responsibility
for growing, collecting, processing and distributing Chinese herbal
medicines.   It employs 88,000 people in 400 production units (factories and
farms). The industry produces 650,000-700,000 tpy of products, valued at
about Y 9.2 billion (US$2.5 billion) in 1985.
4.        China National Drug Corporation is responsible for the distribution
of chemical (Western) medicines in China. The corporation employs over
300,000 people, of whom 140,000 work in 3,000 distribution centers and 170,000
are employed in retail outlets. While any member of the general public can
purchase medical products in a retail outlet, only 10X are purchased in this
way, or through groups such as the All-China Federation of Women; about 90Z of
products are sold directly to hospitals and clinics.
SPAC also has three other companies under its control:



- 62 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
5.        The China National Medical Equipment Production Corporation is
responsible for the production of medical equipment with an output value of
Y 700 million (US$183 million) per year and employs 80,000 staff, in 400
medium- and large-size factories as well as numerous small workshops.
6.        National Corporation of Pharmaceutical Economic and Technical
International Cooperation is responsible for technical and economic coopera-
tion with foreign companies, governments and transnationals. The Corporation
coordinates patent and license arrangements with foreign companies as well as
joint ventures both in China and abroad.
7.        China National Health Care Products, Import and Export Corporation
is one of those responsible for the import and export of pharmaceuticals. The
corporation consists of six divisions to deal with: (a) raw herbs;
(b) Chinese medicines; (c) Western drugs and raw materials; (d) medical
instruments and hospital equipment; (e) medical instrument servicing; and
(f) Eastern European operations (including bilateral barter trade). Imports
through these divisions amount to about US$100 million of which US$80-90
million are on account of Western drugs (mainly finished products), half of
which are antibiotics. The value of exports is about US$700 million, of which
Western drugs account for US$300 million (mainly in the form of raw materials
and active ingredients). The Corporation has 42 branches throughout China,
and maintains overseas offices in Hong Kong, Japan and the Federal Republic of
Cermany; an office in the USA is opening soon.
Other Institutions
8.        Each province has its own pharmaceutical bureau, which receives
technical guidance from SPAC, but is under the administrative control of the
province. SPAC also operates three colleges (the Shenyang College of Phar-
macy, the Nanjing College of Pharmacy, and the Shanghai College of Medical
Equipment); in addition, there are 13 technical middle schools of pharmacy
operated by provinces.
9.        SPAC also directly operates three research institutes and one design
institute; in addition, there are 33 provincial research institutes. Research
responsibilities are divided roughly as follows: the Pharmaceutical Adminis-
tration for research into production; the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) for
research into the clinical aspects of pharmaceutical matters; and the Shanghai
Institute of Materia Medica of the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences for
basic research.



- 63 -                    ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
The GMP Program of the State Pharmaceutical Administration of China l/
1.        Taking a long view of the matter, the promoting and implementing GMP
in China Pharmaceutical Industry does not only improve the quality of pharma-
ceutical products and allow Chinese products to compete in the World Market,
but also is an important strategy and decision to protect People's health in
such a big country with more than one billion people.
2.        Therefore, SPAC, as the highest administrative leading body of China
Pharmaceutical Industry, decides to carry out the transformation plan of all
Chinese pharmaceutical enterprises in the future 20 years, which will upgrade
them to meet GMP Standards. The objective of this work is that by the end of
this century, Chinese GMP Standards will be implemented and that the factories
which will not meet GMP in the year 2000, will be forced to stop production by
certain means.
3.        This report describes SPAC's transformation plan of all the China
Pharmaceutical Industry in the future 20 years.
SPAC's GKP Program
4.        The program was started in the 6th 5-year plan and the strategy
adopted is based on a planned stage by stage approach.
Stage A
(a) During the 6th 5-year plan and the first part of the 7th 5-year plan
period, a plant was erected in Beijing No. I Pharmaceutical Factory
for tabletting formulation; the project was designed and operated
according to WHO GMP standards and was supported by UNFPA; the
design was by Schering who had provided the know-how for the contra-
ceptives plant at Beijing No. 1.
(b) With the support of UNICEF, Min Sheng Pharmaceutical Factory are
erecting a plant for children's medicines (including antipyretics,
anti-inflammatories). The plant, which is designed by Shanghai
Design Institute, will conform to WHO GMP Standards; design review
is currently being undertaken.
(c)  Plants conforming to WHO GMP standards are being erected in Hubei
and Nanjing (for contraceptives and children's diseases).
1!   Tezt of a statement transmitted to the Bank on December 10, 1987, from
Mr. Han Li Xin, Deputy Bureau Director, Bureau of Planning and Basic
Construction, State Pharmaceutical Administration of China.



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
(d) These four projects are the models for the CMP program for new
plants.
Stage B
A number of joint ventures with foreign companies are being under-
taken; all these projects must conform to WHO GMP standards. Amongst
these projects are Shanghai Squibb, Tiantsin Otsuka, Tianjin Smith Klein,
Beijing CibaGeigy, Xian Janson, and projects with Warner Lambert (hard
capsules) and SinoSwede (Astra). All these are large projects but in
addition, a number of smaller projects are being undertaken and negotia-
tions are currently under way with a number of foreign companies. These
projects are designed to act as models for GMP standards in buildings,
equipment, software and management practice.
Stage C
All the above projects relate to new plants, but the larger problem
is raising standards in existing plants to meet GMP standards. Part of
the proposed World Bank loan is to support the introduction of FDA
standards of GMP in formulation plants in two plants which will be in a
position to repay the foreign exchange part of the loan themselves.
Through the establishment of these two subprojects, SPAC hopes to train
people in GMP management and engineering as well as in operations. It
should be noted that more than ten bulk active ingredient plants have
already received FDA approval, but as yet, no formulation plants.
These two projects form the starting point of a long term program
for bringing GMP to the entire existing pharmaceutical industry.
Stage D
In the 8th 5-year plan (1991-1995), SPAC hopes to utilize a major
World Bank loan to carry out modifications on about 40 Pharmaceutical
factories to bring them up to GNP standards; about US$2-3 million per
factory will be needed. GMP personnel trained in the first World Bank
project would be used to train the staff of the 40 factories. The first
two selected factories (in the current World Bank project) will be used
as training grounds.
Stage E
After 1995, legislation will be introduced to ensure that every
pharmaceutical factory reaches GMP levels.  Four CMP levels are currently
being considered.
Level 1 - FDA (a minority of plants)
Level 2 - WHO (most plants)
Level 3 - High (ainese level (a smaller number)
Level 4 - Low Chinese level.
Plants meeting only level 4 will have to stop production until
modifications and training can bring them up to acceptable standards. An
inspectorate is already being set up to ensure that plants maintain their
GMP levels.



ANNEX 3
-65 -                         Page 3 of 3
Stage C
During the next 5-year plan, steps will be taken to introduce Good
Laboratory Practice (GLP) and Good Shop Practice (GSP). Some institutes
(e.g. Shanghai) have already started construction of new buildings
meeting GLP standards, and some pharmacology units have already intro-
duced GLP.
Stage H
Good Shop Practice will be introduced in the first level (Central)
distribution centers which distribute throughout the country; this work
should be completed by 2000. However, some activity in this area has
already started; in Beijing, new shop systems and equipment from Sweden
are being installed.
Stage I
SPAC is currently preparing Chinese GMP Standards, L sed on WHO and
FDA standards. It has been agreed that the Ministry of Public Health
(MOPH) will use them as national standards.
Stage J
A comprehensive training plan for personnel in the field is
currently being prepared. Some staff have already been sent abroad (to
Sweden) for CMP courses and foreign experts have already been invited
from Sweden to China.



- 66 -                      ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 5
CHINA
PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory Proiect Scope
1.       The following, along with the block flow diagram, gives a brief
description of the major process sections of the Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals
Factor. Fuller details of the processes and the equipment are given in the
Project File: Reference A.
Corn Receiving
2.       Shelled corn (of which a particular variety called "horses teeth"
with a high starch content is used) is received in bulk via railroad cars
and/or trucks over a weigh bridge. The corn is sampled and tested for
aflatoxin, pesticides and moisture content. On clearance by the Quality
Control Department. the shipment is unloaded and the corn cleaned via a system
of vibratory screens and magnetic separators, so that only intact corn kernels
are sent to the storage silos (capacity approximately 33,000 HT) for feed to
the starch plant. Broken corn and fines are sent to the feed plant to be
incorporated in the gluten feed. The system will be designed and operated to
minimize the risk of dust explosions
Starch Plant
3.       Corn Steeping.  The purpose of the steeping is to separate water sol-
uble substances from the corn and to soften the kernels, so that these become
amenable to further mechanical separation. This is accomplished by keeping
the kernels in contact with warm water to which sulfur dioxide (prepared in a
sulfur burning unit) has been added; the sulfur dioxide speeds up the absorp-
tion of water and prevents sprouting and the growth of bacteria. Soluble
components are leached from the corn and the oil bearing germ becomes partly
separated from the liquid and sent to corn milling; the liquid is recycled for
re-use in the steeping process. As the dissolved solids build up, a side
stream is bled off to the feed plant and the liquid replaced with wash water
from the starch plant.
4.       Corn Milling.  In this section, the oil germ is first separated care-
fully from the rest of the material, so as to obtain an oil free starch; the
starch is then liberated and separated from the rest of the material.
Milling, or grinding, is carried out in two stages. In the first stage the
steeped corn is mixed with water and fed first to a primary, and then to a
secondary mill. Each mill is followed by liquid cyclones which separate the
lighter germ fraction. The washed and dried germ is then sent to the corn oil
plant and the germ free corn particles are dewatered and finely ground in the
second stage mill.
5.       Starch Plant.  The material leaving the second stage mill of the corn
milling operation goes through a multiple screening and washing system in
which fibers and any heavy particles (grit, etc.) are separated. The screened



- 67 -                     ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 5
mill starch is then separate from the gluten via centrifugal separators
followed by liquid cyclone washing fresh treated water. The gluten is then
dewatered and dried via thickeners and vacuum belt filters and then sent to
the feed plant. The greater part of the purified starch milk is pumped to the
dextrose plant; the remainder is dewatered, dried and bagged in 50 kg. bags.
Minimization of the water usage is essential to minimize the energy consump-
tion of the process. However, the removal of soluble material from the
purified starch milk is necessary for production of pharmaceutical grade
starch and dextrose, so the final thickening and washing stage must be
efficiently designed and operated.
6.       Starch Modification.  Acid and oxidized and modified starches are
prepared in an agitated reactor on a batch wise basis. For acid modified
starches, hydrochloric acid is added to the starch milk and heated to the
reaction temperature; the temperature is then maintained by removing the heat
of reaction with chilled water circulating through a cooling coil in the
reactor. The reaction is stopped by neutralizing the acid. The slurry is
then washed in liquid cyclones, dewatered on a belt filter, dried in a flash
drier and then bagged. Oxidized starch is prepared in the same manner, except
that sodium hypochlorite is used instead of hydrochloric acid. For ethylene
oxide and epichlorhydrin derivative products the same basic equipment is used.
Corn Oil Plant
7.       Dried oil germ from the starch plant is passed through a multi-stage
cooker to raise the temperature and lower the moisture content, and then
pressed in a screw press to expel the germ oil. The oil is then filtered and
then pumped to a tank where it is treated first with a small quantity of
phosphoric acid, and then with sodium hydroxide to saponify all the free fatty
acids. This is batch process in which the oil is heated and stirred for a
sufficient time for the reactions to take place. The treated oil is then
centrifuged to remove the soaps, impurities, and hydrated gums. The treated
oil is then washed with hot water and then dried under vacuum. The final
stages are decolorization of the oil by mixing with bleaching clay and
heating, dewaxing by filtering the chilled oil, and deodorizing by finely
filtering the oil at elevated temperature under vacuum and adding citric acid.
Gluten Feed Plant
8.       Gluten Meal.  Liquid from the corn steeping operation, soap stock
from the germ oil processing, and excess bio sludge from the process waste
water treatment plant are mixed and passed through a double effect falling
film evaporator to remove water and give a high solids content slurry. The
slurry is mixed with broken corn and fines from the corn cleaning section, and
with the fibers from the corn oil plant added, and the mixture passed through
a hammer mill and then bagged.
9.       Gluten Feed.  The gluten from the starch plant is dried, passed
through a hammer mill and either bagged in this form or, for export,
pelletized and then bagged.



- 68 -                     ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
Dextrose Plant
10.      Glucose Syrup.  Starch milk from the starch plant is mixed with cal-
cium chloride, soda ash and heat stable alpha-amylase (an enzyme). After
holding at elevated temperature for one to two hours, the mixture is cooled
and diluted and a second enzyme, glucoamylase is added and the mixture sent to
the saccharification tanks where it is held for about 48 hours so that
approximately 95Z of the starch is converted to dextrose. The raw dextrose
solution is then purified. It is filtered, passed over activated carbon, then
over ion exchange resin, and finally filtered again. The refined syrup is
then concentrated prior to dextrose crystallization.
11.      Dextrose Monohydrate.  The refined syrup is crystallized in
continuous crystallizers under temperature and concentration conditions that
favor the formation of dextrose monohydrate. The crystals are separated from
the remaining liquor (hydrol) by centrifuging, washed, dried and bagged.
Hydrol is partly recycled to the ion exchange system of the glucose syrup
purification; the excess is pumped to storage tanks.
12.      Anhvdrous Dextrose.  Dry crystals of dextrose monohydrate are
dissolved in demineralized water and recrystallized under conditions that
favor the formation of anhydrous dextrose. The final stage is similar to the
preparation of monohydrate with the exception that remaining liquor is concen-
trated and recycled to the glucose syrup section.
Sorbitol Plant
13.      Purified glucose monohydrate crystals with only trace quantities of
other sugars and minerals is required to produce pharmaceutical quality
sorbitol in good yields. Glucose solution is hydrogenated in a reactor using
finely divided nickel (Raney nickel) as a catalyst. At the reaction tempera-
ture of about 90 C the reaction is strongly exothermic so the reactor must be
cooled. At the end of the reaction, the sorbitol solution is withdrawn,
filtered and passed over ion resins. The resulting product can then be used
as a fermentation substrate or concentrate prior to drumming and sale. Both
hydrogen and the nickel catalyst used in the manufacture of sorbitol are
hazardous materials (although they do not pose a hazard to the public at
large) and plant design and operating procedures will be such as to minimize
the risks of local fires and explosions posed by these materials.
Vitamin C (Ascorbic Acid) Plant
14.      Fermentation Section.  The Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factor will use
proprietary Chinese technology for the production by fermentation of sorbitol
to 2-keto gulonic acid (KGA). Other commercial processes also use sorbitol as
the starting point, but ferment this to sorbose followed by the "Reichsteing
synthesis to obtain vitamin C.
15.      Vitamin C Processing.  Crystalline KGA from the proprietary fermenta-
tion process is dissolved in methanol in an esterification reactor and esteri-
fied in the presence of sulfuric acid. The solution is then made alkaline by
adding sodium hydroxide which breaks the ester, with the formation of sodium
ascorbate. The reactor is then heated to distill off the methanol and crysta-



- 69 -                      ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 5
llize the sodium ascorbate. The sodium ascorbate crystals are separated by
centrifuging, dissolved in methanol and titrated with sulfuric acid. Sodium
sulfate is then removed from the solution by crystallization and centrifuging.
16.      Vitamin C Purification.  The solution of ascorbic acid is decolorized
with active carbon, filtered and fed to an evaporator. The concentrate from
the evaporator is sent to crystallizers working under vacuum or nitrogen.
Crystals of vitamin C are separated from the chilled liquor by centrifuging.
The crystals are then dissolved in water, filtered and recrystallized care-
fully to promote the growth of large crystals -- which are preferred in the
export market. The crystals are separated by centrifuging, washed with
ethanol to remove water, tray dried and sifted to remove fine crystals. The
crystals are stored in grades by crystal size, and after release by the
Quality Control Department are packed in drums for sale.
Process Wastewater Treatment and Disposal
17.      The biological treatment of the wastewater from the process produces
biomass with a high nitrogen content which is a valuable addition to the
glutAn meal. Process wastewater from the production facilities, however, must
be strictly separated from all other streams (sanitary wastewater, drainage,
blowdowas and regenerate wastes, etc.) including nickel containing wastes from
the sorbitol plant. The wastewater is collected in an equalization tank,
neutralized and pumped to the aeration tanks which constitute the first stage
of biological treatment. Nutrient nitrogen and phosphorus are added to ensure
growth of a healthy biomass. The biomass and partially treated wastewater are
separated in a clarifier with the bulk pumped back to the aeration tanks and
the excess thickened in a centrifuge and then sent to the feed drier for
incorporation into the gluten meal. The wastewater then goes through a second
stage biological treatment similar to the first stage, and after clarification
and filtering, is finally discharged to the main effluent sewer, or used for
irrigation of adjacent farm land.



-70-                  ANNE 4
Page 5 of 5
rtw-----------------------
!~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~ I         -i..
LJ
Lmm
-T- 1    3T -  l
l-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                    l



CHINA
PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory
Implementation Organization
Headquarters Preparing to
Construct Zhong Yuan
Pharmaceutical Factory
"~iz
Zhong Yuan
Pharmaceutical Factory
Preparation Office
Planming Department      Department            Department            Department            Department
ORGANIZATION & DISCIPLINES:                                      CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION  Civil engineering: establishment ofntol
DEPARTMENT:              capital construction plan: schedule control.
HEADQUARTERS   Composed of leaders of Municipal Authorities:
Taking charge of making policies & dealing with    FIRST TECHNOLOGICAL   Application & development of process
issues during implementation of the project.   DEPARTMENT:              technology; domestic & foreign training.
PREPARATORY       Concrete organization implementing the project.  SECOND TECHNOLOGICAL Mechanical engineering: electrical
OFFICE:           Directors are as follows:                      DEPARTMENT:              engineerig & domestic procurement.
Director: Yue Bao Jun
Deputy Director- Shi Xie Qu:Guo Yue Ling       FOREIGN AFFAIRS OFFICE: Foreign procuere.ent. supervision
Advisor: Qu Guo Xang                                                    of contract; translation & interpretation.
GENERAL OFFICE: In charge of laison, coordination with each      CHEF ECONOMIST 8         Management of financial affairs:
functional department 8 logistics.             FINANCIAL AFFAIRS        cost control of the project.
DEPARTMENT:                                                     '
k\w4 248 lb



CHINA
Pharmaceuticals Project
Zhong Yuan epharmaceutical Factory
Project Implementation Schedule
Aclivily            -          - - -         - --…                                           
UI13  4        aU     IVU  Ito I,+; FW3511 Au s,*g IOI ;!;3tI;44l253SJIJl3O    3 33  331 30   40At434*4 44!au 4, 464
Comeptele kuplemontation
Prelhninauy Design
Foreign Equmprnnnt                          --
Procexement
PrsEm"inagy necs.gn
Approval
EpuOnient Suppglier
Systems Dosrgnv
Foreign Eqpupmennl
Materials Fab and Delivery
Foreign Engineerinig
Final Design
S PA Finall
Detaled Design Approval 
Domneslic Detailod Design
Order and Dekver
Domestic Materials
Select Domestic
Construction Contractofs
Contractor Receives
Drawings and Mobilizes
Cvli & Utilities Construction
Equiment &
Material Erection
Training
Mechanical/Floct. ical
Start-Up/Rein                                                                                                                                          O
Conmnssioning 
cat\w41136b 
45.



CHINA
PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
GMP Component - Implementation Schedule
R                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Time
tTentative Time Schedule for Implementation of the Three GMP Projects
Activity                    Yeaf I                 Year 2                 Year 3                 Year 4                 Year 5
Testanld Desigabn
raid Engineering
Maujor Equip cmerjnt rContracts |||||lllllll m             1 lII11                         
Production Systems
0
ksg'~w4 48 la



- 74 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
CHINA
PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
Proiect Milestones
Milestone                                        Target Date
A. General
Loan Effectiveness                                         September 1988
B. Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory
Major Process Packages:
Prequalification                                      June 1988
Contract Awards                                       January 1989
Approval of Preliminary Detailed Design               May 1989
Approval of Major Equipment Design                    September 1989
Approval of Final Design                              January 1990
Domestic Engineering CompleUion                            February 1990
Site Activities:
Site Preparation Completion                           July 1989
Commencement of Major Civil Works                     December 1989
Completion of Major Civil Works                       November 1990
Completion of All Civil Works                         January 1991
Commencement of Major Equipment Erection              July 1990
Completion of Erection                                August 1991
Completion of Equipment Testing                       September 1991
Completion of Commissioning                           December 1991
Others:
Submission of Recruitment and Training Program        June 1989
Submission of Detailed Implementation Schedule        June 1989
Recruitment of Key Marketing Staff                    December 1990
Establishment of ZYPF                                 December 1990
Preparation of Plant Safety Manual                    December 1990



~ 75                  ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4
Milestone                                    Target Date
C. GMP Companies
Selection of Design and Implementation Consultants         December 1988
Completion of Preliminary Detailed Design                  August 1989
Receipt of Major Equipment Design Data                     September 1989
Completion of Final Design                                 November 1990
Procurement:
Procurement Notice                                    October 1988
Major Equipment Contracts                             June 1989
Completion of Equipment Deliveries                    February 1991
Site Activities:
Site Preparation Completion                          March 1989
Commencement of Major Civil Works                     April 1989
Completion of Major Civil Works                       June 1990
Completion of All Civil Works                         January 1991
Commencement of Major Equipment Erection              December 1990
Completion of Erection                                July 1991
Completion of Equipment Testing and Commissioning   December 1991
Otherst
Submission of Training Program                        June 1989
Submission of Detailed Implementation Schedule        June 1989
Completion of Design of GMP Systems                   September 1990
Completion of Implementation of GMP Systems           December 1991
D.  Henan QCC
Initiation of Procurement                                  June 1988
Final Equipment Delivery                                   April 1989
Completion of QCC                                          June 1989



- 76 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 4
CHINA PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
Outlines of Recruitment and Training Programs
A. ZYPF
General
1.        ZYPF has agreed to develop an operational organizational structure,
recruitment plan and a training program for ZYPF operations, maintenance, GMP,
and marketing personnel by June 30, 1989 for review by the Bank. ZYPF has
agreed to implement the agreed program in consultation with the Bank.
Foreign Marketing
2.        Marketing Manager (Vitamin C) and his deputy will be recruited one
year before start-up and will receive three to six months training and
experience abroad (a longer period would be necessary for English language
training if the candidates are not fluent in English). It would be
advantageous for the manager and his deputy to gain experience by attachment
to a brokerage house dealing in Vitamin C and allied chemicals on an
international basis. Attachment to the procurement department of an
international pharmaceutical producer would also be useful.
3.        Marketing Manager (by Products) and his deputy will be recruited at
least one year in advance of plant start-up. The Candidates should be
experienced in the grain and animal feed trade in China. (It is understood
that a US/China joint venture for animal feed preparation is to be constructed
in Guangdong Province; suitable candidates or training may be available
through this source). The Marketing Manager and his deputy should travel
abroad to visit trading centerg and companies in the feed trade during the
training period.
Domestic Marketing
4.        Starch and Glucose Personnel (at least three) will be recruited not
later than one year before plant start-up; foreign training of at least six
months in application technology and technical service should be part of the
supply contract for the starch and glucose plant. The training will be
arranged to be carried out at the facilities of a wet corn miller.
5.        Vitamin C and sorbitol.  At least nine months prior to plant start-
up an experienced candidate will be identified and at this time the training
needs ascertained.
English Language
6.        An essential prerequisite for foreign training is fluency in English
language, both written and spoken, of the personnel sent for training
abroad. Courses will be identified in China, and the recruitment 1 -ogram
adjusted to the needs of language training.



- 77 -                          ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 4
Operations
7.        Starch and Glucose Process Unit Managers and other key staff from
each process unit (at least two) will be recruited at least one year prior to
plant start-up and receive foreign training in an operating plant for at least
three months. Key production staff will also be assigned to the foreign
supplier during the engineering and procurement phase so that they develop
intimate knowledge of the plant design and operation. The provision of
training will be a part of the plant supply contract. The foreign training
will be supplemented by courses conducted in China by foreign training staff
of the plant supplier to other production staff nearer the time of plant
start-up.
8.        Vitamin C and Sorbitol Process Unit Managers and other key staff
from each process unit (at least two) will be recruited a'- least one year
prior to plant start-up and receive training in a similar technology vitamin C
and sorbitol plant in China. Key staff will also be assigned to the Shanghai
Pharmaceutical Design Institute during the engineering and procurement phase
to familiarize them with the design and equipment. Every effort will also be
made to identify suitable foreign training courses.  The trained staff will
then carry out training courses at the plant site for other operations staff.
Maintenance
9.        Key maintenance staff (including staff for spare parts procurement
and management) will be recruited at an early enough stage to be involved in
the procurement of equipment and the specifications of spare parts
requirements and the installation of the spare parts management systems.
Training in maintenance systems and techniques on an operating plant (wet corn
milling, starch and glucose) will be a part of the plant supply contract.
Suppliers of critical equipment and instrumentation will provide training at
their factories on the specific equipment and maintenance procedures. The
staff trained abroad will develop and implement training programs for the
other maintenance staff. Foreign training will be supplemented by the plant
supplier holding maintenance training courses at the site using his own
training staff and vendor service men.
B. Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP)
General
10.       The program for GMP training, the outlines of which are detailed
below, will be developed and submitted by Zin Hua and Shanghai No. 4
Pharmaceutical Factories to the Bank for its review by June 30, 1989. The
agreed program will then be implemented in consultation with the Bank so that
the program is complete by the time the new facilities are ready for start-up.
Two GMP Companies
11.       In line with the recommendations from the audit carried out by
consultants, theoretical training in China followed by practical training
abroad (including overseas plants) will be carried out for managers and



- 78 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 4
foremen for production, maintenance, quality control (these staff to be
trained not only in quality control but also in quality assurance), and key
planning staff. For budget purposes, 5 staff from Shanghai No. 4 (vials and
capsules) and four staff from Xin Hua (tablets) are assumed to receive two
months theoretical training in China followed by four months training
abroad. This will be supplemented by periods of attachment of selected staff
to local joint venture pharmaceutical operations.
12.       The objective of the theoretical training (which will be provided by
foreign consultants) is to channel the trainee into his future job position in
the GMP plant. After completion of the course, the trainee should understand
the condition and theoretical requirements which apply to the position
concerned. Stress will be laid on the systems aspects of the work, including
the maintenance of appropriate documentation. Local staff will provide
language training, which will be essential for trainees who will carry out
supervised practical work abroad in plants manufacturing according to
international GMP. The trained staff will develop and establish training
courses in GMP for other enterprise staff.
13.       Arrangements are being made to train personnel in the joint venture
operations without charge. A number of firms in the international
pharmaceutical industry already participate in schemes to train personsnel
from pharmaceutical plants in developing countries; the training is normally
provided without fee on a goodwill basis. Hence the only foreign exchange
costs are for travel and subsistence expenses while the trainees are abroad.
As stated, foreign consultants will be required to provide theoretical
training inside China. The total cost of training in GMP for the two
enterprises is estimated at about US$700,000, of which about US$300,000 will
be in foreign exchange.
C. SPAC
14.       Associated with the above training programs is that planned by SPAC;
this program will be financed from sources other than the loan proceeds of the
Project.
15.       The purpose of the program is twofold, to acquaint senior management
in SPAC, Design Institutes, and Enterprises (a) with the theory and practice
of CMP; and (b) with modern management methods relevant to the Chinese
Pharmaceutical Industry in the context of the continuing economic reforms.
Course members will be selected from (i) senior management of SPAC; (ii)
members of design institutes associated with the introduction of GMP to the
Pharmaceutical Industry, including specialists in civil works, ventilation,
sterile environments, and formulation facilities; (iii) senior management of
selected pharmaceutical enterprises, including the general manager, the chief
of the production department, the chief of quality control, financial manager,
marketing manager, manager for raw materials and finished products storage.
In total, about 30 senior staff will participate in the training program.
16.       It is envisaged that a series of courses will be held annually.
Course I will be training in the theoretical aspects of GNP standards and
regulations with the aim of training teachers and advisers. Course II would



- 79 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
be the application of computers in management and information systems,
including emphasis on the computer systems used in the administration of
GMP. Course IV would involve training in general management methods and
techniques including organization structures, systems and methods. Course V
would be for training in financial control and accounting methods.
17.       Those involved in GMP and marketing would carry out both theoretical
and practical work in overseas pharmaceutical companies and other relevant
insLitutions (design, regulatory companies and other relevant institutions
(design, regulatory, brokers, pr 9curement agencies), and in selected Joint
Ventures in China. All participants will need to be adequately fluent in both
written and spoken English; this will necessitate English language training
courses for those participants who are not currently fluent in English.
18.       The annual costs of this program are estimated at about US$400,000,
of which US$300,000 will be foreign exchange costs.



- 80 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4
CHINA
PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
Terms of Reference (T.O.R.) for
Technical Assistance for Introduction of GMP
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Background
1.        The Chinese pharmaceutical industry consists of some 400 manufactur-
ing units producing traditional Chinese medicines, and about 840 factories
producing western-style drugs. Few Chinese pharmaceutical plants meet inter-
national Good Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Practice (GMP) standards. The
Chinese authorities are aware of these deficiencies and have set up an
industry-wide program to introduce GMP and to raise standards to international
levels by the year 2000. Pilot GMP audits have already been carried out on a
small number of plants; the audit recommendations are now to be implemented in
two of these factories--the Xin Hua Pharmaceutical Factory in Shandong
Province and the Shanghai No. 4 Pharmaceutical Factory. At Xin Hua, the
audits recommended that a new building should be erected and equipment
installed for the production of three billion tablets per annum; ancillary
storage facilities should also be erected. At Shanghai, the audit recommended
that a new building should be erected and equipment installed for the
production of 120 million vials and 75 million capsules per annum, as well as
a new quality control laboratory. At both facilities, the audits recommended
that the materials management, maintenance, quality controls and production
administration systems should be reviewed and upgraded to international GMP
requirements and that training of appropriate personnel in CGP should also be
carried out.
B. Objectives
2.        The purpose of the consultancy assignment is (a) to assist
the managements of the two companies in the design and implementation of
projects to erect new buildings and install new formulation capacity in these
plants; (b) to train both management and workers so that the facilities will
be operated and maintained according to international GMP standards; and
(c) introduce new production and quality control systems necessary for GMP
standards to be reached and maintained.
3.        In the context of this project, the GMP standards to be adopted are
those accepted by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).



- 81 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 4
C. Approval
4.        To achieve the above objectives, the consultant will be required to
work closely with the managements of the two factories and with the Shanghai
Pharmaceutical Industry Design Institute (SPIDI) which will provide design
services for the project. Since the consultants will be providing services to
both GMP companies which will simultaneously be implementing these projects,
the closest coordination will be required to avoid bottlenecks in the use of
consultants' resources.
II. SCOPE OF WORK
A. Project Management Services
5.        The project management arrangements for the two projects will in-
clude project management teams at each factory and a supervising function by
the State Pharmaceutical Administration of China (SPAC). Each project manage-
ment team will have a full-time local Project Manager who will be responsible
for implementation of the Project. The Consultants will provide support to
each of the Project Managers. Duties will include:
(a) assisting the Project Manager in overall planning, organization and
management of the projects;
(b) reviewing the feasibility reports and arranging criteria for the
basic and detailed work according to GNP standards;
(c) coordinating the services of local and foreign experts;
(d) monitoring basic and detailed design work;
(e) assisting in preparation of bid documents, reviewing the final bid
documents and assisting throughout the bid evaluation stage,
negotiations, drafting of contracts regarding construction, process
machinery and equipment;
(f) preparing overall procurement plans;
(g) monitoring construction work as well as delivery of machinery and
equipment;
(h) organizing construction supervision;
(i) maintaining appropriate cost control and reporting;
(j) assisting in the planning and implementation of the training
progra&s; and
(k) together with the project management staff, contributing to the
overall implementation of the recommendations set forth in the GMP
Audits and the feasibility reports.



- 82 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 4
B. Design and Engineering Services
6.        The basic and detailed design will be undertaken by SPIDIO
7.        Pharmaceutical design and engineering advisory services should be
provided by consultants as follows:
(a)  reviewing basic and det' led design;
(b) assisting in supervision of construction and of installation of
process machinery and equipment;
(c) assisting in validaLioln of the production processes and the final
products; and
(d) providing back-up services in other fields that may be requested by
the project management staff, e.g., identification of procurement
sources, assistance in collecting price quotations, inspections and
performance tests of new machinery and equipment.
C.  Review and Upgrading of Production Control Systems
8.        Consultants will review and upgrade or redesign the following pro-
duction control systems, in order to reach FDA GMP standards. Together with
plant management, consultants will then install the new systems:
(a) Materials Management (Master Formulas, etc.));
(b) Maintenance;
(c) Quality Control; and
(d) Production Administration (batch production records etc.).
D. Training
9.        The project management staff will be responsible for the development
of appropriate training programs and the implementation of the training acti-
vities which will be required.
10.       Consultants will assist the project management staff in the training
functions by:
(a) assisting in preparation of detailed training programs at each
plant;
(b) planning and carrying out training in the principles of GMP in
China;
(c) planning, organizing and supervising the carrying out of practical
work abroad for 14 key personnel (managers and foreman for



- 83 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 4
pro,iction, maintenance, quality control and planning staff) from
the two plants. The consultants will be required to assist in
arranging for cooperation agreements between the Chinese factories
and suitable Western pharmaceutical companies in order to reach the
highest possible quality in the practical training arrangement.
11.       The objective of training in GMP principles is to channel the
trainees into their future job positions in the GMP formulation plants. After
completion of the course, the trainees should understand the GMP principles
which apply to the position concerned. Stress will be laid on the systems
aspect of the work, including the maintenance of appropriate documentation.
This course should last about two months. Practical training abroad in plants
meeting international GMP standards should take up to four months. The work
many be supplemented by periods of attachment of selected staff to local joint
venture pharmaceutical operations. Arrangements for this part of the training
is being made by SPAC.
E. Man-months
12.       It is estimated that a total of about 36 man-months of consultants'
services will be required for all the above tasks. Consultants may, however,
make their own assessment of the actual services needed. Consultants shall
indicate in their proposal the following for each of the tasks:
(a) total man-months proposed to be employed;
(b) person (or persons) proposed to be employed indicating the
curriculum vitae(s), and period for which each will be available;
(c) bar chart including the proposed dates of commencement and comple-
tion of the task, period for review, preparation of proposals, im-
plementation of proposals, training of staff, the availability of
personnel for the task;
(d) detailed work program;
(e) program for transfer of skills and know-how and training of plant
staff; and
(f) assistance expected from the GMP companies specific to the taks.
C. Suggested Time Schedule
13.       August 1988                    Invitation to tender
December 1988                 Contract award
September 1989                Program start
F. Language
14.       English shall be the governing language in respect of this assign-
ment. All Consultant's personnel shall be fluent in English. All reports,
communication and presentations shall be in English.



-84 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
Capital Cost Table
Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Tctal
-     Y million----- US$ million -
Land and Initial Utilities           72.6      0.0    72.6   19.5        0.0   19.!;
Er-ginieering Design                  4.5      0.0      4.5    1.2       0.0    1.2
Licenses and Knowhow                  0.0    24.6    24.6    0.0         6.6    6.6
Equipment                            16.6   159.4   176.0    4.5        42.3   46.8
Spare Parts                           0.7      8.6      9.3    0.2       2.3    2.5
Materials for Civils                 13.5    38.5    51.9    3.6        10.9   14.5
Materials for Installation           10.8    56.5    67.3    2.9        15.2   18.1
Freight, Insurance, Inland
Transportation                      1.5      8.2     9.7    0.4        2.2    2.6
Civil Works (excluding materials)  20.1        0.0    20.1    5.4        0.0    5.4
Construction and Erection
(+ insurance)                      26.4      0.0    26.4    7.1       0.0    7.1
Site Preparation                      4.1      0.0      4.1    1.1       0.0    1.1
Project Management                   13.8      3.0    16.8    3.7        0.8    4.5
Training                              0.7      2.2      2.9    0.2       0.6    0.8
Start-up and Commissioning            1.9      0.0      1.9    0.5       0.0    0.5
Total Base Cost                  187.1   301.0   488.1   50.3        80.9  131.2
Physical Contingencies               11.5    30.1    41.6    3.1         8.1   11.2
Price Contingencies                  24.0    81.7   105.7    2.6         9.2   11.8
Total Installed Cost             222.6   412.8   635.4   56.0        98.2  154.2
Note:  Physical and price contingencies have not been applied for cost of land
and initial utilities.



- 85 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
CHINA PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
Shanghai No. 4 Pharmaceuticals Plant
Summary of Capital Cost Table
In RMB Mill                In US$ Mill
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Design and Engineering         0.41     0.82      1.23     0.11      0.22     0.22
Equipment and Materials        1.08    11.44    12.52      0.29      3.07     3.36
Spare Parts                    0.00     0.56      0.56     0.00     0.15      0.15
Freight, Insurance,
Inland Transportation        0.67     0.59      1.26     0.18     0.16      0.34
Civil Works and Erection       5.06     0.59      5.65     1.36     0.16      1.52
Project Management             0.00     0.82      0.82     0.00     0.22      0.22
Training                       0.45     1.08      1.52     0.12     0.29      0.41
Total Base Cost             7.25    15.08    22.33      l.',.5   4.05      6.00
Physical Contingencies         0.73     1.51      2.23     0.19     0.40      0.60
Price Escalation               2.25     4.72      6.97     0.16     0.46      0.63
Total Installed Cost       10.23    21.31    31.54      2.31     4.92      7.23



- 86 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
CHINA
PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
Xin Hua Pharmaceuticals Plant
Summary of Capital Cost Table
In RMB Mill                In USS Mill
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Design and Engineering          0.67     0.87      1.54     0.18      0.23      0.41
Equipment and Materials         0.82    12.05    12.87      0.22      3.24      3.46
Spare Parts                     0.00     0.49      0.49     0.00      0.13      0.13
Freight, Insurance,
Inland Transportation        0.67      0.56     1.23      0.18      0.15     0.33
Civil Works and Erection        7.81     0.98      8.79     2.10      0.26      2.36
Project Management              0.15     0.87      1.01     0.04      0.23      0.27
Training                        0.45     0.38      0.82     0.12      0.10      0.22
Total Base Cost             9.89    15.32    25.22       2.66      4.12     6.78
Physical Contingencies          0.99     1.53      2.52     0.27      0.41     0.68
Price Escalation                2.59     5.02      7.61     0.22      0.47     0.69
Total Installed Cost       13.47    21.88    35.35       3.15      5.00     8.15



- 87 -
ANNEX 10
CHINA
PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Asia Region
Disburse-              Cumula-                  Industry
ment                  tive         Z          Profile
IBRD      Quarter          in        Z of      Disburse-  Cumula-           z
FY       Ending        Quarter      Total       ment        tive      Cumulative
1989     30 Sep 88         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0           0.0
31 Dec 88        0.9         0.7       0.9         0.7           0.7
31 Mar 89        3.3         2.6       4.2         3.3           3.3
30 Jun 89        6.1         4.8      10.3         8.0           8.0
1990     30 Sep 89         8.5        6.7       18.8        14.8          14.8
31 Dec 89        8.5         6.7      27.3        21.4          21.4
31 Mar 90        8.4         6.6      35.7        28.1          28.1
30 Jun 90        9.1         7.2      44.8        35.3          35.3
1991     30 Sep 90       12.8        10.1       57.6        45.4          45.4
31 Dec 90       12.8        10.1      70.4        55.4          55.4
31 Mar 91       11.1         8.7      81.5        64.2          64.2
30 Jun 91        7.8         6.1      89.3        70.3          70.3
1992     30 Sep 91       11.0         8.7      100.3        79.0          79.0
31 Dec 91       11.0         8.7     111.3        87.7          87.7
31 Mar 92        8.2         6.5     119.5        94.1          94.1
30 Jun 92        1.8         1.4     121.3        95.5          95.5
1993     30 Sep 92        2.5         2.0      123.8        97.5          97.5
31 Dec 92        2.5         2.0     126.3        99.4          99.4
31 Mar 93        0.7         0.6     127.0       100.0         100.0



- 88 -
ANNEX 11I
Page 1 of 4
CHINA
PHRAMACEUTICALS PROJECT
Equipment to be Procured Under the Loan
A. Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory
1.        Major packages to be let under this component are given below; the
smaller packages will be defined after deailed engineering for the items has
been finalized. Packages include licenses (where applicable), all engineering
design, all foreign supplied equipment and materials, design and specification
for items to be supplied by ZYPF PO, construction and erection supervision,
start-up and commissioning supervision, and training of ZYPF staff in opera-
tions and maintenance.
Starch Plant
Corn Oil Plant
Glucose Plant
Sorbitol Plant
Vitamin C Purification
Waste Water Treatment
Steam Generation
Chilled Water System
Compressed Air System
2.        CMP Companies.  Equipment to be procured under the loan includes the
following major items:
B. Xin Hua Pharmaceuticals Factory
a.   Dispensing Area
Four batches per shift shall be dispensed. Two dispensing stations
are required, each containing:  '                                 t
1 balance, capacity 1,000 kg
1    t         is       50 kg
1    "         "         1 kg
Recording instruments will be included.
b.   Granulation Area
Four batches per shift shall be granulated. Two granulation
stations are required, each containing the following equipment:
1 Mill
1 Granulator
1 Double cone mixer 1,500 1
1 Preparation vessel for paste



- 89 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 4
c.   Compression Area
Three billion tablets shall be compressed per year, i8.e., five
million tablets per shift.
4 Tablet Pressers
5 dedusters
Tools
d.   Coating Area
Four hundred million tablets shall be coated per year, i.e., 1.3
million tables per day.
1 Table coater
e.   Packaging Area
Three billion tablets shall be packed per year, i.e., five million
per shift.
It is anticinated that 50% will be packed in glass bottles and 501
in blisters. To meet tn.is requirement:
One packaging line with a capacity of 3,500 glass bottles per hour
wil be installed containing the following equipment:
- Slatcounter Filler
- Cotton insertion machine
- Capping machine
- Labeling machine
Two blister lines with a capacity of about 200,000 tablets per
hour. Each line should have the following equipment:
- blister pack machine
f.   In-process and Pilot Plant Laboratory
Tablet in-process instruments
g.   Stores
The stores shall be equipped with racks for pallet hand_ing.
Special label-printing equipment is required.
Racks for 5,300 pallets on six floors
Lable printer
Fork lifts 1.5 ton, 3 pcs.
Wooden pallets, 8,000



- 90 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 4
h.   Naterial Handling Equipment
Net Cages for dispensing area, 50 cages
Stainless steel containers 200 1, 150 pcs.
Stainless steel hoppers for ditto, 8 pcs.
Lifting devices, 3 pcs.
Racks for 200 pallets
Hand lorries, 20 pcs.
Plastic pallets, 200 pcs.
Plastic containers, 60 1, 1,000 containers, 60 1, 1,000 pcs.
C. Shanghai No. 4 Pharmaceuticals Factory
3.   a.   Washing ARea for Vials
2 Vial washers, 25,000/hour
2 Tunnel ovens, 25,000/hour
Rotary tables
4 Rubber Stopper washers, 9,000/hour
b.   Filling and Capper Area
6 Filling machines
6 Capping machines
c.   Labeling and Final Packing
2 labeling machines, 20,000/hour
d.   Other Equipment
1 Sterilizer
1 Distilled water unit, 1,300 lit/hour
e.   Capsule Production Machinery and Equipment
1 Capsule filling machine
1 Blister pack machine
f.   Granulation Equipment
Mill
Mixer
Final Mixer
Drying Cabinet
Scales
Vessels
g.   In-process Laboratory
In-Process instrumentation



- 91 -
ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 4
h.   Stores
The stores will be equipped with racks for pallet handling.
Racks
Wooden pallets
i.    Material Handling Equipment
Transport boxes
Lifting devices
Fork lifts
Entresols, hoppers
Miscellaneous material handling equipment
D. Henan Provincial Quality Control Center
4.        The following equipment is to be procured under the loan:
Nuclear magnet resonance spectrograph         1
Mass Spectrograph                             1
Infra-red apectrophotometer                   1
Ultraviolet spectrophotometer                 1
High-efficient liquid phase chromatograph   1
Cas-phase chromatograph                       1
Fluorospectrophotometer                       1
Thin layer scanner                            1
Automatic biochemical analyer                 1
Multi-channel recorder                        1
Total automatic titrator                      3
Universal microscope                          1
Hypervelocity centrifuger                     2
1/100 thousand total automatic
analytical balance                         10



- 92 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
Assumptions Used in Financial Analysis
A. ZYPF
1.        Financial projections have been carried out in current yuan through
to project completion in 1992 and then in constant terms using projected
domestic inflation rates for local inputs and outputs and international
inflation rates for imported inputs. The projections for the respective
inflation rates are as follows:
Year                       Domestic                      Foreign
I                                _______________--- --- --- --  (z)  ----------------
1988                         8.0                           3.0
1989                         7.0                           3.0
1990                         6.5                           3.0
1991                         6.5                           4.0
1992                         6.5                           4.0
1993                         6.5                           4.0
2.        For the financial rate of return calculations, the cost and benefit
streams have been computed in constant December 1987 yuan with an exchange
rate of Y 3.72 per US$1.
3.        Production is scheduled to begin in 1992 with a capacity utilization
of 50X for all outputs. A 100Z-of-design-capacity utilization is projected
from 1993 onwards.
4.        Sales Revenues.  The financial prices in 1987 yuan have been projec-
ted on the basis of a detailed market analysis and are as follows:



- 93 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 3
1987 Yuan/MT             Design capacity (MT/yr)
Common starch                          998                         31,747
Modified starch                      1,900                         10,000
Dextrose monohydrate                 1,900                         15,000
Dextrose anhydrous                   2,850                         10,000
Sorbitol 50Z                         4,370                         20,448
Vitamin C (export)                  36,100                          3,000
Vitamin C (domestic)                36,100                          2,000
Hydrol                                 200                         10,658
Gluten meal                          1,116                          7,494
Gluten feed                            372                         39,846
Corn oil                             2,800                          3,846
Sodium sulphate                        160                          2,767
5.        Production Cost.  The plant is expected to process 150,000 MT of
corn feedstock annually at design capacity. Consumption of other inputs are
based on engineering estimates.
6.        Fixed assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over a 15-year
period.
7.        Debt Service.  Proceeds of the World Bank loan would be onlent to
ZYPF at an interest rate equal to 105X of the variable interest rate on the
Bank loan to GOC for a period of 15 years, including a 5-year grace period.
Normal commitment charges would apply. Interest on the domestic loan would be
at a rate of 3.6X for a period of 8 years, including a 5-year grace period.
No commitment charge is apjlied on the domestic loan.
8.        Product Tax.  A product tax is levied on gross sales revenues.  The
following rates apply:
Product tax rate
Common starch, mod .fied starch and corn oil                  5Z
Sorbitol, sodium s .phate, dextrose and
Vitamin C                                                  1OX
Hydrol                                                       15X
No product taxes apply to gluten meal and gluten feed.



~ 94 -                      ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 3
9.        Profit Tax.  The taxable profit is calculatcd after netting out
product tas and debt service (both interest and principal repayment) from
gross profit. The tax rate is 55%.
10.       Working Capital Requirements.  Inventory has been calculated on the
following basis: two m&aths of corn feedstock, raw materials and finished
product.  Accounts receivable have been assumed at 45 days of annual sales.
Accounts payable are calculated at 60 days of total raw material and feedstock
and 30 days of the utility, wages, maintenance and management overhead bill.
11.       Equity.  The value of land and infrastructure provided at no cost by
the province to ZYPF has been valued at Y 72.6 million and considered as a
notional equity contribution.
B.  GMP Companies
12.       Projections of the financial performance of the two GMP companies
are based on the current production and operating levels. The GMP component
is not credited with extra production, nor for any significant cost
reductions, the main benefit being an ability to continue to market products
overseas and to prepare for domestic sales when the Government introduces
mandatory Good Manufacturing Practice in the sector. In both cases, however,
the impact of ongoing capital programs is taken into account in additional
production and sales in 1988-90.



-95-                              ANNEX 13
CHINA
PlAPMACEUTWCALS PROJECT
ZHONG YUAN PHARMACEUTICAL FACTORY
Proiected Income Statement
tfn currentx MO MIL11on)
Ca acity        Price        1992   1993   1994   1995   1996  1997
(A91YR)   ((1987 RMB/MT)
SALES REVENUE
Common Starch           31,747          998        22.1   47.1   47.1   47.1   47.1  47.1
Modified Starch         10,000        1,900        13.3   28.2   28.2   28.2   28.2  28.2
Dextrose Monohydrate   15.000         1,900        19.9   42.4   42.4   42.4   42.4  42.4
Dextrose Anhydrate      10.000        2 850        19.9   42.4   42.4   42.4   42.4  42.4
Sorbitol 502            20,448        4,370        62.4  132.8  132.8  132.8  132.8 132.8
Vitamin C (Domestic)    2,000        36,100        50.4  107.3  107.3  107.3  107.3 107.3
Vitamin C (Export)       3,000       36,100        75.6  161.0  161.0  161.0  161.0 161.0
Hydrol                  10,568          200         1.5    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1   3.1'
Refined Corn Oil         3 846        2,80o          7.5   16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0  16.0
Gluten Meal              7,494        1.116         5.8   12.4   12.4   12.4   12.4  12.4
Gluten Feed             39,846          372        10.3   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0  22.0
Sodium Sulfate           2,767          160         0.3    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7   0.7
Total Sales Revenue                               289.0  615.5  615.5  615.5  615.5 615.5
Less:  Yroauct Sales Tax                             -Z7"  -5T77  -5377  -3377   5377 -5377
Net Sales Revenue                                 263.8  561.8  561.8  561.8  561.8 561.8
Production Costs
corn veedstocx                                     72.8  109.7  109.7  109.7  109.7 109.7
Domestic Raw Materials                             30.0   45.1   45.1   45.1   45.1  45.1
Imported Raw Materials                              4.8    7.3    7.3    7.3    7.3   7.3
Utilities: Steam                                   12.3   17.8   17.8   17.8   17.8  17.8
Electricity                             6.6    9.6    9.6    9.6    9.6   9.6
Water & Other                           14.0   20.3   20.3   20.3   20.3  20.3
Wages & Benefits                                    0.9    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3   1.3
Maintenance                                        17.9   25.9   25.9   25.9   25.9  25.9
Management Overhead                                11.8   25.7   25.7   25.7   25.7  25.7
Depreciation                                       34.2   34.2   34.2   34.2   34.2  34.2
Amortization                                        1.0   15.1   15.1   15.1   15.1  15.1
Total Production Costs                           212.4  312.0  312.0  312.0  312.0 312.0
Gross Profit                                       51.4  249.9  249.9  249.9  249.9 249.9
Less: Interest Charges                             25.4   51.1   47.1   41.9   36.9  32.0
Net Income Before Tax                              26.0  198.8  202.7  208.0  212.9 217.9
Less: Principal Paymemts                            0.0   35.6   71.2   71.2   71.2  71.2
Net Taxable Income                                 26.0  163.2  131.5  136.8  141.8 146.7
Less: Taxes on Income                              14.3   89.8   72.3   75.2   78.0  80.7
Net Income After Tax                               11.7  109.0  130.4  132.7  135.0 137.2
Less: Distribution to Local Authorities             1.7   16.4   19.6   19.9   20.2  20.6
Net Income Retained bv EnterDrise                   9.9   92.7  110.8  112.8  114.7 116.6
Ratios
Profit before tax a 2 of sales                     19.02  44.02  44.02  44.OZ  44.02 44.02
Debt service coverage ratio                         2.8    2.4    1.9    2.0    2.0   2.1



96 -
AEX 14
4InA
PHARUACEUTICALS PROJECT
ZHON YUAN PHARMACEUTICAL FACTORY
Prolected 8alance Shet
196    1969   1mo0   1991   192   199    1994   1995   19             1997
ASSETS
Cu-rreont Aesento
cash -   Brnk                    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.5    8.8   49.4  108.5    165.4   226.8
Aecount, recuivable              0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        .C   70.2   70.2   70.2        70.2    70.2
Inventories
Raw swtarIola                    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   17.9   27.0   27.0   27.0           27.0    27.0
Work In Progre                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   14.8   21.9   21.9   21.9           21.9    21.9
Finished Goods                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   15.2   22.3   22.6   22.7           22.6    22.6
Other                            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    4.6    6.5    6.5    6.5            6.5     6.5
Total Current Asget                0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   67.8  151.7  197.6  264.6    818.6   874.4
Fixed Aaet.
Grose FIxod A8e6t               78.8  280.6  482.1  588.2  615.4  649.7  668.9  716.1    742.4   786.6
Leee Aceemulated Oeprciation    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   84.2   68.5  102.7   186.9    171.2   205.4
Net Fixed Assets                  78.8  280.6  482.1  588.2  5681.2  581.2  581.2  561.2    581.2   591.2
Othor Long Term AWsete (Net)    H75  -17:6  -ui1  11575   S117  TIn    1517   YE"             1577    W7I
Total Assets                   99.6  267.8  496.7  597.0  621.0  685.8  916.6  956.7  1.002.S  1,048.2
LIAB1L m  S    QUT
Current LIObiLTl-
Account. Pryable                 0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   10.5   16.7   16.7   15.7           15.7    15.7
Taxes Payable                    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.2    7.5    6.0    6.8            6.5     6.7
Other                            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.8    4.1    4.1    4.1            4.1     4.1
Short Te De*bt                   OdO    0.0    0.0    0.0   26.1    7.2    0.0    0.0            0.0     0.0
Current Maturitles               0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   86.6   71.2   71.2   71.2           71.2    71.2
Total Current Liabilitlee          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   76.2  105.6   97.0   97.2           97.4    97.6
Lono-T*rn D b
ro4u Long Tre  Debt             27.0  195.2  426.1  624.4  695.1  711.6  711.6  711.6    711.6   711.6
Lea": Repaymnt.                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   86.6  100.6  177.9    249.1   820.3
Current Maturitlee         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   84.6   71.2   71.2   71.2           71.2    71.2
Net Lona Term Debt              26.0  195.2  426.1  624.4   WJ.3  605.0  588.6  462.8    891.6   820.8
Eculty
Total Provincial Equity         72.6   72.6   72.6   72.6   71.6   70.6   69.6   68.6           67.6    66.6
Retained Earnings                0.0    0.0   (0.0)  (0.0)  10.9  104.6  216.4  880.8    446.0   568.6
Total Eauity                   72.6   72.6   72.6   72.6   82.6  176.2  286.0  898.9    513J6   O80.2
Total Llibilltls & Eculty        96.6  267.6  498.7  697.0  8210  88S.   916.8  968.7  1.002.6 1,048.2
Ratios
Cu-Fe*nt Ratio                  NA      NA       0.0    0.0    1.1    1.4    2.0    2.6          8.2     8.8
Debt/Equity Ratio               26.74  72.28  65.15  69.11  88.12  77.28  65.85  65.47    48.57   88.67



- 97 -
ANNEX 15
CHINA
PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
ZHONG YUAN PHARMACEUTICAL FACTORY
Proiected Statement of Source and Application of Fund
1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
SOURCE OF FUNDS
Net income Atter Tax        0.0    0.0   (0.0)  (0.0)  11.7  109.0  130.4  132.7  135.0 137.2
Add:  Depreciation          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   34.2   34.2   34.2   34.2   34.2  34.2
Amortization          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.0   15.1   15.1   15.1   15.1  15.1
Interest Charges      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   24.2   49.7   49.7   41.9   36.9  32.0
NET CASH FROM OPERATIONS      0.0    0.0   (0.0)  (0.0)  71.2  208.0  226.5  223.9  221.2 218.5
Long Term Funas
EquIty                     72.6
Long Term Debt
Proposed World Bank
Loan                   11.0  100.0  165.3  165.7   52.4
Other Domestic LT Loans 15.0   68.2   58.9   22.4    3.2
TOTAL LONG TERM FUNDS        98.6  168.2  224.2  188.1   55.6
INCREASE IN SHORT TERM
DEBT                        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   28.1    7.2    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
TOTAL SOURCES                98.6  168.2  224.2  188.1  154.9  215.2  226.5  223.9  221.2 218.5
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
increase In rvxed
Assets Project
Investment               93.3  157.5  201.3  151.0   32.3
Annual Renewals                                                 34.2   34.2   34.2   34.2  34.2
Total Increase in Fixed
assets                     93.3  157.5  201.3  151.0   32.3   34.2   34.2   34.2   34.2  34.2
Interest During
Construction                5.2   10.8   22.9   37.0   23.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
Debt Service                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   24.2   85.3  118.0  113.1  108.1 103.1
Change in Working
Capital                     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   72.5   79.1    8.6   (0.3)  (0.3) (0.3)
Profit Transfer to Local
Government                  0.0    0.0   (0.0)  (0.0)   1.7   16.4   19.6   19.9   20.2  20.6
Net Apvlications             98.6  168.2  224.2  188.1  154.1  215.0  180.4  166.9  162.3 157.6
Net Increase (Decrease)
in Cash                     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.9    0.2   46.1   57.0   58.9  60.8
Excess Cash at
Beginning of Year           0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.9    1.1   47.2  104.2 163.2
Excess Cash at End of
Year                        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.9    1.1   47.2  104.2  163.2 224.0
Debt Service Coverage
Ratio                      na     na      na     na      2.9    2.4    1.9    2.0    2.0   2.1



- 98 -                                  ANNEX 16
CHINA
PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
Zhonf Yuan Pharmaceutical Factory
Financial Rate of Return
Net       Net
Benefit   Benefit
Capital  Working   Fixed   Variable   Product    Sales   Income  Before    After
Year    Cost    Capital   Cost         Cost        Tax     Revenue    Tax   Income    Tax
1988     19.2                                                                 (19.2)    (19.2)
1989    136.3                                                                (136.3)   (136.3)
1990    163.6                                                                (163.6)   (163.6)
1991    115.2                                                                (115.2)   (115.2)
1992     23.1      51.9      38.6      88.3        18.1     207.0    10.2   (13.0)    (23.2)
1993               53.2      38.6    138.1         36.1      414.1    60.4   148.0        87.6
1994                5.8      38.6    138.1         36.1     414.1    48.7   195.5        146.8
1995                0.0      38.6    138.1         36.1     414.1    50.6   201.2        150.6
1996                0.0      38.6    138.1         36.1      414.1    52.4   201.2       148.8
1997                0.0      38.6    138.1         36.1     414.1    54.3   201.2        147.0
1998                0.0      38.6    138.1         36.1     414.1    56.1   201.2        145.1
1999                0.0      38.6    138.1         36.1     414.1    58.0   201.2        143.3
2000                0.0      38.6    138.1         36.1     414.1    59.8   201.2        141.4
2001                0.0      38.6    138.1         36.1     414.1    61.6   201.2        139.6
2002                0.0      38.6    138.1         36.1     414.1    63.5   201.2        137.8
2003                0.0      38.6    138.1         36.1     414.1    82.0   201.2        119.2
2004                0.0      38.6    138.1         36.1     414.1    96.1   201.2        105.1
2005                0.0      38.6    138.1         36.1      414.1    96.1   201.2       105.1
2006                0.0      38.6    138.1         36.1     414.1    96.1   201.2        105.1
2007             (583.9)    38.6    138.1          36.1     414.1    96.1   785.2        689.0
Financial Rate of Return                          262        202



- 99 -
ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
Assumptions Used in Economic Analysis
1.        The economic rate of return has been calculated in constant 1987
yuan terms. The economic life of the plant is assumed to be 15 years with a
salvage value of 10% of the original economic plant cost.
2.        Economic prices have been derived by applying the following conver-
sion factors to the financial prices for capital and production costs.
Item                                               Conversion factor
Local equipment                                            1.34
Construction                                               1.08
Technical labor                                            4.00
Unskilled labor                                            0.25
Managerial/administrative labor                            1.00
Electricity                                                1.50
Steam                                                      1.30
Rail transport                                             2.05
3.        Economic price projections for corn feedstock have been derived from
the Bank's projections for international corn prices. Internal rail transport
is valued at Y 0.656/ton.
4.        Selling prices for the project's outputs have been based on interna-
tional prices (ex-US port) in 1987 and adjusted by ocean freight from the
United States to China valued at Y 86.5/ton and inland freight valued at
Y 0.656/ton. The 1987 prices have been projected to the following years,
taking into account corn's estimated contribution to each output's production
costs and projected trends in international corn prices. The formula used is
as follows:
Pt =Pt = 1 ( 1 + X (ct/ct         M     
Where:
Pt    =  economic price of output in year t
Pt-l = economic price of output in year t - 1
Ct    =  economic ex-factory price of corn in year t
t-.l = economic ex-factory price of corn in year t-l
X     =  percentage contribution of corn to outputs production
cost (expressed as a decimal).



- 100 -
ANNEX 17
Pale 2 of 2
5.        The table shows the percentage contribution of corn to each outputs
production cost and the resulting output prices for the first two years of
production, 1992 and 1993.
1992       1993      % age of corn cost to
(Rmb/ton         tot-I production cost
Corn (ex-factory)                      418           420              100
Commercial Starch                      1,027       1,030               66
Modified Starch                        1,247       1,250               57
Dextrose Monohydrate                   1,928       1,931               47
Dextrose Anhydrous                     4,865       4,875               48
Sorbitol                               2,725       2,731               53
Hydrol                                 1,078       1,083              100
Vitamin C                              43,819    43,836                 9
Gluten Feed                            1,610       1,617              100
G"luten Meal                           446           448              100
Corn Oil                               4,211       4,229              100



- 101 -                  ANNEX 18
CHINA PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
Zhong Yuan Pharmaceutical Factory
Economic Rate of Return
Capital     Working    Fixed       Variable      Value of         Not
Year      Cost        Capital    Cost          Cost         Output        Benefit
1988      22.4                                                             (22.4)
1989     150.5                                                            (150.5)
1990     174.6                                                            (174.6)
1991     118.4                                                            (118.8)
1992      23.1         51.9       40.2         91.6         246.9           40.0
1993                   53.2       40.2        143.1         494.7          258.1
1994                    5.8       40.2        143.1         495.6          30G.5
1995                    0.0       40.2        143.1         496.5          313.1
1996                    0.0       40.2        143.1         497.8          314.5
1997                    0.0       40.2        143.1         499.2          315.8
1998                    0.0       40.2        143.1         500.5          317.1
1999                    0.0       40.2        143.1         501.8          318.5
2000                    0.0       40.2        143.1         503.2          319.8
2001                    0.0       40.2        143.1         503.2          319.8
2002                    0.0       40.2        143.1         503.2          319.8
2003                    0.0       40.2        143.1         503.2          319.8
2004                    0.0       40.2        143.1         503.2          319.8
2005                    0.0       40.2        143.1         503.2          319.8
2006                    0.0       40.2        143.1         503.2          319.8
2007                 (583.9)      40.2        143.1         503.2          903.7
Economic Rate of Return 342



- ~--- ----.-----
r _
l    a- OTw CI
''   :   O  n  :n : aj s i HL~~~~I  :
_                         I
- ZOI      I-



-103-                             ANNEX 20
CHINA
PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
List of Documents in the Project File
Reference
A.   Developing Countries Pharmaceutical Industries in the World Context (July
1987) by Sema-Metra Conseil
B.   Feasibility Study:  Zhong Yuan Pharmaceuticals Factory at Zhengzhou City,
Henan Province (July 1987) by Davy McKee Corporation
C.   GMP Audits in China (December 1987) by The Consultants for Trade and
Industry (CTI, Sweden)



U. S.S. R.
h'fJ    '   ~\l<Ni  N
UJ.    S.  S.  R...K                                                       -   o -                                                  /'.
x,, ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ A t       M      N a  O  L I A                                           tL                              , 
__~~~~~ /                                                   1                                                                        NC ._/i
[;,  s      ,         ''s     b  A¢\Xn   z             G'1    /                                                   /                                             StAt
_ v /        N    ~    -di    a/7    Ar    tS~   Pro>tror3JI 
TI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                                                                                                                             k
j       ftE                          r                                          REPUBLIC
MONO   CLI N                                G       H A  I  ......  A   N '           KREU
I                                                    /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
NNl,,,,,llF -  S                                    '-,        -           t          -   -C -  2o0psUAN10rY  3-   <  U _tANGSU
SI/Cht_~ ~ ~                i 40r' z      A                                                                                           -, N IH  t    t     t t    
o' /t                                                                                                    C                   -                         DEMOCRATICV    X Of t
.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k"
C  N                                                         N H  IV    hr N.                                                                                         A
TO~~~N o.oaoyoop.-oaoy                                                                       0~ h .   7    EJ
PHAMACUTIAL  PROJECTdez                                                              K         S           j              j3nxo
A ~ ~   ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     1j P.1     LAO-FP1'Sp
It  ~        zlo 800   ZhL 80           p3     0                          HIADI
,yoto,ooO Noflo.-y5580J                                                                                                         i/ rN//SC]      L                                            N  V M B R I    8
_    - ~~~~~~~~~~Rd
P-"                                                                       -N.             /                       0.1.   - lo-ih
p-)  - b-d-.,I 
CHINA~~~~~~~~~~~~tULPHLPIE
Rallytodo                                                                                  N~>2~,.Ž 0/THAALAAD
-                                                         ?CUAICDCNO'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OEMR18



PHARMACEUTICALS PROJECT
ZHONG YUAN PHARMACEUTICALS FACTORY
PROPOSED  PROJEC I    ROADS
Lz,FACTORY SITE        RAILROADS
BUILOINGS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0t~hO
AC'ESS  RAILROAD                                                       R MILI,teGli f
WELLS                VILLAGESS,.\>' ', 
4  EXISTING WELLS
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DTAC                     ENTRANCE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PR LL                                        i E1            I n
\                    t wr        !' \ t   l_{,C3[2 2g,/                                          t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NT
.  -t    C i _        }  |ENIPbNCb  FNtPANCX         ,   1t    ,                       /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.                              1  11 . R    /   rs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ormito
;W ~~~~~~~~~~~>~~~Chmia Eqipe                                                                                A - .ui -:Um
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ei shopA                                                                                     Fa    ze
ts''   + e                                                                                   =    I-  l.  ,   A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wohos
L  T  t t-   iL-  l                                                                                                      JALARY 19R
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n



