Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2943-0 CHA
2943-1
2943-2
(Pharmaceuticals Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
HENAN PROVINCE
Dated December 22, 1988
LOAN NUMBER 2943-0 CHA
2943-1
2943-2
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 22, 1988, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HENAN PROVINCE (Henan Province).
WHEREAS: by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's Republic 
of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred twenty-seven 
million dollars ($127,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that Henan Province agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS Henan Province, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the several terms 
defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the  General  
Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Henan Province declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part A of the Project through the Zhong Yuan Factory Preparation Office and 
Part B of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and pharmaceutical industry 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for Parts A and B of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Henan Province shall otherwise agree, Henan Province shall 
carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Part A of the Schedule to this Agreement.
(c)
In order to assist in carrying out of Part A of the Project, Henan 
Province shall:
(i)
not later than December 31, 1990, cause the Zhong Yuan Factory to 
be established in 
a form and with functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Bank; and
(ii)
upon the establishment of the Zhong Yuan Factory, enter into a 
Transfer and 
Operations Agreement with the Zhong Yuan Factory, on 
terms and conditions which 
shall have been agreed with the 
Bank, including those set forth in Part B of the 
Schedule to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the 
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. Henan Province shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Parts A and B of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Henan Province shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange 
views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan.
(b)
Henan Province shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or  threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by Henan Province of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Zhong Yuan Factory
Section 3.01. Henan Province shall cause the Zhong Yuan Factory to carry on its 
operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial 
and pharmaceutical industry practices under  the  supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Page  3
Section 3.02. Henan Province shall cause the Zhong Yuan Factory to at all times 
to operate and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from 
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all 
in accordance with sound engineering, financial and pharmaceutical industry practices.
Section 3.03. Henan Province shall cause the Zhong Yuan Factory to take out and 
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank 
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Henan Province shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate 
to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of Parts 
A and B of the Project of its departments or 
agencies, the Zhong 
Yuan Factory Preparation Office and the Zhong Yuan Factory 
responsible for carrying out Parts A and B of the Project; and
(ii)
cause the Zhong Yuan Factory to maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting 
practices its operations and financial 
condition.
 
(b)
Henan Province shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and the 
Zhong Yuan Factory's financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and 
expenses and related statements) for 
each  fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the Zhong Yuan Factory's 
financial statements for 
such year as so audited; and (B) the report of all such 
audits 
by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and 
financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Henan 
Province thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Henan 
Province thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Page  4
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall 
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For Henan Province:
Planning and Economic Commission
Building No. 3, Wei Er Road
Zhengzhou, Henan
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
2171 Zhengzhou China
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Henan 
Province, may be taken or executed by
the Director, Planning and Economic Commission or such other person or persons as the 
Director shall designate in writing, and Henan Province shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
HENAN PROVINCE
Page  5
By /s/ Han Xu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation of Part A of the Project
Part A:
Implementation Program for Part A of the Project
 
1.
Henan Province shall implement Part A of the Project through the Zhong Yuan 
Factory Preparation Office until the responsibilities for implementation have been 
legally transferred to the Zhong Yuan Factory pursuant to the Transfer and Operations 
Agreement.
2.
Henan Province shall furnish to the Bank for comment, by June 30, 1989, a 
recruitment and training program for Zhong Yuan Factory staff, including a marketing 
organization plan. Thereafter, Henan Province shall cause marketing staff for the 
Zhong Yuan Factory to be appointed one year prior to plant start-up, and shall cause 
the training under Part A.2 of the Project to be carried out in accordance with a 
program agreed with the Bank.
3.
Henan Province shall ensure that the Zhong Yuan Factory facilities will be 
constructed, and later operated by the Zhong Yuan Factory, in accordance with 
environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank. Henan Province shall cause a plant 
safety manual for hazardous materials and emergency procedures at least one year prior 
to plant start-up.
4.
Henan Province shall cause the Zhong Yuan Factory to comply with the following 
financial covenants:
(a)
Except as the Bank and Henan Province shall otherwise agree:
 
(i)
the Zhong Yuan Factory shall not incur any debt, unless the net 
revenues of the 
Zhong Yuan Factory for the fiscal year 
immediately preceding the date of such 
incurrence or for a later 
twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such 
incurrence, 
whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated 
maximum debt service requirements of the Zhong Yuan Factory for any succeeding 
fiscal year on all debt of the Zhong Yuan Factory, including the 
debt to be 
incurred;
 
(ii)
commencing January 1, 1994, the Zhong Yuan Factory shall not incur 
any debt, if 
after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt 
to equity shall be greater than 
70 to 30;
 
(iii)
the Zhong Yuan Factory shall maintain a ratio of current assets to 
current 
liabilities of not less than 1.25;
 
(iv)
before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, the Zhong Yuan 
Factory shall, on the 
basis of forecasts satisfactory to the Bank, 
review whether it would meet the 
requirements set forth in 
sub-paragraph (iii) in respect of such year and the next 
following 
fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon 
its completion; and
(v)
if any such review shows that the Zhong Yuan Factory would not 
meet the  
requirements set forth in subparagraph (iii) 
for the fiscal years covered by such 
review, the Zhong Yuan 
Factory shall promptly take all necessary measures in order 
to 
meet such requirements.
(b)
For the purposes of paragraph (a) above:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Zhong Yuan Factory 
Page  6
maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on 
which it is originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of 
payment on the date of such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a 
guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has 
been entered into.
(iii)
The term "net  revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
adjusted to take 
account of the Zhong Yuan Factory's prices in 
effect at the time of the 
incurrence of debt even though 
they were not in effect during the 
twelve-month 
period to which such revenues relate and net non-operating 
income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration,  
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, but excluding  
provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and interest 
and other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the 
generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, 
debt.
 
(vi)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, retained 
earnings and reserves of the Zhong Yuan 
Factory not allocated to cover specific 
liabilities.
 
(vii)
The term "current assets" means cash, all assets which could in 
the ordinary course 
of business be converted into cash within 
twelve months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable 
securities, inventories and pre-paid expenses properly 
chargeable to operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
(viii) The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then 
existing be called for payment within 
twelve months, including 
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service 
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(ix)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms 
of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such 
other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
5.
Henan Province shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after major process contracts 
are let, a detailed implementation schedule.
6.
Henan Province shall relend the equivalent of $117,500,000 of the proceeds of 
the Loan to the Zhong Yuan Factory on terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Bank, including: (a) an interest rate equal to one hundred five 
Page  7
percent (105%) of the rate applicable under Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement; (b) a 
maturity of fifteen (15) years, including a grace period of five (5) years; (c) a 
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (0.75%) per annum; and 
(d) the foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Zhong Yuan Factory.
Part B:
Transfer and Operations Agreement
 
Except as the Bank and Henan Province shall otherwise agree, the Transfer and 
Operations Agreement shall contain the requirements for the Zhong Yuan Factory set 
forth in Part A of this
Schedule and the following other provisions:
1.
The facilities constructed  by  the Zhong Yuan Factory Preparation Office and 
the staff thereof shall be transferred to the Zhong Yuan Factory. The legal rights and 
obligations entered into by Henan Province and the Zhong Yuan Factory Preparation 
Office in respect of the Zhong Yuan Factory shall be transferred to the Zhong Yuan 
Factory.
2.
The Zhong Yuan Factory  shall carry out the remaining activities under Part A of 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and pharmaceutical industry practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other resources required 
for Part A of the Project.
3.
The Zhong Yuan Factory shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and pharmaceutical practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
4.
The Zhong Yuan Factory shall, at all times, operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering and financial practices.
5.
The Zhong Yuan Factory shall provide to Henan Province for furnishing to the 
Bank:
(a)
its accounts and audited financial statements and other information as 
required pursuant  to Section 4.01 of this Agreement; and
(b)
the progress reports and project completion report as required pursuant 
to Section 9.07 of the General Conditions.
