Document of        L
The World Bank
FOR OFFlICIAL USE OPNLY
Report N4,. 2392a-YAR
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT ON TIIE
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT FOR IBB AND DHAMAR
August 14, 1979
Water Supply and Sewerage Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may htot otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatitn.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       -     Yemeni Rial (YRls.)
YRls. 1.00          -     US$    0.22
US$   1.00          -     YRls.  4.50
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Kilometer (km)                      -     0.62 miles
Square Kilometer (km2)              -     0.386 square miles
Hectare (ha)                        -      2.47 acres
Millimeter (mm)                     -      0.03937 inches
Centimeter (cm)                     -     0.3937 inches
Meter (m)                           -      39.37 inches
Cubic Meter (m3)                    -      264.0 US gallons
Cubic Meters per second (m3.sec)  -        22.8 million US gallons per day
Liter (1)                           -     0.264 US gallons
Liters per second (1/sec)           -      22,800 US gallons per day
Liters per capita per day (lpcd)          02.264 US gallons per capita per day
Milligram per liter (mg/l)          -      1.0 parts per million
Million cubic meters per year       -     Mm3/year
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
LDA        -      Local Development Association
MM         -      Ministry of Municipalities
MPW        -      Ministry of Public Works
MPWM       -      Ministry of Public Works and Municipalities
NWSA       -      National Water and Sewerage Authority
RWSD       -      Rural Water Supply Division
UNCDF      -      United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNICEF     -      United Nations Childrens Fund
UNIDO      -      United Nations Industrial Development Organization
UNDP       -      United Nations Development Program
USAID      -      United States Agency for International Development
WHO        -      World Health Organization
YAR        -      Yemen Arab Republic
NWSA's Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT ON THE
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAkGE PROJECT FOR IBB AND DHAMAR
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR ....            ..............   I
General ...............................................               1
Water Resources and Sewerage ..........................               1
Sector Development Program ............................               2
Government's Priorities in the Sector ....           .............    3
Sector Organization ...................................              4
Performance in Previous IDA Lending ....           ...............    4
Other Works ...........................................               5
IDA's Objectives in the 'Sector ........................             6
II.  PROJECT AREA ...................,                                      7
Location and Water Resources.                                         7
Existing Facilities - Water and Sewerage.                             7
Urban Poor.                                                           9
Water Losses.                                                         9
Sewerage Connections.                                                9
III. THE BENEFICIARY .11
Introduction .11
Organization and Management .11
Personnel .12
Training .12
Billing and Collection .13
Accounting Practices and Procedures .14
Audit and Insurance .14
IV. DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECI'S .15
Present Production and Consumption .15
Population Forecast .15
Forecast of Consumption and Number of Connections                    15
This report was prepared by Messrs. S. G. Serdahely (Sanitary Engineer), B.K.
Thomas (Financial Analyst), A. Banerjee (Procurement Officer), and A. J.
Hutchins (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                                Page No.
V. THE PROJECT .17
Genesis.17
Project Objectives .                                                 17
Scope of Project ......................................              17
Project Description ...................................              18
Cost Estimates ........................................              20
Project Implementation ................................              21
Procurement ...........................................              22
Disbursements .........................................              22
Monitoring Criteria ...................................              23
VI.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ....................................               24
Past Results and Present Financial Position ....          .......    24
Tariffs and Revenues ..................................              24
Financing Plan ........................................              25
Future Financial Performance ..........................              27
VII.   ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS ..........................               28
Least Cost Solution ...................................              28
Average Long-Term Incremental Cost ....................              28
Economic Analysis .....................................              29
Risks .................................................              29
Environmental Impact ..................................              30
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....            ............   31
ANNEXES
Annex 1   -    NWSA's Organization Chart
Annex 2   -    Estimated Water Sales, Connections and Population Growth in Ibb
Estimated Water Sales, Connections and Population Growth in
Dhamar
Annex 3   -    Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 4   -    Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
Income and Expenditure Account
Source and Application of Funds
Balance Sheet
Annex 5   -    Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 6   -    Key Indicators for NWSA Operations
Annex 7   -    Cost Estimates
Annex 8   -    Cost Estimates for Cofinancing and Contract Identification
Foreign Exchange Assemblages
Annex 9   -    Additional Information in Project File
MAPS       -    Nos:   14050
14051
14052



CHAPTER I
THE WATER SUPPLY AND
SEWERAGE SECTOR
General
1.01      The Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) located in the southwest corner of the
Arabian peninsula, consists of about 195,000 km2 of mostly mountainous country.
It is bordered on the north and northeast by Saudi Arabia, and on the south
and southeast by the Peoples Democratic Republic of Yemen, and on the west by
the Red Sea. The country has three distinct geographical regions: the rain-
less coastal plain, extending about 70 km inland along the Red Sea; the
central highlands, covering most of the interior where roughly two-thirds of
the population lives; and the eastern plateau, a desert, which extends into
the sands of Saudi Arabia (see Map No. 14050).
1.02      As of mid-1977, the Government estimated the population at 6.5
million with less than 10% resident in urban areas, at least 10% emigrant to
neighbouring oil countries and the remainder living in scattered rural com-
munities. Although economic development is constrained by limited natural
resources and by scarcity of technical and administrative skills, the 1976/
1977 per capita GNP reached a level of approximately US$ 400, largely as
a result of cash inflows from the migrant workers' US$ 1.0 billion in remit-
tances. Although the resultant unprecendented increase in personal incomes
has alleviated the traditional problems of poverty, hunger and underemploy-
ment, it has created new ones such as pollution, congestion and competition
for goods and services, which require urgent attention.
1.03      The Government is now making a major effort on a massive scale to
improve the water supply and sanitation services in the five urban centers
through a program which will provide an estimated half million persons with
improved water supplies and sewerage services. As part of the financing
arrangements for this program, the Government has requested IDA's assistance
for a project that will provide piped water supplies and sewerage to approxi-
mately 130,000 users.
Water Resources and Sewerage
1.04      Because there are no permanently reliable sources of surface water,
reliance is principally placed on groundwater for urban water supplies.
During the summer rains some wadis experience heavy flows, but none contain
running water throughout the year. Springs in and around Sana'a, Taiz and
Ibb provide fractional contributions to the water supplies of these cities.
Moderate mineralization characterizes the groundwater in most areas. Alka-
linity and hardness are relatively high (250 to 450 mg/l) in the highlands,
while in the coastal areas salinity is relatively high (2,000 to 3,000 mg/l).
1.05       Shallow wells provide most of the people in YAR with drinking water.
In the urban centers of Sana'a, Hodeida and Taiz, piped water is supplied



2-
through systems now under large scale expansion by the National Water and
Sewerage Authority (NWSA). Limited piped water supply is provided by local
cooperatives and private enterprises in Ibb and Dhamar. Village areas depend
primarily on hand dug wells although a number of drilled wells are being
installed. The existing water supplies can generally be defined as inade-
quate.
1.06    Hydrogeological studies have been undertaken for the cities of Sana'a,
Hodeida and Taiz, and potentially adequate groundwater sources sufficient to
meet their long-term needs have been identified. Data covering the remainder
of the country is limited. Test drilling over a substantial part of the
country, however, indicated that many rural communities can be adequately
served through wells drilled into the cretaceous sandstones 200-300 m below
ground surface. In Sana'a well drilling is prohibited unless performed under
the aegis of NWSA. The Army has assigned a non-commissioned officer to NWSA
for monitoring and enforcement purposes.
1.07      Although construction of sewage collection and treatment systems is
to commence under ongoing projects in Sana'a, Hodeida and Taiz, no large scale
municipal systems are presently in operation in the country. A limited area
of Taiz is presently served with piped sewerage (2,000 persons), but the
system requires augmentation and extensive improvement. Rudimentary collec-
tion systems exist in parts of the other urban centers but these are ineffec-
tive and conducive to disease transmission.
Sector Development Program
1.08      The total investment program for water supply and sewerage facili-
ties for the main urban centers: Sana'a, Hodeida, Taiz, Ibb and Dhamar is
estimated to reach US$370.0 million by 1983. The following table shows the
estimates of investments for each of the five cities through 1983.
YRls.          US$
---- Millions ---
Sana'a Water Supply             308.9          68.6
Sana'a Sewerage                 217.1          48.2
Hodeida Water Supply             89.4          19.9
Hodeida Sewerage                243.2          54.0
Taiz Water Supply               186.3          41.4
Taiz Sewerage                   218.7          48.6
Dhamar Water Supply             108.3          24.1
Dhamar Sewerage                 112.7          25.1
Ibb Water Supply                 82.9          18.4
Ibb Sewerage                    109.9          24.4
1.09      A rural water supply development program undertaken by the Rural
Water Supply Division (RWSD) of the Ministry of Public Works and Municipali-
ties (MPWM) 1/ is ongoing with assistance from WHO (as the executing agency
1/   Separate Ministries of Public Works (MPW) and Municipalities (MM) were
recently established in YAR.



- 3 -
for UNDP), UNICEF and donors includin,g:  United States (USAID), Abu Dhabi,
Saudi Arabia, Japan, Federal Republic. of Germany, and the Netherlands. IDA's
agricultural development credits have also included rural water supply
elements. The 1975 census indicated a total of some 32,000 communities in
YAR. Government estimates of the number of rural communities to be served
vary from 10,000 to 30,000. The totaLl cost of providing these communities
with adequate or improved access to an unpolluted water source, could be
over US$ 500 million. Presently, it is estimated that, on an annual basis
approximately 50 villages with populations of up to 3,000 persons are being
equipped with minimum level systems (wells, service reservoirs and public
standpipes).
Government's Priorities in the Sector
1.10      The principal problem facing the Government in the sector has been
the shortage of trained engineers and technicians. In view of the limited
human resources available, Governmenit allocated first priority to the urban
centers: Sana'a, Hodeida, Taiz, Ibb and Dhamar because their concentration
of population was conducive to outbreaks of water-associated diseases; and,
by its nature, the concentration allowed maximum use of the limited human
resources available.
1.11      In line with this approach, major projects are being implemented by
Government in Sana'a, Hodeida and Taiz in which water supplies and piped
sewerage systems are being provided. In each of these cities the volume of
wastewater generated through the establishment of large community water
supply systems is such as to require piped sewerage systems. The common
problems of narrow streets in old town areas, and unfavourable soil conditions
tend to preclude the application of other forms of wastewater disposal.
Sewage treatment in Sana'a and Hodeida will be effected through the use of
aerated lagoons. In Taiz, treatment will include trickling filters in
addition to aerated lagoons.
1.12      Although a great deal of emphasis has been placed on urban water
supply and sewerage projects, the Government has not neglected the rural
sector. Close coordination is maintained between the urban and rural sectors
through the Deputy Minister of MPW who is a principal member of NWSA's board
of directors and also heads RWSD( para. 1.16). Progress in rural water supply
development, however, must continue to rely on the limited expatriate tech-
nical assistance available to carry out the rural water supply program.
1.13      Some of the projects prepared by the UNDP project team for the RWSD
have been built utilizing funds and materials provided by a variety of donor
agencies. From 1972 onwards UNICEF had been annually providing about US$ 0.5
million worth of equipment and materials. The Federal Republic of Germany has
made funds in trust in the amount of US$ 810,000 available to UNICEF from 1973
to 1976. United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) has similarly pro-
vided US$ 1.5 million for UNICEF funds in trust from 1976 to 1978 and is
expected to repeat the assistance irn 1979. In 1973-74 an Abu Dhabi grant of
US$ 3.0 million was utilized for purchasing drilling rigs and another grant
of US$ 4.0 million to cover pumping installation costs. Qatar supplied 60
pumping units as well. Iraq drillecd and constructed 33 rural water supply
wells in 1971-72. USAID has been active in well drilling and construction



from 1972 onwards, and has included training for well drillers and technicians.
UNDP and WHO have provided technical assistance on a continuing basis since
1974. Saudi Arabia has, between 1973 and 1978, built 36 rural water supply
systems at a cost of about US$ 16.0 million. Japan embarked on a US$ 15.0
million program in 1977, which, when completed in 1982 will provide systems
for about 50 rural communities. Then, in 1977, Netherlands made a grant of
about US$ 2.6 million available for the construction of 12 systems. IDA
provided US$ 1.8 million for rural water supplies under the Southern Uplands
Rural Development project.
Sector Organization
1.14      Several Government entities are involved in the sector.  The prin-
cipal agency, NWSA, was established in November 1973 in order to achieve
Government's objectives in the sector. Specifically NWSA was delegated the
responsibility for the planning, execution and operation of water supply and
sewerage systems in urban centers. Among subsequent decrees was that in which
NWSA was also required to take over any system for which external borrowing
is required.
1.15      NWSA took over the operation of the Sana'a waterworks from the
Sana'a Cooperative in November 1974, amalgamating the Cooperative staff into
the NWSA organization. An agreement signed by the Port Authority and NWSA in
March 1976 provided for the take over of the Hodeida water supply system from
the Port Authority, and physical take over was effected in 1976. The John
F. Kennedy Memorial Water Supply System in Taiz, the first community network
constructed in YAR and financed by USAID is currently operated by the Taiz
Cooperative Organization. Preparation for the take over of this system by
NWSA has been initiated, with only final documentation still awaiting comple-
tion. The existing water supply for Ibb is operated by a cooperative, while
in Dhamar the responsibility rests with a semi-public organization. Proce-
dures have been initiated by NWSA to take over these supplies.
1.16      The Rural Water Supply Division (RWSD) of MPWM was established in
1972 and made responsible for planning and construction of rural water supply
systems, including the coordination of external assistance for projects.
Headed by a Deputy Minister, the division has a small staff of local tech-
nicians. A UNDP project which was completed at year-end 1978, provided the
services of a full-time WHO sanitary engineer and up to three UNDP volunteers
to the RWSD. Rural water supply systems are initially operated by the RWSD
on completion of construction and are subsequently turned over to the local
authorities, generally the Local Development Association (LDA). In some cases
an area-wide organization (e.g. Tihama Development Association) constructs and
operates the systems until the LDA can assume the responsibility. Operation
and maintenance of the rural systems is not generally of a high standard. The
UNDP project which became effective in January 1979 will address this problem
as one of the project's objectives.
Performance in Previous IDA Lending
1.17      The initial IDA Credit (464-YAR) of US$ 6.25 million for urban water
supply for Sana'a became effective on July 15, 1974. Delays by the consultants



preparing project documentation originally set back project construction by
one year. Subsequently, after all contracts were awarded and construction was
underway, the Yemeni civil works contractor experienced financial difficulties
and ceased production in the pipelaying contract. Therefore, NWSA entered
into a contract with an international construction firm in order to complete
the pipe laying, and this operation is proceeding satisfactorily. However,
instead of being completed by year-end 1977, the civil works were finished
in mid-1979. The cost overrun is being met by the YAR Government as an
equity contribution to NWSA.
1.18      In June 1975, an IDA Credit (559-YAR) of US$ 8.1 million was
approved for the financing of the water supply component of the Hodeida water
supply and sewerage project. The Arab Fund for Economic and Social Develop-
ment provided parallel financing for the sewerage component in the amount of
US$20.2 million. The Credit became effective on December 29, 1975. Although
the design work proceeded on schedule, award of the major civil works con-
struction contracts was delayed because of lack of response from bidders and
because of the high construction costs reflected in the (two) bids received.
Following further delays due to re-bidding after pre-qualification of con-
tractors, contracts were awarded in February, 1979. Again, the YAR Government
has agreed to meet the cost overruns.
1.19      In order to enlarge the water supply scheme being built for Sana'a
under Credit 464-YAR and in order to construct the first phase of the sewerage
master plan, Credit 670-YAR was approved on January 14, 1977 and became effec-
tive on August 22, 1977. The US$ 10.0 million Credit principally covered
sewerage construction materials and equipment as well as engineering. Co-
financing was provided by the Arab Fund, approximately US$ 17.0 million, for
water supply, and by the Saudi Government, approximately US$ 15.0 million,
principally for sewer civil works. As a result of lessons learned from
earlier project experience NWSA has prequalified contractors, and contract
awards are underway.
1.20      Having analyzed the reasons for delays encountered in earlier IDA
project activity NWSA has instituted contract control procedures designed to
minimize the possibility of future dlelays in contract administration.
1.21      Credit 545-YAR for the Southern Uplands Rural Development project
was approved on May 13, 1975 and became effective on January 27, 1976. The
US$ IG.0 million Credit includes a US$ 1.8 million element for well drilling
and rural water supply development. Problems of rapid cost escalation have
caused the scope of this activity to be adjusted, with Government's partici-
pation having to be increased.
Other Works
1.22      In addition to the IDA project, NWSA has undertaken additional works
to improve water supply and sewerage services in YAR. Contracts have been
awarded for the extension and modernization of the Kennedy Memorial water
system in Taiz, which is being effected with the guidance of consulting
engineers (Hazen and Sawyer). This project will replace the present inter-
mittent and low pressure service with a dependable 24-hour per day utility



-6 -
providing 31,600 m3/day of treated water to a 1990 population of 178,000. The
new sewerage system features a major trunk line and a system of collectors to
serve the same population. Treatment will be effected through trickling
filters followed by aerated lagoons. Cost estimates as of November 1978
showed a total investment of YRls 423.0 million (US$94.0 million) for the
project.
IDA's Objectives in the Sector
1.23      Through its lending to the sector, IDA assists the Government in
achieving its logical priority objective of creating maximum impact with
limited available human resources and of lessening the risks of outbreaks
of epidemic diseases in urban centers. In addition, IDA continues to assist
in developing NWSA's institutional and operational capabilities to enable
it to become a competent and financially viable institution for the adminis-
tration of water supply and sewerage in YAR. NWSA engineers and technicians
have been gaining experience in construction supervision under the ongoing
credits for the Sana'a and Hodeida water supply and sewerage projects.
Completion of civil works for the water supply in Sana'a has been followed by
the initiation of the house connection program by NWSA. Groundwater exploita-
tion in Sana'a and Hodeida are under NWSA's control and surveillance. The
progressive development of NWSA as a technically capable organization is
evident in the diminishing of periods of delay in project execution in IDA-
assisted water supply and sewerage projects and in the increasing confidence
NWSA has developed in assuming greater responsibility for project implementa-
tion.
1.24      Funds for rural water projects are being provided through approved
IDA rural development project credits, and these, in turn, attract other
donors who share IDA's objective.



-7-
CHIAPTER II
PROJECT AREA
Location and Water Resources
2.01      Ibb is the center of a rich agricultural region and serves as a
marketing and administrative center, however, industrial development is
minimal.  Located in the southern maritime climate region of YAR, and due to
its topographical and morphological location, Ibb enjoys the highest average
rainfall in the country, over 1,400 mm per year, principally occurring during
the spring and summer rains. Two alluvial plains flank the town of Ibb. The
quaternary sediments of the southern plain, the basin of the Wadi Salabat
As-Sayydah, are presently exploitecl as a groundwater resource for approxi-
mately 30 lps. The wells range from 30 m to 64 m in depth with static water
level a few meters below ground level. The aquifer is readily recharged
during floods.
2.02      Dhamar is also the center of a productive agricultural region and
functions as a marketing and administrative center with only limited prospects
for industrial development. Dhamar is located in the central "transition"
climatic zone in YAR about 130 km south of Sana'a and, therefore, is subject
to similar climatic conditions as Sana'a. Generally, the rainy seasons are
April-May and July-September, and the average annual rainfall is 400-500 mm.
Groundwater occurs in the fractured volcanic rock on the highland plateau and
also in the alluvial basin sediments in the Dhamar area. On the basis of
inventories of 123 wells, present esxtraction is about 45 lps (including irri-
gation) with no significant water level lowering observed.  The water table in
the Dhamar area is evident at a depth of 2 to 10 m below ground level.
Existing Facilities - Water and Sewerage
2.03      The water distribution systems provide service to approximately 80%
of the population of each city. However, because of limited sources and
inadequate distribution the consumption is about 30 to 35 lpcd. Intermittent
service occurs in both systems because of limited facilities for storage and
for well pumping. In Dhamar because of the low level of storage tanks, system
pressure is very low and multi-story buildings require booster pumping units.
The galvanized iron pipe distribution networks in both cities have been
installed at various times according to the growth of each city. The maximum
depth at which the existing pipe is buried is 30 to 40 cm, with some of the
network above ground. Maximum diaimeter of the existing galvanized iron pipe
is 4-inches, but most of the "mains" are 1- and 2-inch pipes; and a substan-
tial amount of the distribution system is in bad repair. Maintenance is dif-
ficult and, therefore, is limited. House connections are generally exposed.
Leakage is visible in those streets where heavy vehicular traffic has damaged
the superficially installed lines. The unsatisfactory condition of the systems



- 8 -
in both cities has reached a degree where replacement is imperative. Bacte-
riological analysis performed by Government at the consultant's request showed
some contamination in both systems, particularly in Dhamar. In Ibb the
cooperative started distributing water in 1963, while the water organization
in Dhamar commenced distribution in 1965. There are no municipal piped sewage
collection systems in either city.
2.04      The water supply for Ibb is derived from two different sources.  The
first, which comprises a rudimentary intake and masonry channel, utilizes
gravity flow from the mountain stream, Wadi Badan, and directs the flow into a
centrally located cistern. Major flows are available only during the two to
three month rainy season. The second, a well field south of the town center,
includes three drilled wells (total yield of 20 lps) which are in operation
12 to 14 hours per day. Private hand dug wells provide only a minimal frac-
tion of the water consumed. Preliminary hydrologic and hydrogeologic inves-
tigations performed by the consultants revealed that quantities of water in the
range of 4 Mm3/yr would be available from the alluvial reservoir serving Ibb.
Agreement has been reached that Government will proceed with the preparation
of hydrogeological studies in the Ibb area in order to ensure adequate ground-
water supplies to the year 2000.
2.05      Dhamar depends on groundwater exclusively for its source of potable
water. A large (5.5 m diameter x 27 m. depth) hand dug well, fitted with two
centrifugal pumps (one of which operates 24 hours per day with a yield of
about 9 lps, and the other is standby), is located south west of the city; and
two drilled wells (total yield of 9 lps), one in the town center and the
second, south of the city, each operated four to eight hours per day represent
the major existing sources. Two reservoirs provide combined storage capacity
equivalent to 440 m3. Dug wells are utilized by the military barracks, seven
mosques and the electricity station. The hospital has its own dug well and
reservoir which it uses for part of its supply.
2.06      The public water supply of Ibb is operated by a quasi-municipal
cooperative which owns the existing source and distribution facilities. The
cooperative estimates that there are approximately 3,000 house connections in
the system of which about 350 are metered. According to the cooperative offi-
cials, approximately 1,000 m3 is distributed to consumers daily, and total
daily production is about 1,300 m3. Those houses which are not connected
obtain their water from public taps (there are 20 of these in present use)
or from connected neighbours. All 32 mosques in Ibb are connected to the
public water supply and provide for part of the demand of the unconnected
population.
2.07      In Dhamar, the water supply is operated by a "cooperative" in which
a portion of the financial interest is privately owned. According to the
organization's principals, there are over 3,000 house connections, including
about 1,600 metered connections. About 900 m3 per day is distributed, with
over 1,200 m3 of water produced daily. Only eight public taps are still
operable in the system. As in Ibb, the unconnected population obtains water
from their connected neighbours, from public taps and from mosques. Of the
40 mosques in the city, 33 are connected to the existing systems.



-9-
Urban Poor
2.08       In Sana'a and Hodeida an inner-city community of squatters prin-
cipally peopled by transient worker-families exists. These constitute the
urban poor element in these cities.. In the cities of Ibb and Dhamar where
there are no quatter settlements, the number of urban poor is very small,
but even these have access to water through the piped water supply system and
private wells. Labor shortages are pervasive throughout the country, and Ibb
and Dhamar are no exception. Worker remittances sent home to YAR by migrants
go mostly to rural small town areas which supply the bulk of the migrant
labor force. Strong family ties have ensured the benefits accruing to a
large number of people in these cities. Labor scarcity has driven up wage
rates in YAR and a large share of the new cash incomes has been spread among
those people who previously had been desperately poor. With common labor
earning YRIs. 80 to YRls. 100 (US$18-22) per day, the number of urban poor
is very limited. In neither city i-s water sold by itinerant vendors, an
indication of the relative minimal number of unserved population and also
usually an indicator of the presence of urban poor. It is also customary in
YAR for poor people to obtain water at the numerous mosques. The Ministry of
Awqaf (religious trusts) has the responsibility of paying the standard rate to
NWSA for water consumed at the mosques. Average consumption at the mosques
for Ibb and Dhamar is about 2 m3/day.
Water Losses
2.09       The NWSA consultants (Italconsult) estimated the present level of
water losses on the basis of average daily total consumption compared with the
average daily total quantity of water produced. The value obtained in this
manner was approximately 25% to 30%. Considering the condition of the dis-
tribution systems as well as the occurrence of leaks in the galvanized iron
pipes due to their frequent exposure to traffic, this figure may be even
higher. On the basis that 25 to 30% of production is lost and a further 10 to
15% of production fails to be accounted for because of under-registration of
meters and an additional miscellaneous 10% of production is not tallied, the
present total of unaccounted for water is probably in the vicinity of 50% of
production. In the proposed project the level of unaccounted-for water is
projected at 25% as of 1983.
Sewerage Connections
2.10       Present collection and disposal of sewage in Ibb and Dhamar is
through pit latrines, cesspools and septic tanks. In most houses the con-
nection from the toilet and bath facilities to the pit latrine or cesspool
is through a vertical shaft or pipe on the front of the building. Sewerage
service connections from the buildings to the laterals will be facilitated
since these vertical shafts already exist. Presently, however these discharge
shafts contribute to the obnoxious condition of wastewater ponding in road-
ways. Where the shafts have become clogged, fecal material is thrown into the
streets. In Ibb an odious stream of septic sewage courses through the central
market plaza. Offensive pools of stagnant sewage exist in both Ibb and Dhamar
because of latrine and cesspool overflows, due to the present provision of



- 10 -
even limited water service without adequate wastewater disposal. Since water
supply is already available to a degree in Ibb and Dhamar, and toilets and
sinks are already drained, it is anticipated that the deposition of faecal
solids in the sewer laterals will not constitute a major problem. Occasional
flushing with mobile tankers will be useful in those areas which might require
such attention. All new residential construction in both cities includes the
installation of sanitary fixtures and fittings. The proposed UNIDO/IBRD
construction materials study will include a factory in YAR for manufacuring
these fixtures. In Sana'a and Hodeida, NWSA has been subjected to increasing
demands from property owners for sewer service. The proposed connection fee
of YRls. 1,900 has not been a deterrent to these demands. Installation of
household sanitary fixtures in both cities has been accelerating in anticipa-
tion of sewer construction. A final draft plumbing code has been prepared by
the consultants, Howard Humphreys and Sons (HHS), and this is expected to
serve as the national urban prototype. Compulsory sewer connections and the
extension of credit facilities for poorer users are envisaged for the Ibb and
Dhamar sewerage systems (para 4.07).



- 11 -
CHAPTER III
THE BENEFICIARY
Introduction
3.01      The Yemen Arab Republic will be the borrower of the proposed Credit
of US$ 12.0 million and will on-lend the Credit proceeds to NWSA on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association. This is the fourth credit to be
provided for the development of adequate water supply and sewerage systems in
urban areas in the country (paras. 1.17-1.19).
Organization and Management
3.02      NWSA was established in November  1973 as an autonomous agency with
complete financial accountability, to provide adequate water and sewerage
service in urban centers. The lawr establishing NWSA provides for the takeover
of existing water supply systems in Sana'a, Hodeida, Taiz, Ibb and Dhamar,
subject to the issuing of Government decrees authorizing the takeovers.
Subsequent legislation provides that NWSA will assume control of those water
supply and sewerage systems for which external borrowing is required. Formal
transfer of the Sana'a water supply system to NWSA became effective in November
1974; and that of Hodeida and Taiz is in the process of completion except for
finalization of administrative details. Agreement has been reached that the
Government will take all steps necessary to transfer to NWSA the exclusive
jurisdiction over the water supply and sewerage systems in Ibb and Dhamar by
the date upon which the project sbLall have been completed.
3.03      Annex 1 shows NWSA's organizational framework.  NWSA's structure
emphasizes decentralization in which the branch offices deal with the day to
day operation, allowing for the scarce managerial skills to be concentrated
in the Head Office in Sana'a, from which new works are planned, policy is
established, consultants' activities are supervised, and branch operations are
coordinated.
3.04      Control of NWSA is vested in a seven member Board; the Chairman of
the Board has ministerial rank and is directly responsible to the Prime
Minister. Other members of the Board are: the General Manager of NWSA; the
Deputy Minister of MPW; the undersecretary of MM; the undersecretary of the
Ministry of Finance, Government Accounting Section; and two qualified repre-
sentatives of local government and the private sector, respectively. The Board
is directly responsible to the Cotncil of Ministers whose regulatory powers
typically affect the major resolutions to be implemented by the Board. The
General Manager is responsible to the Board, through the Chairman, for NWSA's
performance. Reporting to the General Manager are the departments of Finance,
Administration, Engineering and Operation. The branch offices report to the
General Manager through the Operations Manager who provisionally fulfills the
function of Deputy General Manager.



- 12 -
Personnel
3.05      At the time of appraisal, NWSA had a total of 290 staff members of
which 85 were at headquarters, 120 in the Sana'a branch and 85 in the Hodeida
branch. The water authority in Taiz presently has 160 employees and the
branches in Ibb and Dhamar are expected to have about 50 employees each when
the project is completed. NWSA presently can contract with qualified candi-
dates for positions at salary levels comparable to those of private industry.
3.06      NWSA is regarded as a relatively effective, albeit developing, orga-
nization; however, NWSA will have reached the limit of its operational capacity
when the Ibb and Dhamar systems are added to its present responsibilities.
Continuing efforts are being made, therefore, to adequately staff NWSA's head
offices and branches, particularly in the senior positions. Recent salary
increases have made it possible to retain qualified staff in many technical
positions, and the prospects for recruiting engineers for future vacancies
is also good. However, most of the new recruits are young and relatively
inexperienced, and therefore the need for a few experienced expatriate advisors
remains. Experience with recruiting professionals for the financial positions
has been less satisfactory. The position of Financial Manager is currently
being held by an expatriate on an acting incumbency basis.
3.07      In view of the continuing scarcity of accounting and financial
experts in YAR it is necessary that NWSA be assisted by expatriate financial
advisors in the next few years. USAID has as part of its "Water Management
Project" an advisory technical assistance program whereby services of three
financial experts will be made available to NWSA in advisory capacities (para
3.10). The proposed Credit provides funds for an expatriate financial/
administrative expert as part of NWSA's on-line operational staff.
3.08      Because of the rapid growth foreseen for NWSA in the next five years,
it is possible that its staff might be overstretched in some high level func-
tional areas whereas greater efficiencies might be obtained in certain lower
echelons. Agreement has been reached that NWSA will, on an annual basis,
submit to the Association a detailed program of work to be undertaken in each
year, together with concomitant staffing needs and availability of staff.
Training
3.09      A basic training program for NWSA's personnel is underway with the
assistance and financing of a UNDP project in which WHO is the executing
agency. Training of professional staff was included in the on-going IDA
assisted project (Credit 559-YAR) and this program is complementary to the
UNDP program. As a result of NWSA's 1975-1977 recruitment drive at home
and abroad it was established that only a limited number of qualified profes-
sionals are available in YAR, and that NWSA will have to continue the adminis-
tration of training programs to provide qualified personnel for all of its
operational aspects. In consultation with the appraisal mission, NWSA
reviewed its 1980 staffing requirements and projected its needs to 1985.
These requirements were then compared with present NWSA personnel to determine
the recruitment and training necessities. The principal emphasis in training



- 13 -
will be to upgrade the capability of incumbent staff in order to meet the
additional requirements imposed by the expanded facilities evolving from the
proposed investment program.
3.10      The estimated costs of the training needs and technical assistance
to NWSA througn 1984 is more than US$ 6.0 million, excluding the salaries of
trainees payable in local currency and costs of training in local establish-
ments. NWSA has commitments for all of this financing. Under the Hodeida
Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 559-YAR) IDA provided US? 200,000
and the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development allocated US$ 925,000
for training. Additionally, the proposed Credit provides for US$ 200,000 for
the cost of training. USAID in its US$ 3.9 million Water Management Project
is providing advisory staff over a three year period in the following areas:
technical planning, finance, administration and maintenance. Expatriates
assigned to the project will be exclusively advisory. However, these expa-
triates will also assist in the on-the-job training of Yemeni counterparts.
Provision has been included in the proposed Credit for US$ 911,000 to cover
the foreign exchange costs of expatriate operational "on-line" staff, in
branch management, engineering, and operational capacities. The expatriate
staff will be seconded from the following authorities which have agreed to
assist NWSA: Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux
(SONEDE), Tunisia; and the Amman Water and Sewerage Authority (AWSA), Jordan.
SONEDE was established in 1968 as an autonomous water agency as a result of
Bank-assisted institutional development in water supply projects in Tunisia.
Similarly, AWSA came into being in 1973 as a corollary to IDA-financed water
supply projects in Amman. Agreement has been reached that NWSA will have
started recruitment of the expatr:iate staff so that initial field assignments
can be made before year-end 1979.
3.11      In order to develop and strengthen the institutional capacity of
the Rural Water Supply Department in the MPW, UNDP is implementing a new
three-year project as of January ]L979, with WHO as the executing agency and
with a budget of US$1.7 million and YRls. 18.3 million. In addition to
providing 19 fellowships (420 man-months total) the UNDP/WHO project also
provides expatriate technical assistance and training of technical and non-
technical (villagers) staff.
Billing and Collection
3.12      NWSA's customers are billed monthly for a fixed charge.  Because of
frequent interruption in services, consumption has not thus far been metered.
However, as new sources of water are introduced into the system, making 24-
hour continuous service possible, all connections will be metered. A meter
installation program is in its early stages of implementation in Sana'a as
part of the house connection program. At present different charges for
domestic and commercial usage are levied on the connections based on the
different levels of service, and t:his practice will continue once meters are
installed. The customers pay their bills to the branch office cashiers; and
if a bill is not paid within three months of its submission, the service is
disconnected. Accounts receivable presently stands at 1.7 months sales, which
is acceptable.



- 14 -
3.13      NWSA is in the process of obtaining mini-computers for the purposes
of billing and augmenting its collection and control capabilities. Existing
and new customers will be required to pay a deposit to NWSA that would cover
an estimated three months of water sales. Low income users, however, will be
allowed to arrange installment payment of the deposit.
Accounting Practices and Procedures
3.14      Since NWSA's establishment, while the accounting system which
started on a simple cash basis has become increasingly more sophisticated, to
the degree that audited accounts through fiscal year 1977 have been produced,
much still remains to be done.
3.15      In compliance with the provisions of the Project Agreement for
Sana'a Water Supply Project (Credit 464-YAR) a new accounting system was
designed for NWSA by a Lebanese consulting firm, Shair and Company. The
system consisted of mechanized customer billing, collection and control,
financial and cost accounting and budgeting; and these were approved by NWSA.
With the decision to acquire mini-computers, programs were designed by the
vendors for review by the consultants and these were approved. As from fiscal
1979 all accounting in Yemen, including that of NWSA, has been required to
adopt a standard format similar to the French "Plan Comptable" system. This
will entail substantial revisions to the computer programs, which are being
done at present, and the system will be implemented soon after their comple-
tion.
3.16      NWSA's accounting arrangements are adequate for its present level
of operations, but it is clear that considerable work remains to be done to
achieve the higher accounting skills necessary to control such a large and
rapid increase in consumers and assets. To this end, advisors are being
employed through the USAID project to advise and assist in training NWSA
accounting staff (para. 3.10), and the Credit includes the engagement of
expatriate on line accounting staff to enable NWSA to bridge the interim
period while also training counterpart staff.
Audit and Insurance
3.17      As required under previous Credits, NWSA's accounts are audited by
certified accountants who are acceptable to the Association.
3.18      Some minor assets belonging to NWSA, such as motor vehicles are
insured through the Mareb Yemen Insurance Company. As a Government entity the
bulk of all major assets in operation are not insured. Projects under con-
struction are insured by the respective contractors under the terms of their
contracts.



-- 15 -
CHAPTER IV
DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS
Present Production and Consumption
4.01       There are no systematic records available relating to water pro-
duction and consumption for the citiLes of Ibb and Dhamar. Estimates and
projections were prepared by the consultants (Italconsult) based on informa-
tion provided by the water company officials and on observations by the
consultants.
4.02       Water consumption in Ibb and Dhamar is principally made up of
domestic usage, while commercial, industrial and governmental consumption is
limited. Present domestic consumption in both cities is estimated by the
cooperative and the consultants at 30 to 35 lpcd, with the unconnected popula-
tion consuming as little as 15 lpcd. This low consumption is attributed
to the limits imposed by the present difficulties in water production and
distribution. On a comparative basis, in Hodeida overall average per capita
consumption in 1978 is 66 lpcd while in Sana'a the figure is over 50 lpcd.
Population Forecast
4.03    Estimated mid-year population in the years 1978 through 1990 is
shown in Annex 2. They are based on population levels established by local
authorities through block counts performed in the cities. These counts differ
somewhat from the 1975 census in which the maps and block designations are
considered to be inaccurate by local authorities. In Ibb the 1978 city popu-
lation of 34,600 is estimated at approximately 4% of the governorate popula-
tion, which is consistent with the character of the region, together with the
proximity of Taiz, which is expected to have a slightly curbing effect on
the growth of Ibb. For Dhamar, which is less affected by the nearness of a
larger city the 1978 population of 36,480 represents 8% of the governorate
population. The growth rate of Ibb is expected to average approximately 5%
per year with a natural increase of about 2.3% and a migratory balance of 2.7%
per year. Thus the 1990 population is expected to reach about 63,000. For
Dhamar, a slightly higher average growth rate is forecast. The 5.3% average
total is estimated on the basis of 2.3% natural increase and 3.0% migratory
increase. In 1990 the Dhamar population is forecast at about 70,000.1/
Forecast of Consumption and Number of Connections
4.04       The mission's forecast of water consumption and production in the
period 1978 through 1990 as agreed upon by NWSA are shown in Annex 2. For
1/   The urban planning consultant, Kampsax-Berger, forecast the 1990 popula-
tion for Ibb at 57,700, and for Dhamar at 106,000.



- 16 -
Ibb, average daily per capita consumption is estimated to increase from the
1978 level of 35 liters to 130 liters by 1990, while for Dhamar the range will
be from 30 liters to 130 liters for the same period.
4.05      In 1978 there were 3,000 water connections in Ibb, and it is pro-
jected that there will be about 6,500 connections by 1985 and about 7,800 by
1990. For Dhamar, the 1978 total of water connections was 3,000, and the
projections for 1985 and 1990 were about 6,800 and about 8,600 respectively.
In Ibb the number of metered connections existant in 1978 was only about 350
while in Dhamar the figure was about 1,600. By 1985 NWSA plans to have all
house connections metered in both cities. The level of unaccounted for water
forecast to be achieved by 1983 is 25% of all production. The maximum day
demand is projected to be 20% more than the yearly average demand per day and
the maximum hour demand is projected to be 50% more than the maximum day
demand.
4.06      The proposed project would have the capacity to meet the cities'
water supply and sewerage needs up to the year 1990. It is not anticipated
that the projected tariff levels will significantly affect usage levels.
4.07      The piped sewerage systems for both cities would become operative in
1984. In Ibb the system would provide collection through about 4,600 service
connections by 1985, and by 1990 the installed total is expected to reach
about 6,100 connections. Similarly for Dhamar, by 1985, 4,800 connections
would be installed, and in 1990 about 6,300 premises would be connected to
the sewer system. Agreement has been reached that by the date upon which the
project shall have been completed the Government will have taken the measures
necessary to ensure that those water customers with sewerage facilities
available to them be required to connect to the sewer system, and that NWSA
will give credit facilities to low income customers to help them meet the cost
of connecting to the sewer system. These measures are also defined in the
previous Credit (670-YAR).



- 17 -
CHAPTER V
THE PROJECT
Genesis
5.01      Funds for feasibility studies for development of adequate water
supply and sewerage facilities, for Ibb and Dhamar were included in Credit
670-YAR, Sana'a Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project. NWSA issued terms
of reference in November 1976 and the selected consultant initiated field work
in July 1977. Final draft reports were submitted to NWSA and IDA in October
1978.
Project Objectives
5.02      The overall project objective is to continue the development of
NWSA's institutional and operational capabilities by:
(a) assisting NWSA in its program of improving water supply
and sewer service in Ibb and Dhamar;
(b) providing on-line operational, technical and financial
assistance for several branches of NWSA;
(c) upgrading the technical and professional skills of NWSA
staff by assisting in the implementation of a training
program; and
(d) assisting NWSA during project supervision with particular
emphasis on NWSA's own staff assuming additional respon-
sibility for project supervision.
Scope of Project
5.03      The proposed project (Map Nos. 14051 and 14052), which represents a
further developmental stage in the field of water supplies and sewerage in the
Yemen Arab Republic, was prepared by Italconsult and would improve and expand
water supplies and provide piped sewerage for the towns of Ibb and Dhamar
through the year 1990. Both cities have existing but unsatisfactory water
supply systems, with consumption levels at about 30 lpcd; and the systems are
not adequate for the provision of additional quantities of water to Lhe
cities. The project will increase the quantity of water available in 'bb from
0.4 million m3/year in 1978 to more than 3.0 million m3/year in 1990 through
drilling of eight additional wells., The distribution system will be divided
into two level service areas. For Dhamar the increases in water production
and average consumption will be of the same order with the drilling of nine
additional wells projected. All connections will be metered.



- 18 -
5.04      At present the city of Ibb has no municipal piped sewerage system.
The few drains that exist are local and private in nature, serving as combined
sewage and sullage drains. Except for the central part of the city where
there are steep slopes, ponding of sewage occurs in flat areas. Similarly in
Dhamar, rudimentary sewerage, consisting of covered masonry channels, trans-
ports both domestic wastes and stormwater where flow conditions permit; and
stoppages and accumulation are common. These channels conducts the sewage
to four ponding areas located within the urban zone. The ponds constitute a
serious health hazard to the public as well as contributing to acquifer
pollution. The proposed project will provide both cities with piped sewerage
systems and appropriate wastewater treatment.
Prolect Description
5.05      The project works include:
A. Ibb - Water Supply:
(a) drilling and equipment of eight wells (90 lps total capacity);
(b) a collection tank (60 m3) and pumping facilities (3 pumps -
127.5 lps total capacity);
(c) 2 electric power stations (one with 2x300 KW and the other
2x25 KW generators);
(d) a 400 mm transmission line (2.1 km length);
(e) headworks (2 reservoir - 1,500 m3 each, pumps and pressure
tanks);
(f) distribution network (12.7 km of 400 mm, and 12.0 km varying
in diameter from 80-250 mm);
(g) 3,000 house connections; and
(h) consulting engineering services for final design and super-
vision (approximately 74 man-months).
B. Ibb - Sewerage:
(a) Collection system (60.5 km varying from 200-600 mm diameter
and 1,200 manholes);
(b) a treatment plant (aerated lagoons and stabilization ponds
with design flow rate of about 90 lps);
(c) land for the treatment plant;
(d) a power plant;



- 19 -
(e) 4,000 house connections; a-nd
(f)  consulting engineering services for final design and super-
vision (approximately 100 man-months).
C. Dhamar - Water Supply:
(a) drilling and equipment of nine wells (102.4 lps total capacity);
(b) a collection tank (150 m3) and pumping facilities (5 pumps -
237.5 lps total capacity);
(c) two electric power stations, one with 2x300 KW and the other
2x20 KW generators;
(d) a 400 mm transmission line (16.5 km length);
(e) headworks (2 reservoirs - 3,400 m3 each and pumping station
- 216 lps);
(f) distribution network (11.5e km of 400 mm and 11.2 km varying
in diameter from 80-200 mm);
(g)  3,000 house connections; and
(h) consulting engineering services for final design and super-
vision (approximately 96 man-months).
D. Dhamar - Sewerage:
(a)  Collection system (64.3 km varying from 200-600 mm diameter
and 1,300 manholes);
(b)  a treatment plant (aerated lagoons and stabilization ponds
with design flow rate of about 90 lps);
(c) land for the treatment plant;
(d) a power plant;
(e) 4,000 house connections; -and
(f) consulting engineering services for final design and super-
vision (approximately 100 man-months).
E. Assistance in the Institutional Development of NWSA:
(a) construction of two office buildings (Ibb and Dhamar);



- 20 -
(b) 430 man-months of on-line assistance providing operational,
technical and financial staff for several branches of NWSA; and
(c) training of staff from NWSA.
Cost Estimates
5.06      The total estimated cost of the project  is YRls. 413.72 million
(US$91.94 million) with a foreign exchange cost of YRls. 250.43 million
(US$55.65 million) equal to 60% of the total cost. A summary of the cost
estimates is as follows:
Local     Foreign      Total   % of
------ US$ (Million) ----    Total
Ibb-Water                        2.26        7.10       9.36    10.2
Dhamar-Water                     2.62        9.89       12.51    13.6
Ibb - Sewerage                   3.61        8.72       12.33    13.4
Dhamar-Sewerage                  3.80        9.14       12.94    14.1
Land and Administration,
Buildings                      0.34        1.07       1.41      1.5
Technical Assistance
and Training                   2.56       0.09        2.65      2.9
Sub-Total                       15.19       36.01      51.20    55.7
Engineering                      0.75        2.10        2.85     3.1
Construction Supervision         0.71        2.01        2.72     3.0
Physical Contingencies           1.86        5.24        7.10     7.7
Price Escalation                17.77       10.30      28.07    30.5
Total                           36.28       55.66      91.94   100.0
The cost estimates are based on actual construction prices prevailing in
existing large scale water supply and sewerage projects in Yemen, as of
October 1978. Average monthly cost of expatriate consulting engineering
services is estimated at about US$9,600. An exchange rate of US$ 1.00 = YRls.
4.50 has been used in the estimates and is expected to continue throughout the
construction period in spite of the high local inflation rate. Detailed cost
estimates are shown in Annex 7. Physical contingencies of 15% were added to
the base costs. Price contingencies of 50% of the base cost plus physical
contingencies were also provided for in the project cost estimates. Construc-
tion supervision is estimated at 5% of base construction costs. To provide
for price escalation during the project execution, foreign expenditures were
escalated at an annual rate of 6-1/2% for 1979, and 6% thereafter for equipment;
7-1/2% for 1979, and 7% thereafter for civil works; and local expenditures
were escalated at 30% for 1979, 25% for 1980 and 1981, and 20% thereafter.1/
1/   "EMENA Historical and Projected Rates of Inflation" dated January 1,
1979 shows lower overall rates but states: "Figures for construction
and housing likely to be significantly higher."



-- 21 -
5.07      NWSA proposes to finance the YRls. 414.0 million (US$92.0 million)
required for the project as follows:
YRls     US$     %
-(Millions)-
IDA Credit                                    54      12    13
Co-financing                                 198      44    48
Total Borrowing                              252      56    61
Government Equity                            162      36    39
414      92   100
5.08      The Government funds represent the local currency costs of the proj-
ect. Agreement has been reached that Government will provide such funds to
NWSA as needed, and also any funds required to meet local and foreign cost
overruns.
5.09      In order to secure co-financing of the foreign exchange costs of
the project, the Government has approached several international and bilateral
lending agencies and has already obtained reasonably firm financing commitments.
KfW has agreed to provide about US$10.0 million equivalent in grants for the
Ibb water supply. The Arab Fund arnd Saudi Fund have indicated that they would
be prepared to consider providing about US$10.0 million and US$15.0 million
respectively. The Government is continuing to exert efforts to secure financ-
ing to cover the remaining gap. Signature of loan agreements with these
lenders on terms acceptable to the Association would be a condition of effec-
tiveness of the Credit.
Project Implementation
5.10      The network diagram for project implementation, covering as well
the IDA functions as they relate to the construction schedule, is attached as
Annex 3. On-line technical and operational assistance would be assigned to
field duties in the second semester of 1979. NWSA is in the process of
selecting consultants to carry out the final designs and prepare the tender
documents, which should be completed in the first half of 1980. The consultant
retained will be instructed to prepare combined tender documents for both Ibb
and Dhamar to the extent possible, and particularly for procurement of goods,
in the interest of economy and efficiency of project administration. Cost
savings of between five and ten percent are estimated to be derived from
tendering in this manner. Tendering can then take place in the second half of
1980, and construction will be completed by mid-1983. The Credit would be
fully disbursed by mid-1984.
5.11      For construction supervision NWSA will be assisted by foreign
consulting engineers who will provide in-service training to NWSA's staff.
Under the ongoing Credits for the Sana'a and Hodeida water supply and sewer-
age projects, as well as the USAID project for Taiz, NWSA engineers and
technicians have been gaining experience in construction supervision. In



- 22 -
addition, a well qualified expatriate sanitary engineer is currently advising
NWSA's technical staff in his capacity as counterpart to the Deputy General
Manager. Most of his activity has been directed towards project development
and execution with emphasis on the relationships existing between NWSA,
consultants and contractors. The technical assistance to NWSA and training
of its staff is covered in paragraphs 3.07 to 3.11. Agreement has been
reached with NWSA that consultants acceptable to IDA will be retained, under
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, to assist in project supervision and
to continue the process of developing this expertise in the Authority.
Procurement
5.12      All contracts financed by IDA would be procured through international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines for Procurement.
For bid evaluation purposes, a 15% margin of preference or customs duties,
whichever is lower, would be allowed for equipment manufactured in the Yemen
Arab Republic. Contracts for goods of less than YRls 225,000 (US$50,000),
aggregating to not more than YRls 1,350,000 (US$300,000) would be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
local procedures acceptable to IDA. Items financed by other external lenders
including civil works would be procured in accordance with their own guidelines.
5.13      Except for water pipes and sewers of less than 10 inches diameter,
foreign suppliers are expected to win all the contracts for supply of equip-
ment and materials. Foreign contractors are also expected to win the civil
works contracts for construction of the water supply and sewer systems.
Disbursements
5.14      The proposed IDA Credit of US$ 12.0 million would be disbursed
against the cost of the project elements as follows.
(a) Equipment and Materials          -    100% of foreign exchange
(US$ 7.10 million)                    expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory),
85% of local expenditures
for locally procured goods,
related to the cost of pipes
for water supplies and elec-
trical/mechanical equipment
for sewage treatment plants.
(b) Consultants Services             -    100% of the cost of con-
(US$ 2.01 million)                    sultants for supervi-
sion of construction.
(c) Technical Services               -    100% of the foreign
(US$ 0.91 million)                    exchange for expatriate
operational assistance
to NWSA.



- 23 -
(d) Training                        -    100% of the foreign
(US$ 0.16 million)                   exchange of training
cost of NWSA personnel.
(e) Unallocated
(US$ 1.82 million)
Estimated disbursements of the IDA Credit are shown in Annex 5.
Monitoring Criteria
5.15      Annex 6 shows the key indicators which would be monitored during
project execution to measure the achievement of the technical, financial and
administrative goals set for overall NWSA operations as well as the proposed
project. Agreement has been reached that NWSA will report the evolution of
these indicators to IDA on a quarter:Ly basis during project implementation
(except for those items which are meaningful only on an annual basis) and on
an annual basis for five years following project completion, and that it will
carry out any remedial actions suggested by the Association.



- 24 -
CHAPTER VI
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Results and Present Financial Position
6.01      Through FY 1977, NWSA's operations were confined to Sana'a and
earned a modest surplus. During FY 1978, the Taiz and Hodeida systems were
acquired by means of equity funds subscribed by Government, and the Authority's
net worth increased from YRls 45.7 million to YRls 111.2 million. Provisional
consolidated results for FY 1978 show a continuing small surplus. At June
1978, current liabilities slightly exceeded current assets but this situation
is temporary and is not considered to give cause for alarm.
Tariffs and Revenues
6.02      At present, NWSA's revenues derive entirely from water supply opera-
tions and are based on a fixed monthly charge per connection (para 3.12).
This varies from city to city; currently the average is equivalent to YRls
1.86/m3 of consumption (US$1.56/1,000 galls). Tariff studies already underway
in Taiz, Sana'a and Hodeida have indicated that differences between the cost
of service in different centers are not significant, and it is intended to
introduce a uniform system of charging in all centers. This system will be
based on consumption as recorded by meters which are now being installed in
Sana'a and which will be introduced gradually in other centers. An objective
of the tariff studies will be to develop a progressive block rate structure
which will ensure a basic supply at low cost to poor consumers while discour-
aging excessive use through high charges.
6.03      Agreement has been reached that the tariff studies will be completed
and consolidated by December 31, 1981, with the intention that the results
should be discussed, agreed and implemented by December 31, 1982. This
timetable is considered to be realistic in the context of YAR. By 1983, the
metering program should be reaching completion in all centers and sewerage
facilities should be in service in Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida. It follows from
this timetable that NWSA's charges will be based:
(a) through 1981, on local fixed fees for water supply;
(b) during 1982, on local fixed fees for water supply plus
a fixed supplement for sewered consumers;
(c)  from 1983, on a national scale of commodity rates for
water according to metered consumption, with a supple-
mentary rate for sewer use where appropriate, but fixed
charges may continue to apply where metering has not
been completed.
6.04      The economic analysis (para 7.02) suggests that national average
long-run incremental costs (LRIC) are YRls 3.03/m3 for water supply and YRls



- 25 -
3.48/m3 for sewerage in 1978 prices. By comparison with the present level of
charge (equivalent to YRls 1.86/m3 for water only) there is clearly a need for
substantial increases in real terms before economically efficient levels can
be reached. Further, with cost inflation forecast at 15% a year through 1982,
it will be necessary for NWSA to keep its charges under frequent review to
safeguard its financial viability. The financial projections (Annex 4) assume
an increase in the effective charge for water on the order of 25% annually
until it reaches the level of LRIC in 1985, but that sewer charges will be
introduced at the level of LRIC in 1982 when new facilities come into opera-
tion. In practice, the timing of the discrete adjustments necessary to
achieve these purposes may vary. The affordability of such charges can be
established in average terms with reasonable confidence (para 7.06), but at
this stage it is difficult to assess the impact on individual consumers, whose
bills will be affected also by the changeover to metered charging and by the
introduction of a uniform rate scheduLle. These aspects are being addressed in
the tariff study and will be taken into account in the construction of the
rate schedule.
Financing Plan
6.05      Government subscribed the initial capital to establish NWSA and to
enable it to commence operations in Sana'a; further capital subscription fi-
nanced the acquisition of the Taiz and Hodeida systems. Equity will increase
still further as a result of Government's undertakings under previous Credits
to subscribe in the form of equity:
(a) 100% of local project costs;
(b) 44% of foreign exchange costs;
(c) cost overruns, now expected to amount to about YRls 186
million.
These arrangements have provided NWSA with a substantial equity base and
a debt:equity ratio which will continue low throughout the period of project
construction. The Authority is now in a position to accept harder terms for
its future finance, and accordingly the Government intends that 100% of
the Credit and the other foreign loans for the proposed project should be
on-lent to NWSA. Current interest tates in YAR range from 6-8%. The proposed
Credit will be on-lent at 8% for a term of 20 years including 5 years of
grace; the execution by Government of a subsidiary loan agreement to this
effect would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit.
6.06      On this basis, NWSA's total financing plan for the period of project
construction would appear as follows:



- 26 -
NWSA    FINANCING PLAN - FY 1979-83
YRls.               %
Million
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
On-going Projects
Sana'a   -  Water Supply I                              35.91               2
Water Supply II                           210.53              13
Sewerage                                  200.08              12
Hodeida  -  Water Supply                                72.51               5
Sewerage                                  222.19              13
Taiz     -  Water Supply                              179.11               11
Sewerage                                  205.91              12
Proposed Project  1/
Office Building                                         17.69               1
Ibb      -  Water Supply                                73.29               4
Sewerage                                  103.29               6
Dhamar   -  Water Supply                                94.71               6
Sewerage                                  107.37               6
Head Office - Deferred Expenditure  2/                   6.36               -
Interest During Construction                           58.50                4
Increase in Working Capital                             97.58               6
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                 1,685 03             100
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash General                                         181.64
Less:  Debt Service                      138.51
Less:  Capitalised Interest        58.50                80.01
Net Cash Generation                                    101.63               6
Borrowing from Government
Existing IDA Credits               40.62
Existing Foreign Loans            173.74
Proposed IDA Credit                54.00
Other Foreign Loans               198.00               466.36              28
Government Equity                                           1,057.40               63
Consumers Contribution                                         59.64                3
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                     1,685.03             100
1/  Excludem YR1Is. 11.0 million which will be spent in 1984 and 1985.
2/ The cost of expatriate personnel.



- 27 -
Future Financial Performance
6.07      Tariff arrangements such as are described in paras 6.02-6.04 will be
adequate to cover NWSA's operating costs and financing charges through 1985.
Previous Credit Agreements call for NWSA to achieve a positive rate of return
on average net fixed assets in operation properly valued by FY 1978, of 5% by
1984, and 7.5% by 1987 and this will be repeated in the proposed Credit. The
financial projections (Annex 4) show that these targets can be met using
assets at historical cost as the rate base, as is customary in Yemeni finan-
cial statements. The value of assets presently in service represents less
than 1% of the values to be added dur:Lng the period of project construction,
and the rate base is therefore not significantly affected by inconsistencies
of valuation throughout this period. If asset values in the years of project
completion and subsequent years (1983-85) were increased by reference to the
forecast indices of construction costs, the rate of return would still exceed
5% in 1984.
6.08      The substantial injections of equity capital provided to NWSA
under past Credits will leave the Authority with a debt:equity of 25:75 after
project completion. Agreement has been reached with NWSA that the tariffs
will be reviewed and adjusted annually as necessary to generate revenues which
will, as a minimum, cover operating expenses including depreciation and
interest charges. This will also ensure that NWSA maintains adequate debt
service coverage during the project construction period. Sizeable cash
surpluses are forecast to emerge as of 1984 and 1985. However, it is prudent
to provide NWSA with a substantial self-financing capability to meet the
requirements of its post-1983 program which has not yet been defined or
costed. The debt limitation covenants of previous Credits (debt not to exceed
that which can be serviced out of internal cash flow with a cover of 1.5x)
have been repeated in the proposed Credit.



- 28 -
CHAPTER VII
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Least Cost Solution
7.01      The proposed project represents an essential step towards further
development in the field of water supply and sewerage in YAR. It will provide
the cities of Ibb and Dhamar with a safe and reliable supply of water as well
as piped sewerage through the year 1990. The system has been designed in
accordance with sound engineering principles, utilizing acceptable criteria
and reasonable assumptions. For water supply in both Ibb and Dhamar several
configurations of mains and laterals as well as locations of reservoirs and
pumping stations were reviewed by the mission. The alternative selected repre-
sents the most cost-effective as well as technologically appropriate solution
to the water supply needs for the cities. With regard to sewerage, the
mission examined several alternative treatment processes.  At IDA's behest the
consultant investigated alternative approaches to wastewater disposal includ-
ing the possibilities of using latrines (conservancy) and cluster septic tanks.
Neither system could be justified since manpower shortages in the first case
and extremely high construction costs in the second, precluded implementation
of these systems. In the case of cluster septic tanks additional areas of
concern included: space limitations, land purchase aspects, maintenance
requirements and aquifer contamination. The proposed systems for both water
supply and sewerage proved to be the least cost solutions at discount rates
of 8%, 10% and 12%.
Average Long-Term Incremental Cost
7.02      The average long-term incremental cost of water supply and sewerage
in 1978 prices and at a discount rate of 10%, which is appropriate for YAR,
is as follows:
Water      Sewerage      Total
----YRls/m3----------
NWSA (5 cities)                              3.03        3.48         6.51
Ibb                                          3.11        3.69         6.80
Dhamar                                       3.53        3.51         7.04
The tariff proposed for combined water and sewerage services in the first year
when the systems in Ibb and Dhamar are operational (1983) will be about 95% of
the average incremental cost of providing these services in Ibb and about 93%
in Dhamar and by 1985 the tariffs will equal the average incremental costs.
Given the insignificant differences in the calculated long-term incremental
costs as well as the inherent imprecisions associated in their calculation,
the analysis indicates that the actual difference in cost amongst the cities
is minimal and therefore, the argument for a uniform tariff schedule with all
its associated simplicity of design and implementation becomes stronger. The



- 29 -
analyses further suggests that while the proposed tariff has been based prin-
cipally on considerations of the financial needs of NWSA, it is also adequate
in terms of the recovery of costs.
7.03      The tariff studies currently being undertaken for the cities of
Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida aim at encouraging appropriate resource allocation by
ensuring that large consumers (industry, hotels, etc.) will, through higher
rates, pay the full costs of the incremental supplies they demand; and low
income consumers will be provided with their basic requirements at a price
they can afford.
Economic Analysis
7.04      The proposed progressive tariff will take into account the needs
and ability to pay of different classes of consumers, consistent with the
financial requirements of NWSA. Although the proposed tariffs will be high,
the projected per capita consumption is such that the demands are unlikely
to be affected by high tariffs. At t:he same time income levels in the urban
areas of YAR are such that even at thie lowest income levels the monthly water
and sewerage costs are unlikely to exceed 4% of their monthly income.
Variations in actual water demand wiLl not be difficult to accommodate with
the flexibility inherent in the production system.
7.05      Government's provision of adequate water and sewerage services con-
tributes to the improvement of the health, social and economic well being of
the population being served. It also facilitates economic investment and
development, thereby helping create and expand employment opportunities for
the general public. Safe water and suitable sewerage systems for a city,
furnish some of the amenities of life for which individuals are willing to pay.
The value placed on this service is measured by the estimated amount customers
will pay in a situation where a progressive rate schedule relative to the
quantity of water is applied with the intention of controlling or restricting
water consumption. The absence of either a reliable water supply or a suit-
able water tariff schedule in Ibb and Dhamar and also the unreliability and
sparsity of metering precludes the calculation of a rate of return on the
basis of present tariffs. However as a surrogate if the future tariffs are
used as a measure of willingness to pay, then the incremental financial rates
of return for Ibb and Dhamar are 10.3% and 10% respectively.
Risks
7.06      Since its establishment in November 1973 NWSA's management and staff
have demonstrated an increasing capability in coping with their rapidly grow-
ing responsibilities. In this they have been assisted by experienced expa-
triate advisors in engineering, finance and construction supervision. The
measures recommended to be taken in the course of the execution of this proj-
ect, such as the technical assistance to NWSA by experienced on-line staff,
training for NWSA staff, construction supervision, the proposed review by
IDA of NWSA's financial operations and investment program, and monitoring
key indicators of progress will further ensure that the risks are no greater



- 30 -
than can normally be expected with usual water supply and sewerage projects.
Based upon present knowledge of groundwater resources in the Ibb area, the
reliability of the source is apparently such that the demand through 1990
will be met. The risks of not achieving the institutional, technical and
financial objectives of the project are moderate.
Environmental Impact
7.07      The Government is pursuing the program of providing the country's
major cities with basic infrastructure such as water supply and sewerage.
Through implementation of this project the Authority will be supplying safe
and adequate quantities of water to practically the entire population of
two cities thereby eliminating their dependence on unsafe and insufficient
supplies. Similarly, the provision of piped sewage collection systems to
the two cities will eliminate the unsanitary conditions which already exist
in the cities and which would be further aggravated if additional quantities
of water were introduced into the cities without making provision for their
adequate disposal. Further, the installation of piped sewage collection
systems in Ibb and Dhamar will reduce the use of cesspools and thereby
lessen the danger of aquifer contamination.



- 31 -
CHAPTER VIII
AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Conditions of effectiveness of the Credit are that financing agree-
ments between the Government and foreign lenders have been signed, and a
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and NWSA has been executed
(paras 5.09 and 6.05).
8.02      Agreement having been reached on the issues set forth in Chapters I
through VII of this report, the project is suitable for an IDA Credit to the
Yemen Arab Republic of US$ 12.0 million.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE - IBB AND DHAMAR
NATIONAL WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
Organization Chart
BOARD
OF
DIRECTORS
CHAIRMAN
GENERAL
MANAGER
| MANAGER    |l MANAGER    ll MANAGER    ll MA NAGER                                                             l
PLANNING AND      SANAA      HODEIDA       TAIZ        IBB       DHAMAR
DIVISIOUTNG                 _    DPERSIONNE                  DESIGN         BRANCH |   BRANCH        RAC        BRNH        BANCH
_    DIVISION       DIVISION                   ~~~~~~~~~DIVISION  MANAGER   MANAGER    AANAGERMAGE            MNGR
CONTROLLES                       OFFICE   lPROCUREMENT                                             BRANCH
DIVISION  SERVICE                DIVISION   ll MANAGER
DIVISIONIVSO                       AMNS        FNNE          AE       SWRGE        SOE
l PUBLIC   l|CONSTRUCTION|                     |||X|
_   RELATIONS                              T       SUPERVISIONSUPPLY
DIVISION                   DIVISION       SECTION     SIONANCE                SECTION     S
SECTION SSECTIO
World Bank - 19802
z
Ft
Ix.



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC                                             Page 1
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE - IBB AND DHAMAR
Estimated Water Sales, Connections and Population Growth in IBB
8C
60
0
_____________         POPULATIO N        _ _ _ _ _  _   _  _I_  _        _ _ _ _ _  _
o430EF                                                                                               4000
0
F- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ o
:t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
E                _
20                                                           WAITER  SALES            2_,000
l~~~~~~~~ .r
, 4tg < ~~~~~~~~~~/                                                =_C50
1 0                                                                           -                   000
9                                  / _9 _                                                         000
7                                                                                                7 -000
4-                     ..  ~~~~~WATER CONNECTIONS_____
6;6 00
F                      ___________ T                                       SW RCONNECTIONS  5oo
z           4
U1 4                                                                                                    39 400
z
2L                                                                                                  300
19~7 8         19L80           1982            19L84           19L86           1988            1990
YEAR
World Bank - 19801



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC                                               Page 2
WATER SUUPLY AND SEWERAGE - IBB AND DHAMAR
Estimated Water Sales, Connections and Population Growth in Dhamar
70
40OP                               LA ION                                                            4000__ _   __ _ _ _ __   _ __ _ _ _
C  30                                                                                           U- 3000
20                                                      - WATER SALES                             2000
i910                                                                                             1000   u
9                                                                                                900    <
-LJ
0 97                          / S     8          8               8               8               9
8                 -1800
7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1700
6              VA~~                           .    WATER CONNECTIONS60
5                                                                     ,,"SEWER CONNECTIONS            0
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)0
H- 4 -    A*                                                                                         400
C)           .,-'-300
2                                                                                                200
11 _______________   ______________________   _______100
1978           1980            1982            1984            1986            1988            1990
YEAR
World Bank - 19800



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE - IBB AND DHAMAR
Project Implementation Schedule
Ca_nda Ye,1978                   1979                  1980                   1981                   1982                  1983                   1984
1    2    3    4     112         3    4     1 2         3    4         1    2    3    4       1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4     1    2  | 3         4
ASSOCIATION                                      P        A   Rt     N      8    IAL                                 DIS1URSEMENT   _           _     _NL                                           _
PROJECT ACTIVITIES
FINAL DESIGNS & HYROGEOLOGICAL STUDIES                                EXECUTION
OPERATIONAL ASSISTANCE                                                                                                        EXECUTIONI
CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION                                                                                                       EXECUTIO
WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
TENDER NO. 1 -WELLS & CONNECTING LINES                                                     TP    T   _-          DRILLING    ICONNECTION
7v         r'm i                   IILINEST
TENDER NO.2-PIPE&APPURTENANCESUPPLY                                                     TP I T   E       DELIVERY                                                                     I
TENDER NO.3-CIVILWORKS-TRANSMISSION                                                              TP    V !,            i             CONSTRUCTION
& NETWORK                                                                                I        P T
TENDER NO. 4- MECH/ELEC. EQUIPMENT                                                                                                                                                                               LATP    TE8M  CONSTRUCTION
& INSTALLATION                                                                                        /
- HOUSE CONNECTIONS                                                                         /                       M          CONSTRUCTION
SEWERAGE COMPONENT                                 ASSOCIATION                                         /                                         -          -
TENDER NO. 5 - PIPE & APPURTENANCE SUPPLY          P  = Preappraisal Mission            TP |T   E        DELIVERY
A  =Appraisal Mission
NOI 6  CIVIL WORS                         IRt    Appraisal Report                         T     T   E  '                    ' ONI'TRUCTION
TENOER NO.6-CIVILWORKS                             N  - NegotiationsT    E                                                          CONSTRUCTION
TENDER NO. 7- MECH./ELEC. EQUIPMENT               |P =T  Ed                                                                        1 ApproIl
& INSTALLATION                                   ACTIVITIES                                                     jt.         ICONSTRUCTION                                           $
TENOER NO. 8 - TREATMENT PLANT                     T     Tender PreparatIn                                            C  I    NjM       CONTRUCTION              I    j
T     Tenenn
- HOUSE CONNECTIONS         |         M      Mobilizatio,,                                                                       CONSTRUCTION
World Bank - 19803



- 36 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
NATIONAL WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY (NWSA)
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FrNANCIAL FORECASTS
General
1.        Rates of Inflation
Foreign         Local      Other
Imported    Contractors   Contractors   Local
Equipment   Civil Works   Civil Works   Costs
1979                      6.5            7.5           30.0        15.0
1980                      6.0           7.0            25.0        15.0
1981                      6.0           7.0            20.0        15.0
1982                      6.0           7.0            20.0        15.0
1983                      6.0            7.0           20.0        10.0
1984                      6.0            7.0           20.0        10.0
1985                      6.0           7.0            20.0        10.0
Income Statements
2.        The forecasts assume an increase in the average tariff for water of
35% in 1980 and 25% annually thereafter. Sewerage charges are assumed to be
introduced at the level of long run incremental cost and maintained at that
level by bi-annual adjustments.
3.        Other operating revenue consists of a one-time connection charge
for both water and sewerage and are related to the number of connections pro-
jected to be installed in each year. The charges are assumed to grow by the
local inflation rate.
4.        Operating costs comprise:
(a)  Personnel costs based on the current staffing levels of the
different branches of NWSA and the Head Office as well as
discussions between NWSA and the mission as to how the
staffing patterns will develop in future years. Staff have
been divided into four categories with average costs at
1978 levels. Having determined the number of people required
in each category in subsequent years, the costs were escalated
annually at the local inflation rate.
(b)  Other operating expenses broken down into fixed and variable
costs and escalated in proportion to system expansion. Fixed
costs were escalated at a higher rate than variable costs to
reflect a higher local element. Fixed cost volume was increased
5% annually for established branches and 10% for those branches
which were becoming operational.



- 37
ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        Depreciation expense has been based upon a detailed analysis of all
annual depreciation rates and then reclassifying them into two broad headings--
water and sewex.ge--for forecast purposes. Water supply assets were depre-
ciated at 3.25% per annum and those of sewerage at 2.75%.
Balance Sheet
6.        Fixed assets are shown at cost and without revaluation.  Interest
costs have been capitalized up to the date of commissioning of each asset.
7.        The cost of additional on-line technical assistance included in the
project (para 6.04) has been capitalized as "deferred expenses" and written
down by 20% annually as from 1983 when the project becomes operational.
8.         Stocks have been assumed to grow in proportion to system size as
reflected in variable costs with additional provision for meter replacements.
Receivables are assumed at 90 days sales in the beginning, gradually decreas-
ing to 75 days plus 20% of connectioIn charges.
9.        Accounts payable have been assumed at two months variable operating
costs.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT FOR IBB AND DHAMAR
NATIONAL WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORrrY
INCOHE STATEMENTS - YEARS ENDED JUNE 30
1976         1977         1978         1979         1980         1981         1982         1983          1984         1985
---- ACTrUAL ----      ESTIMATED       -------------------------------- FORECAST ----------------------------
Sales (million ma)   Water                                                 -            -         6.17         9.18        10.22         11.35        14.05        18.12        21.22        24.13
Sewerage                                           -            -           -            -            -            -           5.78         7.28        11.04        13.23
Average Revenue (YRls./m3)    Water                                        -            -          1.24         1.86         2-50         3.13         3.91         4.69         5.80          7.00
Sewerage                                  -            -           -            -            -            -           6.00         6.70          6.70         8.00
--------------------------___----_------------- (YRIs. millions) ----------------------------------------------
OPERATING REVENUE
Sales Revenue - Water                                                   1.52         2.37         7.65        17.07        25.55         35.53        54.94        84.98       123.08       168.91
- Sewerage                                                -            -            -            -            -             -          34.68        48.78        88.32       105.84
Other Income  - Water                                                   0.21         0.21         0.38         0.38          0.56         0.67         0.96         1.59          1.51         1.21
- Sewerage                                                -            -            -            -             -            -           3.71         4.06         3.68         1.80
Head Office Subsidy                                                     0.55         0.91         1.57                                                  -            -            -             -
Total Revenue                                                   2.28         3.49         9.60        17.45        26.11        36.20        94.29       139.41        216.59       277.76
OPERATING EXPENSES
Operating Costs - Water                                                 0.76         0.93          6.17         8.13        14.51        16.82        17.76        24.75        31.99         37.03
- Sewerage                                              -            -            -            -            -             -           7.58        18.44        23.73        29.08
Depreciation    - Water                                                 0.31         0.38         0.38         4.78          4.79         5.11        14.71        26.00        27.55        27.83
-       - Sewerage                                               -            -            -            -            -            -          11.89         23.21        25.33        25.79
Total                                                           1.07         1.31         6.55        12.91        19.30        21.93        51.94        92.40        108.60       119.73
Contribution to overhead and finance charges - Water                    1.21         2.18          3.05        4.54          6.81        14.27        23.43        35.82        65.05       105.26
- Sewerage               -            -            -            -            -            -          18.92        11.19        42.94         52.77
1.21         2.18         3.05        4.54          6.81        14.27        42.35        47.01       107.99       158.03
Head Office Expense                                                     1.01          1.88         2.73         3.74         4.86         5.31         8.27         9.39        11.15         12.41
0.20         0.30         0.32         0.80         1.95         8.96        34.08        37.62         96.84       145.62
Interest                                                                0.04         0.03         0.04          2.00         3.50         9.50        12.78        16.09        37.25         36.05
Hodeida/Taitz Pre-acquisition profit                                      -            -           0.23          -            -            -            -            -             -            -
NET INCOME                                                      0.16         0.27         0.05        (1.20)       (1.55)       (0.54)       21.30         21.53        59.59       109.57
Operating Ratio - Water                                                   62           55           82           74           74           61           58           59            48           38
- Sewerage                                              -            -            -            -            -             -            51           79           53           51
Rate of Return                                                           16.7         18.7          5.0          1.4          1.8          7.6          7.0          3.1           6.6          9.1



ANNEX 4
39 -                                                      Table 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE FOR IBB AND DNAMAR
NATIONAL WATER AND SEWERAGE AlTBURITY
SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
1977         1978          1979          1980          1981         1982          1983          1984          1985
ACTUAL         ---------------- --- -PROJECTED ------------------------------------------
------------------------------__--------------- (YRls. Millions)               --------------------------------        -
Net Operating Surplus/Deficit                  0.30          0.09          0.80         1.95          8.96         34.08        37.62         96.84         145.62
Depreciation & Staff Retirement
Fund Increase             0.33          3.26          5.59         5.89         6.38         28.37         52.0ff        56.14         57.50
Internal Cash Generation                0.83          3.35          6.39          7.84        15.34         62.45        89.62        152.98         203.12
Increase/Decrease in Working Capital         0.78         1.72        (18.13)        (8.19)        (0.44)      ( 2j. 33      45.49 )       (98.55)     (119.25)
Borrowing                                   12.46        15.96         86.07        125.78       119.54        120.54         72.93           -            -
Equity
Government Equity
Contributions                 , 16.30         47.04        200.52       336.76        386.68        102.53         30.91          -             -
Consumer Contributions                    -           1.34          1.92          2.78         3.35         23.34         28.25         25.96        15.03
Sources of Funds                            30.37        69.41        276.77        464.97       524.47        283.53        176.22         80.39        98.90
Less   Debt Service:
Interest on loans & Credits             0.03          1.76          6.14         11.67        20.08         29.55         34.93        37.25         36.05
Amortization of loans & Credits           -             -            -            1.14          6.93        10.66         17.41         17.41        36.56
Total Debt Service                    0.03          1.76          6.14         12.81        27.01         40.21         52.34        54.66         72.61
FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR INVESTIfWNT             30.34        67.65        270.63        452.16       497.46        243.32        123.88         25.73         26.29
Capital Investment Program
Existing: Sana'a Water I                  -            -           36.98
Hbdeida Water                  -             -          15.91         34.23         20.48          1.69         1.91          0.87          0.80
Hodeida Sewerage               _             -          45.79         97.37         75.73          3.30         3.80          1.40          1.00
Sans'a Water II                -             -          54.20         77.06         70.97         4.20          4.24          4.30          4.50
Sana'a Sewerage                -             -          57.79         73.18         53.31         10.00        15.31          7.23          7.50
Taiz Water                     -             -          28.49         58.98         57.61         25.87         8.16          1.64          1.50
Taiz Sewerage                  -             -           24.47        82.01         72.26         30.76          3.34         4.85          5.00
Proposed: Tbb Water                       -            -            1.55          1.77        29.85         31.28         15.67          1.19         1.31
Ibb Sewerage                   -             -           1.55          9.30         34.73        41.50         25.86          1.43          1.57
Dhamar Water                   -             -            1.80         2.09         37.40         47.54        14.75          1.18          1.30
Dhasar Sewerage                -             -           1.80          9.78         37.40         42.16        26.22          1.64          1.81
Headquarters Progras                      -            -             -            5.79         5.90          3.20          2.80           -            -
Deferred Expenditure                      -            -            0.30          0.60         1.82          1.82          1.82           -            -
TOTAL CAPITAL INVESTMENT PROGRAM            30.34        67.65        270.63        452.16        497.46       243.32        123.88         25.73         26.29
Debt Service Cover                            131.3        5.0            -           0.4            0.5         1.6           1.9           2.8          2.7



YMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWRGE FIS IBB AND DHANAR
NATIONAL WATER AM) SEWERAGE AUTrIRITY
BALANCE SHEETS AS AT JUNE 30
1976         1977          1978 L-      1979          1980         1981          1982          1983         1984          1985
-     ACTUAL -----          ------------------------------------------ PROJECTED ------------------------------------------
__--___--___________________________________--_------- ('fRls Itillinns.) ---------------------------------------------------
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Cross Fixed Assets                                        1.77          2.99        12.76       114.07        122.96        142.57       881.94       1650.84       1776.36      1802.65
Less: Depreciation                                        0.55         0.97          2.68         7.54         12.43         17.67        44.43         91.87       143.01        194.92
Net Fixed Assets                                      1.22         2.02         10.08      106.53         110.53       124.90        837.51       1558.97      1633.35       1607.73
Add   Work in Progress                                   12.21        40.29         9828        271.44        722.28       1208.89       727.79         99.79
Total Fixed Assets                                   13.43        42.31        108.36      377.97         832.81      1333.79       1565.30       1658.76      1633.35       1607.73
Deferred Expesses                                         1.21         2.25          3.43         3.73          4.33          6.15         7.97          7.83          5.87         3.91
14.64        44.56        111.79       381.70        837.14      1339.94       1573.27      1666.59       1639.22       1611.64
Current Assets
Storks                                                    0.24         1.76          2.82         5.30          8.48         12.42        18.72         28.94        42.58         56.96
Accounts Re-eivahle (less: Bad Debt Reserve)              3.14          7.09        14.09 /b       7.45        10.80         14.14         36.40        51.87         75.89        92.30
Cash                                                      0.81          3.14         8.98          7.84        10.76          5.50         9.76         36.89        108.78       287.54
Total Current Assets                                  4.19        11.99         25.89        20.59         30.04        32.06         64.88        117.70       227.25        356.80
Less:   Accounts Payable                                 (0.83)        (7.18)      (20.75)        (0.50)       (0.62)        (0.75)        (1.31)       (2.08)        (3.29)        (3.78)
Deposits                                         (1.42)       (3.65)        (5.70)       (2.52)        (3.66)       (5.11)       (12.04)       (18.60)      (28.39)       (38.20)
Net Current Assets                                    1.94         1.16         (0.56)       17.57         25.76        26.20         51.53         97.02        195.57       i.
TOTAL NET ASSETS                                    16.58        45.72        111.23.       399.27       862.90       1366.14      1624.80       1763.61       1834.79      1926.46
FINANCED BY:
Equity
Government Contributions                                  8.19        24.49         71.53 /c    272.05        608.81        995.49      1098.02       1128.93       1128.93      1128.93
Cus..ser Contributions                                     -             -           1.34          3.26         6.04          9.39         32.73        60.98         86.94        101.97
Retained Surplus                                         (0.02)         0.14         0.41          O.6          (0.74)       (2.29)        (2.83)       18.47         40.00        S. S
Surplus of year                                           0.16         0.27          0.05         (1.20)        (1.55)       (0.             .30        2L53          59.59       109.37
Total Equity                                          8.33        24.90         73.33        274.57       612.56       1002.05      1149.22       1229.91       1315.46      1440.06
Staff Retiresent Fund                                     0.08         0.19          1.31          2.04         3.04          4.18          5.79         8.39         11.43         15.06
lEng Term Debt                                           8.17         20.63         36.59        U2.66        247.30       359.91        469.79        525.31       507.90        471.34
TOTAL FINANCING                                      16.58        45.72        111.23        399.27       862.90       1366.14      1624.80       1763.61       1834.79       1926.46
Debt Equity Rati.:                                       50:50       45:55          33:67        31:69        29:71         26:74         29:71        30:70         28:72        25:75
/a   -  Hodeids (3/31/78) and Taiz (10/31/78) taken over by NWSA and consolid-ted as fro. 1978. Operating results _a         d by Nh'SA as fr. these
dates.  Existing assets, liabilities, depreciation and other reserves assmed purchased by NWA  in 1978 fen G.ver.ent ceutributed eapital.
/b      Includes YR1a. 7.64 miSion advante pay-ents.  Frm. 1979 these have not been sthn-  since 100l   of costt tinn projet  are fuded by
Goverisent equity or loan.
L -  Includes net value of Hodeida assets. liabilities and pm-takeover 1978 profit  cquired fr-. the Purt Athority (YRI. 3.09  illion);
nd the net Tai  assets less liabilities nnd prm-takeover 1978 los  acquired by NlSA (YRis. 7.99 sillioss)



- 41 -
ANNEX 5
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WkTER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE FOR IBB AND DHAMAR
NATIONAL WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
FY and Quarter                           Disbursements at           Cumulative
end of Quarter          Disbursement
U----______ US$ ('000)       
1980
2nd Quarter                                      80                      80
3rd & 4th Quarters                               90                     170
1981
lst & 2nd Quarters                           1,680                    1,850
3rd & 4th Quarters                           2,280                    4,130
1982
1st & 2nd Quarters                            3,800                   7,930
3rd & 4th Quarters                           2,600                   10,530
1983
1st & 2nd Quarters                              540                  11,070
3rd & 4th Quarters                              520                  11,590
1984
1st & 2nd Quarters                              410                  12,000



ANNEX 6
-42 -                                Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE FOR IBB AND DHAMAR
NATIONAL WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
KEY INDICATORS FOR NWSA OPERATIONS
1979    ..,,.......  1988
I.   Physical Criteria
(a) Sana'a:
Water produced (1,000 m3/year)
Water sold (1,000 m3/year)
Unaccounted-for water (M)
Volume of sewage treated
Number of water connections
Number of sewerage connections
Number of metered connections
(b) Hodeida:
(Same as above)
(c) Taiz:
(Same as above)
(d) Ibb:
(Same as above)
(e) Dhamar:
(Same as above)
II. Financial Criteria
Rate of Return (NWSA)
Internal Cash Generation (NWSA)
Debt service coverage (NWSA)
Average revenue per m3 sold - Sana'a
Hodeida
Taiz
Ibb
Dhamar



ANNEX 6
3 .. Page 2
1979 .1988
II. Financial Criteria (Continued)
Operating expenses per m3 sold - Sana'a
Hodeida
Taiz
Ibb
Dhamar
Number of permanent employees  - Sana'a
Hodeida
Taiz
Ibb
Dhamar
III. Water Quality
(a) Sana'a:
Total dissolved solids (average)
Hardness (average)
Nitrates (average)
pH (average)
(b) Hodeida:
(Same as above)
(c) Taiz:
(Same as above)
(d) Ibb:
(Same as above)
(e) Dhamar:
(Same as above)



-44 -                                  ANNEX 7
YEMEN ARAB R1PUBLIC
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
FOR IBB AND DHAMAR
COST ESTIMATES
ITEM                            LOCAL    FOREIGN    TOTAL    LOCAL    FOREIGN    TOTAL    % OF
-- (YRls. '000) -----    ------ (US$ '000) -------    TOTAL
A. Ibb - Water Supply
Wells & Connection
lines             2,340       3,660    6,000       520         813    1,333       1.5
Collecting & Pumping
facilities            648       1,717    2,365       145         381       526       0.6
Power plant (well field)          333       1,747    2,080        74         388       462      0.5
Transmission line                 197       1,322    1,519        44         294       338      0.4
Headworks                         800       1,799    2,599       178         400       578      0.6
Power plant (headworks)            55         230      285        12          51        63      0.1
Distribution system             4,074      16,301   20,375       906       3,622    4,528       4.9
House connections               1,723       5,170    6,893       383       1,149    1,532       1.7
B. Ibb - Sewerage
Network                         6,081      24,322   30,403    1,352        5,404    6,756        7.4
House connections               2,062       6,187    8,249       459       1,374    1,833       2.0
Pumping station                   149         362      511        33          81       114      0.1
Treatment plant                 7,714       7,714   15,428    1,714        1,714    3,428        3.7
Power plant                       215         683      898        48         152       200      0.2
C. Dhamar - Water Supply
Wells                           1,036       4,344    5,380       230         966    1,196       1.3
Connection lines                  125         808      933        28         179       207      0.2
Collecting & Pumping
facilities           937       2,513    3,450       208         559       767      0.8
Power plant (well field)          357       1,938    2,295        79         431       510      0.6
Transmission line               1,470       9,835   11,305       326       2,186    2,512       2.7
Headworks                       1,936       2,928    4,864       430         651    1,081       1.2
Power plant (headworks)            44         151      195        10          33        43      0.1
Distribution system             4,244      16,975   21,219       943       3,772    4,715       5.1
House connections               1,662       4,984    6,646       369       1,108    1,477       1.6
D. Dhamar - Sewerage
Network                         6,465      25,857   32,322    1,436        5,746    7,182        7.8
House connections               2,126       6,376    8,502       472       1,417    1,889       2.0
Treatment plant                 8,348       8,350   16,698    1,855        1,856    3,711       4.0
Power plant                       172         539      711        38         120       158      0.2
E. Technical Assistance         1,367       4,101    5,468       304         911    1,215       1.3
F. Training                       180         720      900        40         160       200      0.2
SUB-TOTAL               56,860    161,633  218,493   12,636        35,918   48,554       52.8
G. Land acquisition            10,924        -      10,924    2,428         -        2,428       2.7
H. Administration
buildings                 600         400    1,000        133          89      222       0.2
I. Engineering (6%)             3,355      9,433   12,788        746       2,096    2,842       3.1
J. Construction
aupervision (5%)           3,215       9,040   12,255        714       2,009    2,723       3.0
K. Physical
contingencies (15%)        8,387      23,582   31,969    1,864        5,240    7,104        7.7
L. Price Escalation            79,944      46,343  126,287   17,765       10,299   28,064       30.5
TOTAL                  163,285    250,431  413,716   36,286        55,651   91,937    100.0



ANNEX 8
Table 1
YEHEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT FOR IBB AND DSMIAR
COST ESTIMATES FOR COF'INANCING AND CONTRACT IDENTIFICATION
ITEM                                     IOCAL           FOREIGNI        TOTAL                 LOCAL          FOREIGN         TOTAL
----- - (YR1s. '000) ----------                       ------_       (Ts$   000)  --------
I3B - WATER SIUPPLY
Wells & Conn. Lines - c.w.                     4883             4762           9645                  1085lOB1                       2143
- eqot.                    49             252             301                    11              56             67
Coll. & Pump. Fac.  - c.w.                     1218             1105           2323                   270             246            516
- eqmt.                   351            1354            1705                    78            301             379
Power Plant(Well    - C.w.                      283              255            538                    63              57            120
Field)         - eqet.                    580            2260           2840                    129            502             631
Transmission Line   - c.w.    V                 284             1130           1414                    63             251            314
- eqet.)   '              189              756            945                    42             168            210
Headworks             - c...                   1714             1536           3250                   381             341            722
- eqet.                   222            1044            1266                    49            232             281
Power Plant           - c.w.                     71               63            134                    16              14             30
(Beadworks)   - eqet.                     70              269            339                    15              60             75
Distribution          - c.w. )  1/             6120            14165          20285                  1360           3148            4508
Network        - eqet.)                 4076             9440          13516                    906           2098           3004
House Connections   - .w.. )  1/               2830            4639            7469                   629            1031           1660
- eqmt.)                 1885            3091            4976                   419            687            1106
IBB - SEWERAGE
Network               - c.w.                  10196           23597           33793                  2266            5244           7510
eqet.                  5022           11623           16645                  1116           2583            3699
House Connections   - c.w.                     3793             6204           9997                   843            1379           2222
eqnt.                  1868            3056            4924                   415            679            1094
Pumping Station       - c.w.                    306              116            422                    66              26             94
- eqat.                    84             404             488                    18              90            108
Treatment Plant       - c.w.                  18355            7125           25480                  4079            1583           5662
- aqat.                   766            3888            4654                   170            864            1034
Power Plant           - c.w.                    362              135            497                    80,             30            110
- aqnt.                   215             851            1066                    48             189            237
DRAMAR - WATER SUPPLY
Wells                 _ c.-.                   2071             5831           7902                   460            1296           1756
_ eqot.                   135             131             266                    30              29             59
Cons. Lines           - n.w.                     10               12             22                     Z               3              5
- eqmt.                   284            1104            1388                    63             245            308
Coll. & Pump. Fan.  - .  .w.                   1850            1680            3530                   411             373            784
- eqrt.                   403            1917            2320                    90            426             516
PFwer Plant           - n.w.                    253              246            499                    56              55            111
(Wellfield)      - eqet.                   610             2489           3099                    136            553            619
Tra-snission Line   _ c...  )  1/              2110            8419           10529                   469            1871           2340
- eqnt. )                1408            5611            7019                   313           1247            1560
enadwerks             - n.w..                  4600            4124            8724                  1022             917           1939
-eqmt.                     12               45             57                     3              10             13
Power Plant          - c,w.                      71               63            134                    16              14             30
(Neadworks)      - eqet.                    36              151            187                      8             34             42
Distribution          - c.w.  )  1/            6373           14748           21121                  1416           3277            4693
Network         - eqet. )  -             4248             9834          14082                    944           2185            3129
House Conen-tions   _ c.w.  )  I/              2732            4470            7202                   6i7             593           1600
- eqmt. )                1818            2980            4798                   404            662            1066
DRHAMR - SEWERAGE
Network               - c.w.                  10840           24844           35684                  2409            5521           7930
- eqmt.                  5339           12237           17576                  1187           2719            3906
Souse Connections   - c.w.                     3911            6394           10305                   870           1420            2290
- eqst.                  1926            3150            5076                   428             700           1120
Treatment Plast       - c.w.                  19330             7643          26973                  4296            1698           5994
- sqst.                   918            4348            5266                   204             966           1170
Power Plant           - c.w.                    204              102            306                    45              23             68
- eqet.                   182             680             862                    40             151            191
LAND & ADN11. BLDG.                           1'7 ez             764          18466                  3934             170           4104
TECNITCAL ASSISTANCE                           1367             4101           5468                  324              911           1215
7RAINNG                                        180              720            900                 _40               160            200
SUB-TOTAL                             156715           231958         388673                 34826           51546          86372
ENGINEERING                                    3355            9433           12788                   746           2096            2842
CONSTRIUCTION SUPERVISION                      3215             9040          12235                   714           2009            27Z3
TOTAL                                 163285           258431         413716                  36286          5.651          91937
cdown-  c.w.  - 607
eqmt. - 407



-46-                             ANNEX8
PTae 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT FOR IBB AND DHAMAR
COST ESTIMATES FOR COFINANCING AND CONTRACT IDENTIFICATION
FOREIGN EXCHANGE ASSEMBLAGES
Equipment       Civil Works        Total
- -- (us$  '000)               
I.    POWER PLANTS AND ENGINEERING
Power Plants
Ibb Water Supply: Well Field                       502               57            559
Head Works                      60                14             74
562               71            633
Dhamar Water Supply:  Well Field                   553               55             608
Head Works                  34               14              48
587               69            656
Tbb Sewerage                                       189               30            219
Dhamar Sewerage                                    151               23             174
Total                                 1,489              193           1,682
Engineering                                                                          2,096
TOTAL                                                                  3,778
II.   WELLS
Ibb Water Supply: Wells and
Connection Lines                   56            1,058          1,114
Dhamar Water Supply: Wells and
Connection Lines              274            1,299           1,573
TOTAL                                   330            2,357           2,687
III. CIVIL WORKS - WATER
Ibb Water Supply
Collection and pumping facilities                  301              246             547
Transmission line                                   -               251             251
Head Works                                         232              341             573
Distribution System                                 -             3,148          3,148
House Connections                                   -             1,031          1,031
Total                                   533            5,017          5,550
Dhamar Water Supply
Collection and pumping facilities                  426              373             799
Transmission line                                   -             1,871          1,871
Head Works                                          10              917             927
Distribution System                                 -             3,277           3,277
House Connections                                   -               993             993
Total                                   436            7,431           7,867
TOTAL                                   969           12,448          13,417



- 47 -
ANNEX 8
Table 2
Page 2
Equipment      Civil Works      Total
---------(US$  '000)   ______-__
IV.  CIVIL WORKS - SEWERAGE
Ibb Sewerage
Collection System                            2,583           5,244         7,827
Pump Station                                    90              26           116
Treatment Plant                                -             1,583         1,583
House Connections                              679           1,379         2,058
Total                              3,352           8,232        11,584
Dhamar Sewerage
Collection System                            2,719           5,521         8,240
Treatment Plant                                -             1,698         1,698
House Connections                              700           1,420         2,120
Total                              3,419           8,639        12,058
TOTAL                              6,771          16,871        23,642
PROPOSED IDA COMMITMENT
us$ ('000)
Water Supply Pipes and Equipment          7,100
Construction Supervision                  2,010
Technical Assistance                        910
Training                                    160
Unallocated                               1,820
TOTAL                  12,000



- 48 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT FOR IBB AND DHAMAR
Additional Information in Project File
Al        WHO/IBRD Water Supply and Sewerage Study, 1973.
A2        Rapid Assessment of Current and Projected Sector Development,
YAR, 1978.
A3        Public Health Statistics, YAR Ministry of Health/Central Planning
Organization, 1975.
BI        Population Estimates
B2        Land Use Master Plan
B3        Estimates of Demand
B4        Feasibility Studies:  "Water Supply and Sewerage Systems for the
towns of Dhamar and Ibb", Italconsult, 1978.
Town of Ibb            Volumes I through IV
Town of Dhamar      : Volumes I through IV
B5        Presidential Decree Law No. 17 of 1978 - Law No. 13 of 1973 for the
Establishment of the National Water and Sewerage Authority.
B6        UNDP Project Document:  Rural Water Supply, Phase II.
B7        Project Design Report - Ta'izz Water Supply and Sewerage, Hazen and
Sawyer, June 1977.
B8        Feasibility Study of Water Supply and Sewerage for Taiz, James M.
Montgomery Inc. 1975.
B9        Development Plans for Sanaa', Al Hudaydah, Ta'izz, Ibb and Dhamar -
Louis Berger Int'l Inc. and Kampsax Int'l A/S, 1978.
C1        Existing Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal Services in Ibb and
Dhamar.
C2        Basis for Staff Estimates of Population and Water Demand.
C3        Technological Alternatives for Piped Sewerage.
C4        Basis for Cost Estimates.



-49                              ANNEX 9
Page 2
C5        Tariff Studies for Sana'a, Hodeida and Taiz.
C6        Water Supply Statistics, Ibb and Dhamar.
C7        Calculation of Least Cost Solution.
C8        Incremental cost of water and sewerage and Rate of Return
Calculations.
C9        Analysis of Ability to Pay.
CIO       Income and Expenditure Statements.






___________________________46'_                                                                                                                 IBRD   1405
50  056  6J4  ~~~~~~~~~".4''JANUARY 1979
S A U D  I   A R A B  I A
S0001*24*IA ~~  S'              DH-AHRAN
7 H X    Yr'lr'Afr^5 W   ./ lt >  NAJRAN                                     YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
00'   9  - - o9                 -~~~~~~~~~.             NAJRAN
50040        rs/-, //   \ /_                                         J---                     WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
IBB AND DHAMAR
0>~ 506 lulorla  0o^                                                                          *    Project Locations
-                      /0*  . ?/  r   J   |                                                      Paved PdmPry Roads
._________________________________  }SAMARA                                            - _     _   Primary  Roads Under Construchon
0
JtZAN,\                                        SAADAH                                              Other Roads
(.                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Airports
.   \   ' SAADAH
o   Cities, Towns and Villages
Ir,  UWAIR  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~*                             National Capitols
Z-'Main Wadis
Provincial Boundaries
_ e HARAD                                                          -      International Boundaries
3 C       ~~~MAID   -                    SHIHAR      \
HAJJ A                 HOo-                                               0     20    40    60    80     00
3          AL  12    /        HA~~~~~~FiMER                                                 FKIOMFIERS
*            l       ABS        \~~~~~~MAHABIA                 7                                                                            6
o         20        40         60
MILES
AI2KHUSHM       o    o 0       R        -      SAm  trsb                                                         0fy.,44 v 0*4t
A.DIA         LA                        1N         =ARIB
MAN
W    tBEIT Q  > 1t A P~~~~~~~A                R   ?                
IF  ZAI/DYAH                    A0JAIA
H"AZRYA     MAZADA 
3      1S1OWAI             AL  A AL            IB     N        0DMTH                   BED         r
JAoRt           M   NA                       i            DE\M   OCRAT  I C    R EHPUBLIC
EA T/H  I O P I A   a           ZJ
/   \,,_ .-.,-,./..
0                             G.                O f A.-
j/ ~~~~~~~~                                                 A            
/ DJI BO.||L .-UK NTI
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AXA                                                                                  '
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                     ~O                         






I BRD 14051
JANUARY 1979
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
KILOMETERS                                 \<                                          /             t4
PROJECT FEATURES:                                   //                                         5 J        //
- Intercepting 5ewers               Wf   s f                                 ) ,.Jfh,                4   (,o
*  PumpingStotions       of h r   t t  t o tth  The n t        t
Water Mains                                  -              _                     |)                   L   
OTHER FEATURES, l  I  h    o thea                                                                          1 o  t
Built-up Areas(1978)               \\\                                 )<              
- - City Limits in 1990                                  \|                (                            f         \
----  International Boundories an    r  n                          1t   t  o r t   n
S AetIf       n
A R AX 5 I A
S   1LC  t  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~= T                                                                          WO 
ETHIOPITh                         f, -d  f1._p 1\,>\h-  ,.A. TX -.,-  d.d h
f  (.p. kf- h0.






IBRD 14052
JANUARY 1979
We/ F,e/d/
Ca//ecting Tonk
DPumping SWation                                                              YEMEN  ARAB  REPUBLIC
\  N                                        WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
DHAMAR
\tRest oo,r
DHAMAR
IILOSEIt"S                                          0                  0.5                 1.0
I~~~~~~ I       TER
Reservoir                                                                             KILOMETRS
PROJECT FEATURES:
\  \  \.    g (Intercepting Sewers
Trunk Sewers
AR.                AfAR ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,D 'F A M '''''  <   io:
EGYPT  SAUDI  L.A.E.,k                                                                   Pumping Station
ARABIA                                                                                                  Water Mains
\-X        \        \                                                       PROTHER FEATURES:
SUDAN                                                                                                      *.IA: Built-up Areas (1978)
--- City Limits in 1990
jo                    Ayo, bigoI                 |        I                                                   -   International Boundaries
)        <~~~OMALIA             Tlt,o -ap h-sroc prepard by the Word Bn  tf   neyfrteO   a
Gthrd- of thepap  St Ah U It. .S a d. Th. dn-tmina tonsdad the
E HIOPIA Rb-t,i-h.- e                         thiapdon-ply, - th Iproth WAld B -nd Wdit
, sf t    any -dernentont eal st ofendorse
9         ~~~          ~~/    accesfptance of such bot,lhndao.



