Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2616-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT FOR IBB AND DHAMAR
August 14, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1978                               June 1979
Currency Unit  =  Yemen Rial (YRl)                    YR1
$1   =  YRls 4.50  1/                      4.50
YR1   =  $0.22                              0.22
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
CPO       -     Central Planning Organization
KfW       -     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Federal Republic of Germany)
IPWM      -     Ministry of Public Works And Municipalities.
NWSA      -     National Water and Sewerage Authority
RWSD      -     Rural Water Supply Division
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF    -     United Nations Children's Fund
USAID     -     United States Agency for International Development
WHO       -     World Health Organization
TAR       -     Yemen Arab Republic
1/ No par value for the Yemeni rial has yet been declared to the IMF.
All exchange transactions are affected at the Central Bank rate
which has been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT FOR IBB AND DHAMAR
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Yemen Arab Republic.
Beneficiary:         National Water and Sewerage Authority (NWSA).
Amount:              US$12.0 million.
Terms:               Standard.
Re-Lending Terms:   The Government of the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) would
re-lend the proceeds of the loan to NWSA at an interest
rate of 8 percent per annum payable over 20 years includ-
ing five years of grace.
Project
Description:         The project seeks to adequately provide a basic need--
potable water--as well as effective sewerage for the
people of the cities of Ibb and Dhamar, two of five
main urban centers of YAR, and to provide key assis-
tance to further develop the institutional and opera-
tional capability of NWSA. The project consists of:
(a) provision of water supply and piped sewerage
systems for Ibb (for the projected 1990 popula-
tion of 63,000), and for Dhamar (for the pro-
jected 1990 population of 70,000);
(b)  technical assistance to strengthen the opera-
tional, technical and financial capability of
NWSA; and
(c) training of NWSA staff.
The project will directly benefit the people of Ibb and
Dhamar since both cities have unsatisfactory water supply
systems that provide water in inadequate quantity and of
very poor quality, and rudimentary wastewater disposal that
constitutes a serious health hazard. The proposed water
supply systems will increase the quantity of water avail-
able in Ibb and Dhamar from the present level of about
0.4 million m3/year to more than 3.0 million m3/year in
each city by 1990. The project will also improve the
quality of the water available and, with the proposed
piped sewerage system, tend to decrease the incidence
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
of outbreaks of epidemic diseases by eliminating the
unsanitary conditions which presently exist in the two
urban centers. The risks are no greater than can normally
be expected with usual water supply and sewerage projects.
Groundwater resources in the Ibb and Dhamar areas can meet
the demand through 1990. The proposed systems for both
water supply and sewerage proved, after examination of
alternatives, to be the least cost solutions. Furthermore,
measures recommended to be taken in the course of project
implementation such as technical assistance and training
for NWSA staff, construction supervision, and monitoring
of key indicators of progress will ensure that the risks
involved are minimized to the fullest extent possible.
Estimated
Prolect Cost:                              Local    Foreian    Total
…----- $ (Million)
Ibb - Water                           2.3        7.1        9.4
Dhamar - Water                        2.6        9.9       12.5
Ibb - Sewerage                        3.6        8.7       12.3
Dhamar - Sewerage                      3.8       9.1       12.9
Land and Administration
Buildings                           0.3        1.1        1.4
Technical Assistance
and Training                        2.6        0.1        2.7
Sub-Total                            15.2       36.0       51.2
Engineering                           0.7        2.1        2.8
Construction Supervision              0.7        2.0        2.7
Physical Contingencies                 1.9       5.2        7.1
Price Escalation                      17.8      10.3       28.1
TOTAL                              36.3       55.6       91.9
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
------ $ (Million)
Government                36.3      0.0        36.3
IDA Credit                0.0      12.0        12.0
KfW Grant
(DM 20 m)                 -       10.0        10.0
Other External
Financing               0.0      33.6        33.6
TOTAL                     36.3     55.6        91.9



Estimated IDA
Disbursements:       FY              1980     1981      1982      1983     1984
Annual         0.17     3.96      6.40      1.06      0.41
Cumulative    0.17      4.13    10.53    11.59    12.00
Rate of Return:      10 percent. 1/
Appraisal
Report:              Report No. 2392a-YAR, dated August 7, 1979.
1/   Expected revenues utilized as a measure of the benefits of this project.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ILEPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR A WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
FOR IBB AND DHAMAR
1.        I submit the folloring report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of $12 million equivalent, on standard IDA terms, to the
Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), to help finance a water supply and sewerage proj-
ect in Ibb and Dhamar. The Kreditanstalt ftr Wiederaufbau of the Federal
Republic of Germany (KfW), will participate in financing the project. The
government has also requested the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Develop-
ment, and the Saudi Fund for Development to participate in the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A basic economic report entitled "Yemen Arab Republic:  Development
of a TraditLonal Economy," (Nio. 2057a-YAR), dated December 14, 1978, was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on January 3, 1979. Country data are
attached in Annex I.
Introduction.
3.        Over the last few years YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in
its socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. Follow-
ing the 1962 Revolution which ended the feudal rule of the Imam and opened the
country to the outside world, and after a protracted civil war that lasted
till mid-1970, the new repub:Lican government succeeded in establishing within
a surprisingly short period of time the foundations of a modern state. Tech-
nical ministries were strengthened, essential government institutions were
created such as the Central Bank and the Central Planning Organization, modern
budgetary and banking practices were introduced, and a reasonable level of
working effectiveness was aclhieved by the public administration. Tribal frag-
mentation, a major obstacle ito political stability in the past, is gradually
being overcome. Central government control has been spreading throughout the
country and continues to do so.
4.        Political integration and the growing influence of central authori-
ties have provided the basis for a rapid development of the public and private
sectors.  In 1973, the government, with the help of a Planning Assistance
Team in CPO financed by the Bank and the Kuwait Fund, launched a Three-Year
Development Program (1973/74-1975/76) which subsequently was implemented
1/   Similar to Part I of the President's Report for the Third Education
Project which was considered by the Executive Directors on May 22,
1979.



- 2 -
with the help of foreign technical and capital assistance. In its wake, the
physical infrastructure was expanded and communication links were built; first
attempts were made at lifting agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, out of
its medieval setting; industrialization was started, albeit on a small-scale;
education was spread at all levels; health services were improved; projects
were initiated to build urban water supply and sewage facilities; and rural
development was promoted through local development associations.
5.        More recently, especially since the quadrupling of international oil
prices at the beginning of 1974, there has been an unprecedented increase in
personal cash incomes based mainly on remittances by Yemenis who went to work
in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. It is estimated that net workers' remit-
tances rose from some $40 million in 1969/70 to over $1 billion in 1977/78.
Largely as a result of these cash inflows, YAR's per capita GNP has more than
doubled in real terms since 1969/70, reaching a level of about $580 in 1977/78.
While these developments, together with fast-growing government expenditures
for both investment projects and public services, have greatly alleviated
YAR's   traditional problems of poverty, famine and rural underemployment,
they have created new ones which require urgent attention in the future.
Malor Development Issues
6.        Foremost among these is the problem of manpower shortage which has
become the overriding constraint to YAR's development. This shortage has been
created by large-scale labor migration to neighboring oil countries which now
absorb an estimated 30 percent of YAR's male labor force. At the same time,
labor demand has increased sharply within the country as a result of develop-
ment programs initiated by the government, and a rapid expansion of private
business activity. Labor scarcities of both skilled and unskilled categories
are pervasive throughout the economy; but they are particularly pronounced in
the public sector, largely because salaries of civil servants are lagging
behind those offered in the private sector. This obviously places limitations
on the absorptive capacity of the public administration.
7.        Another major issue the government faces is to assure the rational
allocation of its rapidly growing investment resources. During the past, when
funds were more limited and modern facilities were sorely lacking, the authori-
ties found it relatively easy to select high-priority projects such as estab-
lishing the basic physical infrastructure, introducing modern education,
building irrigation works, power stations or a few factories. With the rapid
growth in development spending, however, the range of choices is increasing
very substantially and the long-term costs and benefits of individual projects
will not always be as obvious as in the past.
8.        A third issue concerns the proper maintenance of existing and new
capital stock. So far this question has not received sufficient attention by
the authorities, perhaps understandably so because of the newness of most
capital structures. However, as the stock of fixed capital increases--and
there is visible evidence of fast-growing numbers of public buildings, roads,
urban facilities, factories, power stations and irrigation schemes--the need



- 3 -
for adequate maintenance of these facilities becomes more and more pressing.
Introducing adequate maintenan,ce programs and establishing repair facilities
for machinery and equipment are therefore urgently required if past and future
investments are not to be wasted.
9.        These new problems of affluence as well as recent achievements in
development, remarkable as they are, should not detract from the fact that YAR
continues to face many of the problems of an underdeveloped country. Produc-
tivity levels are still extremely low, especially in agriculture which employs
about three-fourths of the resident labor force, reflecting the very limited
investment in physical capital made so far, as well as the predominance of
traditional production techniques.  Nine out of ten adults are illiterate and
only one out of every four chiLldren in the age group 6-11 is enrolled in
primary school.  Over 90 percent of the population resides in rural areas, a
large part in remote villages without access to modern transportation, schools,
electricity or health services. Moreover, there are serious physical con-
straints to development in YAR. The country's known natural resources are
limited and a rugged topography poses severe obstacles for road transport.
Agricultural land and water are scarce and few mineral deposits have been
discovered so far.
Government Objectives
10.       The government is addressing these issues, as reflected in its
development objectives outlined in the first Five-Year Development Plan for
the years 1976/77-1980/81. Building on the achievements of the Three-Year
Program (para. 4), the new Plan endeavors to further develop the country's
human and natural resources; to strengthen the physical infrastructure; to
raise the productivity of the commodity-producing sectors; and to improve the
standards of living of the people, giving priority to their basic needs for
food, health services, education, water supply and other community services.
To achieve its objectives, the government has launched an impressive invest-
ment and marnpower training program, in close cooperation with foreign donors
of capital and technical assistance.
11.       The Plan identifies investment opportunities in all major sectors,
especially :Ln transport, agriculture, industry, housing, education and public
health. The overall investment targets are very ambitious. They envisage an
increase in gross fixed capital formation from $170 million in 1975/76 to
$1,230 mill:Lon in 1980/81, iniplying an annual growth rate of almost 50 percent.
The overall investment volume during the five years of the Plan is to be $3.5
billion. A:Lthough not excessive for a country of YAR's size and population
(it represents an annual amount of about $150 per capita), because of the
steep increase in investment proposed by the Plan,it is important that the
technical feasibility and economic viability of projects be studied before
they are undlertaken.  In this context, the government has asked our assistance
in reviewing priorities of projects in selected sectors such as agriculture so
as to help channel resources into the most desirable areas. This work is
underway.
12.       Some progress is already being made in reaching the government's
objectives. One example is the port development project, in which IDA and



- 4-
the Kuwait Fund are participating, which is easing congestion in Hodeida and
will improve facilities in Mocha.  The project is designed to meet YAR's
requirements for port capacity up to 1985. Encouraging results are also being
achieved in education and manpower training. Enrollment in primary and
secondary schools is growing rapidly and programs in technical and vocational
training have been started. The University of Sana'a, established in 1970,
now has some 3,000 students, many enrolled in technical disciplines. A large
number of Yemeni students (about 2,300) also receive training abroad.
13.       Other issues still have to be addressed by the authorities.  They
include measures designed to strengthen the absorptive capacity of the public
sector; to broaden the tax base, thus providing financial resources for the
necessary increase in government salaries and essential public services; to
ascertain the economic viability of future investments so as to avoid sub-
optimal utilization of domestic and foreign resources; and to introduce effec-
tive maintenance programs for existing and new capital stock.
Economic Growth and Structural Change
14.       Since the end of the civil war in mid-1970, economic activity in YAR
has expanded vigorously. GDP at constant market prices is estimated to have
grown at an average rate of 11 percent a year between 1969/70 and 1977/78, and
about 10 percent in 1977/78. Economic growth was strongest in the modern
sectors, reflecting the rapid expansion of foreign and domestic trade, of
government services, of transportation and finance. There was also a rapid
increase of modern cash crops as farmers took a growing interest in raising
vegetables, fruits and poultry. Subsistence agriculture, still the most
important economic sector in YAR, grew at a much slower pace.
15.       The expansion of the modern sectors was the result of a variety of
factors. Fast growing cash incomes from workers' remittances opened new
markets for local merchants and farmers, and provided funds for private
investment in housing, transport equipment, agriculture and industry. This
coincided with a vigorous expansion of public development expenditures.
Initially through various ad hoc projects, but later in a more coordinated
form through its Three-Year Program and the Five-Year Plan, the government
increased its development spending from YRls 58 million ($13 million) in
1972/73 to YRls 1,183 million ($253 million) in 1977/78.
16.       The short period since 1970 has witnessed marked changes in the
structure of YAR's economy. The shares of modern agriculture, trade, trans-
port and government services in GDP have all increased while that of subsis-
tence agriculture declined from over 40 percent in 1969/70 to less than one
third in 1977/78. Even so, YAR's economy is still very much underdeveloped.
The contribution of cash farming and industry (including construction) to GDP
is still less than that of subsistence farming.
Domestic and External Finance
17.       The rapid growth in money incomes which YAR experienced in recent
years has led to a spectacular increase in overall savings far exceeding the



fast-growing investment level. In 1977/78, gross national savings reached
the equivalent of 29 percent of GNP compared with only 7 percent in 1972/73.
While this is, indeed, a very impressive achievement for a country of YAR's
low per capita income, the high savings rate was perhaps more accidental than
deliberate. Delayed consumer response to a massive growth of money incomes,
together with large capital transfers made by Yemeni businessmen returning
from Saudi Arabia, have swelled the pool of national savings to an extent
which may not be perpetuated in future years. The financial mechanism to
channel these savings for development also remains inadequate and developments
will be gradual.
18.       Most of Yemen's national savings are being generated by the private
sector. The national accounts suggest that in 1977/78 total private savings
were about YRls 3.5 billion ($790 million) or the equivalent of 24 percent of
GNP. It can be assumed that a large part of these savings originated from
workers' remittances, which are a major source of money incomes in YAR.
Recipients of those remittances often hesitate to spend them on consump-
tion items, partly as an insurance against future income fluctuations and
partly to save up for investments in housing, agricultural equipment, etc.
Savings are thus generated throughout the country, and their ownership is
widely distributed among diffEerent population groups. Financial assets in one
form or another can be found in the remotest village, although there is
probably some concentration in urban centers, such as Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida.
Large amounts of savings are also being generated in the trading sector (most
of which is in private hands), in some areas of agriculture (e.g., fruits and
vegetables), in real estate and, to a lesser extent, in the new manufacturing
sector.
19.       Public sector savings were negative until 1975/76, reflecting a
rather narrow tax base (8 percent of GNP in that year). However, in the last
two years tax revenue more than trebled--due largely to a surge in imports and
accordingly increases in import duties. As a result, the current budget
yielded a surplus of YRls 690 million ($153 million), in 1977/78 (see para-
graph 24).
20.       Nonetheless, government expenditures both for recurrent and capital
purposes, are likely to grow rapidly in future years to cover the needs of
expanded education and health services as well as for more effective mainte-
nance programs. It will also be necessary to improve the remuneration of
civil servants to retain qualified staff in the public administration and to
provide adequate incentives for new recruitment.
21.       The expected growth in current government spending calls for con-
tinued efforts in mobilizing additional revenues. Emphasis will have to be
given to improving the collection of existing taxes, especially import duties
which are yielding rapidly growing receipts as the import volume expands
further. A thorough review of the present structure of import tariffs would
be desirable in order to maximize the revenue impact of such duties. Other
promising sources of additional revenue would be excise duties, sales and
turnover taxes. There is also much scope for direct taxation of business
incomes. Hiowever, the administrative and political obstacles against



broadening the tax base are formidable, and in the meantime, generous foreign
aid is easing the burden on the current budget and finances a large part of
the government's capital expenditures (see paragraphs 25-27).
22.       The external financial position of the Yemen Arab Republic has
changed dramatically in recent years. While at the beginning of the current
decade foreign exchange was in short supply and a heavy debt burden forced
the government to request the rescheduling of major parts of its outstanding
commitments, the country has now entered a phase of comfortable balance of
payments surpluses and rapidly growing exchange reserves. The principal
reason for this change must be seen in the large and growing amounts of
workers' remittances and in the substantial aid flows, especially from Saudi
Arabia and other Arab oil-exporting nations.
23.       YAR's commodity exports are still extremely low, reflecting the
country's limited resource endowment and the underdeveloped state of its
economy. During 1973/74-1977/78 these exports averaged $13 million a year, or
the equivalent of less than 1 percent of GDP. Most exports are of agricultural
origin, with cotton, coffee and hides being the three major commodities.
Imports, on the other hand, have risen sharply from $120 million in 1972/73 to
$834 million in 1977/78. This upsurge in import demand reflects the rapidly
rising cash incomes, the full convertibility of the Yemen rial, and the
absence of import restrictions.
24.       With exports lagging behind the rapid growth of imports, YAR's
trade deficit reached about $827 million in 1977/78, about seven and a half
times as large as in 1972/73. However, YAR's import capacity is only mar-
ginally based on its export potential and depends increasingly on its strong
surplus position in the service sectors, especially workers' remittances. In
recent years net earnings from services have grown even faster than the trade
deficit. As a result, the balance on current account, which was in deficit
until 1974/75, changed to a surplus which reached $241 million in 1977/78.
Capital Flows and External Debt
25.       Since independence, YAR has received substantial amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifica-
tion as a "least-developed country," most of the aid was provided in the form
of grants and concessionary loans. Although a complete overview of all assis-
tance received by YAR is not possible because of information gaps, it can be
estimated that cumulative aid disbursements came close to $750 million by the
end of FY1976/77, of which more than half was disbursed in the last 3 years.
The principal donors were Saudi Arabia, the Gulf States, IDA, the USSR, China,
Germany and the USA.
26.       More than half of the total assistance given so far was provided as
grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and more recently, budget
support. Food aid has been provided through the World Food Program and a
number of bilateral donors. A large part of official grants has been made
available in the form of technical assistance. Given the extreme shortage of



- 7 -
skilled manpower in YAR, this type of aid has high priority and will be needed
by the country for many years to come. Besides the grants, YAR received
sizeable amounts of official loans and credits (see paragraph 28).  Drawings
on these loanis have increased in recent years, reaching $70 million in 1977/78.
More than three quarters of all official loans and credits have been committed
for the financing of specific projects with the main emphasis on roads; agri-
culture, including irrigation; and utilities. The remaining funds were given
for commodity assistance or as cash loans.
27.       The terms on which YAR has obtained official loan assist-   have
been very favorable. Loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of China
are, for the most part, free of interest. Western European countries have
generally charged between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2 percent. Interest rates
charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 percent to 4 percent. Loan
maturities range from 5-50 years with a median of 20-30 years.
28.       YAR's external public debt outstanding on June 30, 1978 was estimated
at $693 million, of which $363 million was disbursed. The major creditors were
IDA, the Arab Fund, USSR, China, Germany and the Kuwait Fund. 1/ IDA credits
accounted fcr $111 million or about 16 percent of the total debt reported.
Because of the very favorable terms of borrowing, the debt service payments
are estimated at only about $8 million for 1977/78, equivalent to less than
one percent of gross foreign exchange earnings (including workers' remittances).
Although service payments are expected to rise in the next few years, the
burden of such payments should continue to remain small in relation to YAR's
exchange earnings.
29.       In recent years YAR has accumulated large foreign reserves.  At the
end of June 1978 they reached. $1,302 million or the equivalent of more than
one year's imports.  This reflects rapidly rising exchange earnings, a rela-
tively high level of foreign aid, and last but not least the country's limited
absorptive capacity. YAR's imports are still at a low level (about $150 per
capita in 1977/78) and are likely to grow rapidly in future years. It should
be pointed out in this context that YAR's official reserves are not assets
earned by the State--as in the case of most oil-exporting countries--but
represent largely the counterpart of unspent private incomes which could be
drawn down as import levels rise. Workers' remittances and aid inflows, on
the other hand, are of more volatile nature and their volume could change
substantially within a relat:ively short time. YAR's present comfortable
reserve position may therefore be a passing phenomenon and could be eroded
quickly if recent trends in Eoreign exchange flows are not sustained. The
reserve position also has to be viewed in the context of the country's
dependence on agriculture and its vulnerability to the vagaries of weather.
A repetition of the severe drought which gripped YAR from 1966-72 would
necessitate the import of foodstuffs in even higher than the present volume,
*         adding substantially to the country's foreign exchange requirements.
1/   The Federal Republic of Germany recently converted all its aid to YAR to
gran ts .



- 8 -
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 1/
30.       The proposed credit would be the twenty-first 2/ to YAR, bringing
total IDA commitments to $185.8 million. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of IDA credits and Bank grants, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects, as of June 30, 1979. The World Bank strategy in YAR has
been threefold: to concentrate on developing the basic institutions, skills
and physical infrastructure which are prerequisites for development, to
develop production and income in the dominant productive sector, agriculture,
and to support the government in its desire to meet basic needs in rural
and urban areas. To develop infrastructure, IDA has extended three credits
for highways totalling $28.2 million, a $6 million credit for a port develop-
ment project, three credits for water supply and sewerage totalling $24.4
million, and a $10.0 million credit for power distribution. To assist in the
development of education, IDA has extended three credits for a total of $29
million, in support of primary and secondary teacher training, and second-
ary and vocational education. To develop rural infrastructure and to support
production and distribution in agriculture and agro-industry, IDA has made
seven credits for a total of $66.9 million. To develop industry, IDA extended
a $2.3 million credit in 1974 for an industrial estate project, designed to
stimulate investment for small-scale industry as well as to provide a model
for future industrial development, and a $7.0 million credit (approved in June
1978) for a textile rehabilitation project; in FY1978 an investment of $2.4
million by the International Finance Corporation (IFC's first activity in YAR)
was approved to help finance a dairy and juice project.
31.       The main constraint to YAR's social and economic development has
been, and will remain for some time, the critical shortage of manpower,
especially skilled, and the newness and weakness of its institutions. World
Bank strategy in YAR has placed emphasis on helping to strengthen Yemeni insti-
tutions and manpower capabilities, through increased training of local staff
and continued technical assistance, as well as through direct financing for
education. Thus all IDA projects in YAR contain substantial components for
technical assistance towards institution building. Two particularly important
examples of the World Bank's support for institution building have been in
the Central Planning Organization (CPO) and the Ministry of Agriculture. In
CPO, the World Bank (through three grants totalling $520,000) and the Kuwait
Fund have financed a team of planning and economic advisers so as to create a
planning machinery. In the Ministry of Agriculture, the Bank supplies the ser-
vices of seven advisors initially financed by UNDP with the Bank as executing
agency, and now financed jointly by IDA (under the second Tihama project) and
1/   Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report for the
Third Education Project which was considered by the Executive Directors
on May 22, 1979.
2/   Including the supplementary credit of $10.3 million for the first
Tihama project approved by the Board on April 9, 1976 (No. 376-1 YAR).



-9-
UNDP. The Central Agricultural Research Station at Taiz, which carries out
agricultural research for the country as a whole, is also financed as part
of this institutional support.
32.       Fuiture World Bank operations will concentrate on reinforcing the
institutional progress made in infrastructure, agriculture, and rural devel-
opment, and will seek to spread the benefits of development more widely
throughout YAR. Particular attention will be given to YAR's ability to
implement projects, by ensuring the availability of key staff and technical
assistance needed for successiEul implementation. A fourth Tihama agricultural
project, which will provide irrigation structures for Wadi Rima, has been
appraised. A second rural development project in the Southern Uplands, a
fisheries project, and a deveLopment finance project are in the preparation
stage. Future projects are expected to include regional electrification,
industry, urban development, and further rural development activities.
33.       YAR has contributed an increasing portion of local currency financ-
ing and is expected to continue to finance a rising portion of its development
expenditures in the future. Nevertheless, it remains among the least-developed
countries and requires special assistance through financing of a large part
of project costs, including local expenditures when necessary. As in the
past, the costs of future projects are expected to be substantially higher
than the amounts that IDA can provide, and we shall continue to cooperate
closely with other donors so as to maximize IDA's catalytic role in stimulat-
ing co-financing. IDA-supported projects, of which there have been 19
and for which credits amounting to a total of $173.8 million were made,
have led to about $201 million equivalent of co-financing from other aid
donors. In addition, co-financing of up to about $44 million is being sought
for this project.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Water Resources and Sewerage
34.       Almost all water supply in YAR is from groundwater or stored rain-
fall, as there are no significant permanent sources of surface water. Most
people obtaiLn water from shallow wells. Villages and rural areas still
depend primarily on hand-dug wells although some deeper wells are being
drilled. The main urban centers have severely limited piped water supply
systems, which are only now being expanded and modernized. The sector is thus
still very much underdeveloped. Existing water supply facilities are clearly
inadequate. Water shortages are common and widespread, and most wells are
contaminated. It is only within the past four years, with assistance from
IDA and other donors, that the sector has begun to develop.  Until the IDA-
assisted Walter Supply Project for Sana'a was launched in 1974 Sana'a was one
of the very few capital cities in the world without a public water supply
system. Hodeida, YAR's principal port, and Taiz, the third largest city, are
just starting to build adequate water supply systems with assistance from IDA
and other donors (see para. 44). Ibb and Dhamar, which are marketing and



- 10 -
administrative centers of some of the most productive agricultural regions in
YAR, and the fourth and fifth largest cities respectively, still only have very
limited water supplies provided by local cooperatives and private enterprises.
35.       There are no large scale municipal sewerage systems yet in operation
anywhere in YAR, although such systems are to be constructed under ongoing
projects in Sana'a, Hodeida, and Taiz, with assistance from IDA and other
donors, since in each of these cities the volume of wastewater generated by
the establishment of a large community water supply system will require piped
sewerage. The common problems of extremely narrow streets in old town areas
and unfavorable soil conditions tend to preclude the application of other
forms of wastewater disposal.  Sewage treatment in Sana'a and Hodeida will be
effected through the use of aerated lagoons. In Taiz, treatment will include
trickling filters in addition to aerated lagoons. Rudimentary collection
systems exist in other towns but these are ineffective and insanitary.
Sector Organization
36.       The Ministry of Public Works and Municipalities (MPWM) 1/ was, until
November 1973, responsible for planning and executing all government projects
in the sector. In November 1973 the government decided (following IDA advice)
to establish the National Water and Sewerage Authority (NWSA), as an inde-
pendent government entity to provide for the urgently needed development of
the water and sewerage sector in urban areas. IDA played a key role in NWSA's
establishment, through the Sana'a Water Supply Project (Credit 464-YAR) which
provided necessary technical assistance.
37.       Control of NWSA is vested in a seven member Board.  The Chairman of
the Board has ministerial rank and is directly responsible to the Prime
Minister. Other members of the Board include representatives of the Minis-
tries of Public Works and Municipalities, and Finance, the Government Account-
ing Section, local governments and the private sector. Under the Board is the
General Manager who oversees the various departments of NWSA--Finance, Admin-
istration, Engineering and Operations, as well as the branch offices.
38.       Since its establishment little more than four years ago, NWSA has
gradually built up its institutional capability, working closely with IDA.
Starting with a staff of only a chief water engineer and a few technicians,
NWSA has now about 300 staff members. Continuing recruiting efforts, combined
with a salary structure competitive with that of private industry, have
allowed NWSA to appoint and retain adequately qualified personnel. However,
many of the new recruits are young and relatively inexperienced; training and
technical assistance (including provision of expatriate staff) continue to be
essential for NWSA's institutional development. Each of the three IDA credits
thus far to the sector has included technical assistance and training that were
instrumental in developing NWSA's institutional and operational capabilities,
1/   A distinct Ministry of Municipalities was recently established.



- 11 -
to which other donors have also contributed. A basic training program for
NWSA personnel is underway with the assistance of a UNDP project, for which
WHO is the executing agency, while the Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development and USAID are finaLncing training and advisory staff for technical
planning, finance, administration and maintenance.
39.       The law establishing NWSA provides for it to take over the existing
water supply systems in the five main urban centers, Sana'a, Hodeida, Taiz,
Ibb and Dhamar. Subsequent legislation requires it to take over any system
for which external borrowing is required. NWSA took over the existii.6 Sana'a
waterworks and staff from the Sana'a Cooperative in November 1974; in 1976, it
took over the operations of the Hodeida water supply system from the Ports
and Marine Affairs Corporation.  Transfer of the physical assets of both the
Hodeida and Taiz systems has taken place. The USAID-financed water supply
system in Taiz, the first comrmunity network constructed in YAR, is currently
operated by ithe Taiz Cooperat..ve Organization but will pass to NWSA soon. The
existing water supply facility for Ibb is operated by a cooperative, while in
Dhamar the responsibility rests with a semi-public organization.
Sector Strat,egU
40.       The government's development strategy for the sector is determined
by its desire to provide basic needs--in this case, potable water and adequate
sanitation--to its people in a manner that would best utilize its limited
resources of trained engineers and technicians, and of finance. First
priority was accorded to the main five cities because their concentration of
population was conducive to outbreaks of water-associated diseases, and
because the concentration allowed maximum use of the limited resources
available. No other town in YAR has a population larger than about 15,000.
41.       Another vital part of the sector strategy is the continuous develop-
ment of the manpower required.   At present, the government must continue to
rely on expatriate technical assistance to carry out its program, since so few
Yemenis are qualified to fill NWSA's requirements. The long range development
of the sector's instituitional capability will depend on a sustained effort to
provide training for local personnel, in support of which IDA and other donors
have provided and are expected to continue to provide assistance.
Rural Water Supply
42.       Although emphasis has been placed on urban water supply and sewerage,
the government has not neglected the rural areas, although progress has so far
been limited.  The Rural Water Supply Division (RWSD) of the Ministry of
Public Works was established in 1972 and is responsible for all rural water
supply development and for coordinating external assistance for such projects.
Headed by a Deputy Minister, the Division has a small staff of local techni-
cians assisted, under a $1.5 million UNDP project, by a WHO sanitary engineer
and three UN volunteers. The UNDP project also provides fellowships, funds
for expatriate technical assistance, and training of villagers to manage and
operate rural water supply systems.



.
1- iiw -
43.       Assistance for rural water supply, in the form of design, financing,
materials and technical assistance, has been provided by a varlit;, of donor
agencies, including UNICEF, the United Nations Capital. Development Fund, Abu
Dhabi, the Federal Republic of Germany, Iraq, Japan, the Netherlands, Qatar,
Saudi Arabia and the United States. IDA-assisted agricultural projects in YAR
have also included rural water supply components (see paragraph 44).
Local Development Associations are also very active in rural water
supply.
Previous IDA Lending in the Sector
44.       IDA has played a major role in the development of the YAR water
and sewerage sector, both in its financial contribution and more importantly,
in its support for institution building and sector policy development. Three
credits have been made specifically for water and sewerage:
(i) in 1974, of $6.25 million (464-YAR) for water supply in
Sana'a;
(ii)  in 1975, of $8.1 million (559-YAR) for the water supply
component of the Hodeidah water and sewerage project. The
Arab Fund lent about $20 million for the sewerage component;
(iii)  in 1977, of $10 million (670-YAR) for expansion of the Sana'a
water supply system, and to start construction of a sewer-
age system. This project is cofinanced with the Arab and
Saudi Funds.
Rural water supply components are also included in the Southern Uplands Rural
Development project of 1975 and the Second and Third Tihama projects of 1978
and 1979. An urban development project is under preparation, which will
also include water and sewerage components, and we intend to maintain involve-
ment in the sector.
45.       The three water and sewerage projects were initially
delayed, but progress is now satisfactory. In the first Sana'a project, the
Yemeni civil works contractor withdrew after experiencing financial difficul-
ties; NWSA then appointed an international firm under a cost-plus contract,
and the civil works were    finished in mid-1979, about 15 months late.  For
the Hodeidah project, rebidding was required because of inadequate response:
civil works contracts were finally awarded early in 1979. After delays in
design and procurement for the second Sana'a project, awards of civil works
contracts are now underway. All three projects are experiencing cost over-
runs, totalling about YRls 186 million (para. 62) mainly because of the steep
inflation in construction costs in recent years in YAR, which are being met by
the government.
46.       IDA Strategy.  Through its lending to the sector, IDA assists the
government in providing basic needs, in lessening the risk of outbreak of
epidemic disease, and in ensuring sensible selection, preparation and design
of priority projects; IDA has played and will continue to play a key role



- 13 -
in institution-building. The success of IDA involvement in the development of
NWSA as a technically capable organization is evident in the reduced delay in
project execuLtion and in its increasing confidence, which enables it to under-
take greater responsibility for project implementation.
47.       Nevertheless, much remains to be done, given the present backward
state of the sector. Further development will still depend largely on the
financial and technical support given by external agencies. In this regard,
IDA has played a pivotal and catalytic role in mobilizing co-financing
for projects in the sector. So far, IDA's contribution of $24.4 million in
the sector has secured $51.8 million from other donors. With the proposed
project, IDA's contribution increases to $36.4 million while the contribution
of other donors is expected to rise to $95.8 million if all the co-financing
foreseen materializes.
Project Area
48.       Ibb and Dhamar, the fourth and fifth largest towns in YAR, each have
a population of about 30,000. They are marketing and administrative centers
of productive agricultural regions. Ibb, in the southern maritime climate
region, enjoys the highest average rainfall in the country, over 1,400 mm per
year. Dhamar, in the central "transition" climatic zone, 130 km south of
Sana'a, has an average rainfall of 400-500 mm.
49.       Water Systems.  The Ibb water supply system has been operated since
1963 by a quasi-municipal cooperative which owns the existing source and
distribution facilities. Water comes from two different sources. The first
is through a rudimentary intake and masonry channel from the seasonal Wadi
Badan, flowing into a central cistern during the two-to three-month rainy
season. The second, a well field south of the town, includes three drilled
wells (total. yield of 20 liters per second). Approximately 1,300 cubic meters
of water is produced daily, but system losses are such that total consumption
is about 1,000 cubic meters. There are approximately 3,000 house connections
in the system, of which about 350 are metered. Those households which are not
connected obtain their water from the 20 public taps currently in use, from
connected neighbors, or from the 32 mosques, all of which are connected to the
public water supply and which are a traditional source of water in Moslem
countries.
50.       TLe Dhamar water supply system has been operated since 1965 by a
cooperative, in which a portion of the financial interest is privately-owned.
Dhamar depends exclusively on groundwater. A large hand dug well, southwest
of the city, and two drilled wells, one in the town center and the second
south of the city, are the maLjor sources, yielding a total of about 18 liters
per second. There are over 3,000 house connections, of which about 1,600 are
metered. There are eight operable public taps, and of the 40 mosques in the
city, 33 are connected to the existing system. Consumption is about 900 cubic
meters per clay although over 1,200 cubic meters is produced.
51.       Tle existing systems provide sub-standard service to approximately
80 percent of the towns' present populations. Because of supply and distribu-
tion limitat:ions, consumption is at the low rate of about 30 to 35 liters per



- 14 -
capita per day. (As a comparison, overall daily average consumption in 1978
in Hodeidah was about 66 liters per capita, and in Sana'a about 50 liters per
capita.) Service in both systems is intermittent. In Dhamar, because of the
low level of the storage tanks, system pressure is very low, and multi-story
buildings require booster pumps. In both towns the distribution networks are
of galvanized iron pipe installed at various times, mostly buried 30 to 40 cm
deep, with some of the network above ground. Both systems are in bad repair,
because maintenance is difficult and limited. House connections are generally
exposed. Leakage is visible in those streets where heavy traffic has damaged
the superficially installed lines. The unsatisfactory condition of the
systems in both cities is becoming critical, and replacement is imperative.
Bacteriological analysis shows the existing supplies to be unsafe, parti-
cularly in Dhamar.
52.       Sewerage System.  There is no municipal piped sewage collection
system in either town. Collection and disposal of sewage is through pit
latrines, cesspools and septic tanks. In most houses the connection from
toilet and bath facilities to pit latrines or cesspools is through a vertical
shaft or pipe on the front of the building. Where the shafts have become
clogged, fecal material is discarded into the streets. Since water is pro-
vided without adequate wastewater disposal, latrines and cesspools overflow,
causing offensive pools of stagnant sewage in both Ibb and Dhamar. These
constitute a serious health hazard to the public, and pollute the aquifer.
In Ibb, an odious stream of septic sewage courses through the central market
area.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
53.       In early 1975 the YAR Government requested IDA to assist in financ-
ing the preparation of a project which would provide safe, potable water and
effective wastewater disposal facilities for the cities of Ibb and Dhamar.
Funds for feasibility studies were included under the Sana'a Second Water
Supply and Sewerage Credit which became effective in May, 1977. NWSA issued
terms of reference in November 1976 and the selected consultant initiated
field work in July 1977. Final draft reports were submitted to NWSA and IDA
in October 1978. The project was appraised in October 1978, and negotiations
were held in Washington in May, 1979. The YAR delegation was headed by Mr.
Mohamed Al-Fusail, Director General and Acting Chairman of NWSA and included
representatives of NWSA, CPO, and the Central Bank of Yemen. A report entitled
"Staff Appraisal Report, Water Supply and Sewerage Project in Ibb and Dhamar"
(No. 2392a-YAR), dated August 7, 1979. is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. The main features of the credit and the project are
mentioned in the Credit and Project Summary and in Annex III. A map of the
project area is attached.



- 15 -
Project Objectives
54.       The project seeks to improve and to expand the water supply system,
and to provide a piped sewerage system and appropriate wastewater treatment
plants, in Ibb and Dhamar, thereby assisting the government and NWSA in their
program of providinig this basic and essential service, in accordance with the
priorities established under the national 1976/80 Plan. The proposed project
would meet the towns' water supply and sewerage needs up to the year 1990,
for a population expected then to be 63,000 in Ibb and 70,000 in Dhau,ar. The
quantity of water available would be increased from 0.4 million cubic meters
per year in 1978 to more than 3.0 million cubic meters in 1990 in each of the
cities, and by contributing to NWSA's program of providing water connections,
all of which would be metered, for all dwellings in both towns. Average daily
per capita consumption is expected to increase from the 1978 level of about 30
to 35 liters, to 130 liters by 1990. Piped sewerage systems for both cities
would be operational in 1984:  by 1990, over 6,000 premises in each town are
expected to be connected to the sewerage system, both under the project and
under continuing work by NWSA after project completion.
55.       The project would also continue IDA's key institutional and opera-
tional assistance towards the development of NWSA, with special emphasis
on upgrading service, strengthening its financial autonomy, increasing staff
productivity,, improving the tariff structure, and reducing water losses. The
sewerage component will serve to abate pollution, which would otherwise worsen
with the increase in water usage.
Project Scope
56.       The water supply comaponents in the two towns will include drilling
17 wells, coastructing and installing collection tanks, pumping facilities,
transmission pipes (2 km for :[bb, 16 km for Dhamar), reservoirs, distribution
networks (totalling 47 km) and power generators for the water and sewerage
systems (total capacity 1,290 kw), as well as providing 6,000 house connec-
tions, so that almost all houses in both towns are expected to be connected
to the systems when the project is completed. The sewerage components will
include collection systems (about 125 km), treatment plants using aerated
lagoons and stabilization ponds, power plants, and about 8,000 house connec-
tions. The project will also include about 370 man-months of consulting
engineering services for final design and construction supervision, the
construction of two branch office buildings for NWSA, 430 man-months of
operational assistance by financial, technical, administrative experts
(seconded from water supply authorities in other countries), and training.
Project Implementation
57.       In. accordance with the Law of 1973 which established NWSA, the
government will take all action necessary to transfer to NWSA the exclusive
jurisdiction, over the existing water supply systems in Ibb and Dhamar. No
problem is expected in the transfer, which the government has agreed to
complete by the date upon which the project shall have been completed
(Section 3.02(a), Development Credit Agreement).



- 16 -
58.       NWSA will implement the project; as described above, although still
growing, it is a relatively effective organization. With the support, pro-
vided under the project, of consultants for design and supervision of con-
struction, and of technical, administrative and financial staff to provide
operational assistance, it will be competent to handle its responsibilities
for construction and operation of the systems. Because of the rapid growth
foreseen for NWSA in the next five years, however, it is possible that its
senior staff might be overstretched. NWSA will submit annually to the
Association a detailed program of work to be undertaken in each year, together
with concomitant staffing needs and availability of staff and this program
must be satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.05, Project Agreement).
59.       NWSA expects to award the contract for final design and contract
documentation by mid-1979; construction is expected to start by early 1981 and
to be completed by mid-1983. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed by
mid-1984.
Project Costs and Financing
60.       Total project cost is estimated at US$91.9 million equivalent, of
which approximately 60 percent or $55.6 million is in foreign exchange. The
proposed IDA Credit of US$12.0 million would finance about 21 percent of the
project's foreign exchange cost and 13 percent of the total project cost.
Price contingencies of 50 percent of the base cost plus physical contingencies
were also provided for in the project cost estimates. Cost savings of between
five and ten percent are estimated to be derived from providing services for
the two towns concurrently. The cost estimates are based on actual construc-
tion prices prevailing in existing large scale water supply and sewerage
projects in YAR, as of October 1978. Development projects are exempt from
import duty and taxes in YAR.
61.       The government has initiated discussions with several international
and bilateral lending agencies, and has already tentatively identified poten-
tial donors. The KfW has committed about $10 million equivalent in grant to
cover the investment cost of water supply for Ibb. The Arab Fund and the
Saudi Fund have indicated that they would be prepared to consider providing
some $10 million and $15 million respectively to the project. The government
will continue to exert its best efforts to secure financing for the remaining
foreign exchange gap of about $9 million and in the meantime has committed its
own resource towards filling this gap. The signing of co-financing agreements
for about $25 million is a condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01, Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). The rest of the foreign exchange is expected to be
secured during 1980 and this is satisfactory. The government will finance the
$36 million equivalent local costs.
Onlending Arrangements
62.       The IDA credit would be onlent to NWSA by the government over 20
years, including 5 years of grace, at 8 percent interest. Signature of a
subsidiary loan agreement, acceptable to IDA, is a condition of effectiveness
of the IDA credit (Section 5.01, Development Credit Agreement). NWSA's equity



- 17 -
is comprised of the government's initial contribution when it established NWSA
and took over the Sana'a system, the value of subsequent acquisitions (Hodeida
and Taiz), and the equity contributions made so far towards the cost of
existing projects. In order to build up a reasonable equity base for NWSA,
the government has, in previous projects, undertaken to provide all local cost
financing, and 44 percent of the foreign exchange cost, as equity. The
remaining 56 percent of the foreign exchange cost of the projects has been
on-lent to NWSA by the government at 8 percent interest. The government is
also committed to finance overruns, and is expected to provide about YRls
186.0 million ($41.3 million equivalent) in additional equity over the amounts
envisaged at the time these projects were planned. NWSA thus has a reasonable
equity base ( a debt:equity ratio of about 31:69 in 1979), and, given reason-
able tariff policies, should shortly be in a position to service additional
debt; it is therefore considered appropriate that the foreign exchange financ-
ing of this project be provided in the form of debt. Given the government's
earlier comLitment to provide equity capital for NWSA operations in Sanaa,
Hodeida and Taiz, even this apparent hardening of on-lending terms for this
project will not have a deleterious effect on NWSA's debt:equity position (see
para. 69). During negotiations, it was agreed that in order to assure that
NWSA maintains adequate debt service coverage, the government and NWSA will
review its tariffs annually and adjust them as necessary to ensure that, as a
minimum, revenues cover operating expenses and interest charges. It was also
confirmed that the government will on-lend 100 percent of the foreign exchange
component oi the project cost.
Procurement and Disbursement
63.       ALl contracts in excess of $50,000 financed under the credit would
be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with the
World Bank Guidelines. For bid evaluation purposes on such contracts, a
margin of preference of 15 percent or the actual customs duties, whichever is
lower, would be allowed for goods manufactured in the Yemen Arab Republic.
Contracts for goods valued al: less than YRls 225,000 ($50,000), aggregating to
not more than YRls 1,350,000 ($300,000), would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with local procedures
acceptable to IDA. In the interest of economy and efficiency of project
administration, tender documents for both Ibb and Dhamar will be combined to
the extent possible, particularly for the procurement of goods. The proposed
credit would be disbursed against the following (Schedule 1, Development
Credit Agreement):
(a) 100 percent of the c.i.f. or ex-factory cost of materials
and equipment procured under ICB, or 85 percent of the cost
of imported goods procured locally;
(b) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of consultant
services and expatriate operational assistance; and
(c) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of training of
NWSA personnel.



- 18 -
64.       Consultant Costs.  The average monthly cost of the 370 man-months of
engineering consultant services is estimated at $9,600. These amounts are
reasonable in the YAR context.
Existing Financial Situation
65.       NWSA is only beginning to operate on any significant scale and will
continue to develop its institutional capacity in the years ahead. Thus,
its principal emphasis will be on the planning and supervision of construction,
rather than on system operations. Nevertheless, its accounting system, which
started on a simple cash basis, has become progressively more sophisticated;
audited accounts were produced for FY1977. Under the first IDA credit, an
accounting system for NWSA was designed with the assistance of a consulting
firm. However, as from 1979, all accounting in Yemen, including that of NWSA,
is required to follow a standard format similar to the French "Plan Comptable"
system. This will entail substantial revisions to the computer programs which
NWSA now uses. The new system will be implemented as soon as the revisions
have been completed. NWSA's accounting procedures are adequate for its
present level of operations, but considerable work remains to be done to
achieve the higher accounting skills necessary to control such a large and
rapid increase in consumers and assets. To this end, the $3.9 million USAID
Water Management project provides advisors to advise and to assist in training
NWSA accounting staff; the proposed credit would finance additional accounting
staff to enable NWSA to meet its needs while Yemeni staff are being trained.
Tariffs
66.       NWSA's revenues derive entirely from water supply operations and are
based on a fixed monthly charge per connection. This varies from city to city;
currently the average is equivalent to YRls 1.9/m3 ($0.41/m3) of consumption.
Tariff studies already underway in Taiz, Sana'a and Hodeida have indicated
that differences between the cost of service in these centers are not signifi-
cant, and it is intended to introduce a uniform tariff schedule, based on
metered consumption. NWSA intends to adopt a progressive block rate tariff
structure, which will ensure a basic supply at low cost to poor consumers
while discouraging excessive use through high charges. The tariff studies
will be completed and consolidated by NWSA assisted by its consultants by
December 31, 1981, and a new tariff system acceptable to the government, NWSA,
and the Association will be implemented by December 31, 1982, or such other
date as the Association may agree (Section 4.06, Project Agreement). By 1983,
the metering program under the proposed and ongoing projects should be reach-
ing completion in all centers, and sewerage facilities should be in service in
Sana'a, Hodeida and Taiz.
67.       The average long-term incremental cost of providing both water
supply and sewerage is about YRls. 6.5/m3 ($1.45/m3) in 1978 prices, compared
with the current average charge levied by NWSA for water of YRls. 1.9/m3
($0.41/m3). There is clearly a need for substantial increases in tariff levels
in real terms before economically efficient levels can be reached. Also, to
take account of inflation, it will be necessary for NWSA to review its
tariff structure frequently in order to safeguard its financial viability.



- 19 -
Current projiections assume an increase in the effective average charge for
water of 25 percent annually until it reaches the level of long-term incre-
mental cost Ln 1985. Sewerage charges will be introduced at the level of
long-term incremental cost in 1982 when the new facilities come into operation.
Consumers can afford to meet these charges, and will be prepared to do so
(para. 71).
68.       For Ibb and Dhamar, the average long-term incremental cost of provid-
ing water sulpply and sewerage is about YRls. 6.80 ($1.51/m3) and Yki6. 7.04
($1.56/m3) respectively, which is not significantly greater than the average
costs for the other three cit:ies. It is, therefore, appropriate to apply to
Ibb and Dhamar the uniform tariff, given its associated simplicity of design
and implementation.
Future Financial Performance
69.       Existing covenants under previous IDA credits required NWSA to
achieve by 1978 a positive rate of return of 5 percent by 1984, and 7-1/2
percent by 1987 on average net fixed assets in operation, properly valued.
The targets for 1984 and 1987 are repeated in the proposed credit (Section
4.04(a), Project Agreement). NWSA earned a modest surplus on its limited
operations in 1977 and 1978. Current projections show that the targets can be
met. The substantial injections of equity capital provided to NWSA under past
credits (para. 62) will leave it with a debt:equity ratio of 25:75 after
project completion. Sizeable cash surpluses are forecast to emerge as of 1984
and 1985 which may provide NWSA with some self-financing capacity to meet the
requirements of its post-1983 investment program which has yet to be defined
and costed. The debt limitation covenant of previous credits (internal cash
flow should be at least one and a half times debt service requirements) are
repeated in the Project Agreement (Section 4.03).
Project Just:ification
70.       Substantial social, health and economic benefits, in addition to the
overall enviLronmental impact, stem from the project which represents the least
cost solution to meeting the basic water supply and sewerage needs for Ibb and
Dhamar. It will bring adequate quantities of safe water for the first time to
the more than 130,000 inhabitants which the two towns are expected to have by
1990. The provision of piped sewage collection systems will mean that they no
longer have to live in the squalid and unsanitary conditions which are pre-
valent in large parts of both towns, and which would only be further aggra-
vated if additional water were supplied without provision for its disposal.
Health and :social improvements, and consequential economic benefits, are among
the more important unquantifiable benefits. The most prominent of these could
be the mark,ed reduction in waterborne diseases that contribute significantly
to YAR's mortality rate, which is among the highest in the world. Furthermore,
properly operating 24-hour svstems will virtually eliminate infiltration of
polluted groundwater. An appropriate tariff structure to be introduced in
conjunction with greatly improved water supply and sewerage services would
discourage waste and excessive consumption of water and prepare the ground for
further improvements in the sector. Another important benefit would be the



_ 20 -
continued strengthening of NWSA as a technically and administratively effi-
cient institution, capable of further improving and extending water supply and
sewerage services.
71.       Since there is at present neither a reliable water supply, nor a
suitable water tariff in Ibb or Dhamar, a meaningful rate of return cannot be
calculated on the basis of present declared willingness to pay. However, the
monthly water and sewerage charges forecast which will approximate average
incremental cost, will not exceed about 4 percent of monthly income even of
the lowest income groups; evidence from other parts of the country, and the
views of inhabitants of the two towns, indicate that there will be widespread
willingness to pay these tariffs to obtain the benefits indicated.
Risks
72.       Since NWSA's establishment in November 1973, its management and
staff have demonstrated an increasing capability to cope with their rapidly
growing responsibilities, assisted by experienced expatriate advisors in
engineering, finance and construction supervision. Because of this demon-
strated improvement, and with the measures to be taken under this project,
including further technical assistance and training, the proposed review by
IDA of NWSA's financial operations and investment program, and close monitor-
ing of key indicators of progress, the risks involved in project implementa-
tion are no greater than can normally be expected with water supply and
sewerage projects. Based upon present knowledge of groundwater resources in
the Ibb area, the reliability of the source is such that the demand through
1990 will be met. The proposed progressive tariff will take into account the
needs and ability to pay of different classes of consumers, consistent with
the financial requirements of NWSA. The risks of not achieving the institu-
tional, technical and financial objectives of the project are moderate.
73.       The potential risk that full benefits from the sewerage component
would not be attained, because some consumers might not wish to connect to
the sewage system, will be overcome by the provision of credit by NWSA to low
income consumers to finance connections, and by measures to require dwellings
which have a water supply connection also to be connected to the sewer. Such
measures will be introduced by December 31, 1983 (Section 3.02(b), Development
Credit Agreement). NWSA will continue sewerage connections, using its own
resources, after project completion.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association, the Project Agreement between the National Water
and Sewerage Authority and the Association, and the recommendation of the
committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Association's Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 21 -
75.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest are
referred to in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness
of the credits are the signing of loan agreement(s) between the government
and other external co-financiers for an amount of about $25 million equivalent
(Section 5.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement) and the execution and
ratification, of the subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and NWSA.
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.       I recommend that thie Executive Directors approve the proposed Devel-
opment Cred:Lt.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington., D.C.
August 14, 1979



ANNEX I
- 22 -                                                                     o  
TABLE 3A
YEMEN. ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF P 
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EK.)                                                     - MOST RECIET ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             195.0                                                      SAimm        SANE      NEXT HIGHER
ACRICULTURAL       15.2                                   MDST RECENT      GEOGCRPNIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb         REGION  e   GCROUP /d    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       .            .      390.0 (1977)1438.5            182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         7.0         17.0       49.0            816.7        88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                           4.6         4.8       5.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCErT OP TOTAL)    .             .         7.0             45.8        15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. YM.                           *-          8s.0      34.0             23.2        46.8         42.7
PER SQ. EN. AGRICULTURAL LAND                   362.0      441.0            112.4       254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           43.3         44.1       46.8             46.0        43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                           54.0         53.2       49.7             50.6        53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.7          2.7        3.5              3.3         2.9          3.0
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
ToTAL                                             ..        2.0               2.9         2.4          2.7
UR8UN                                                        8.0              5.0         4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (ENR THOUSAND)                    50.5       47.3             45.0        44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          .         24.1       28.7              13.7       19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  .          3.5        3.5               3.4        2.9          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          .           ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)                                             14.7        14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              156.2        100.0      156.1            107.1        96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     82.0         71.0        * *             99.2        92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            65.0         62.0        * *             63.4        50.0         56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           .          15.8 /f    *.               16.4        13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE                                                                           7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)         .            .       37.0             53.7        45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)                         159.0             77.7       102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  .          4.0        9.4             59.1        26.4         31.1
URBAN                                  ..        45.0       51.7 Li          85.9        63.5         68.5
RURAL                                             2.0        6.7             38.0        14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  .           ..         ..             64.3        16.1         37.5
URBAN                                  .           .          ..             94.5        65.9         69.5
RURAL                                  ..          ..                        27.7         3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          143500.0      31340.0   23260.0            4271.6    13432.7        9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            .            ..   16830.0           2077.4      6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             3300.0            .     2060.0            580.2      1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                  ..          ..         ..            310.0       183.3        278.4
RURAL                                  .           ..         ..                ..     1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           .          ..            22.0         19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                                        5.9              5.4         5.2
URBAN                                  .           ..        4.2                          4.8
RURAL                                                        6.0             *             5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  .           ..        3.0
URBAN                                  .            ..       1.8.L            1.8          1.8         2.3
RURAL                                  .     .      .        3.1
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..         ..             40.3        25.9         28.3
URBAN                                  .            .       56.5 /
RURAL                                  ..                      .              12.2                     10.3



- 23 -                                            ANNEX I
Lme- 2Of  5
TABLE 3A
YOENM  ARA3 REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFIRINCE GROUPS (ADJUSTE) AVERACFS
YElEN, ARM REPUBLIC OF                                      /a
- MOST RECENIT ESTIMTE)
SAHt        SANE      NEXT RIGRER
YOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 tb     1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb       REGION /c   GROUP td    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENFOLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                   8.0        10.0      25. 7             80.8        62.9        75.8
FEMALE                 0.4         2.0        7. 1            61.8         45.9       67.0
Upper sECONDARY:  TOTAL                      0.2          1.0       4.4             23.6         14.4        17.7
FEMALE                  ..         0.1        1.3             18.2          8.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)   ..           2.0        2.0              6.7          6.6        7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            45.0         51.0       40.0             31.5        38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                           17.0        24.0      21.0              22.3         19.8       23.5
ADULT LITERfACY RATE (PERCENT)         3.0           ..     13.0              50.1         36.7       63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER C,RS PER THOUSAND
POPUIATIt)I                           ..          ..         ..             14.5          3.1        7.2
RADIO RECEI'tERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            .           *-       13.0            125.8        31.1        71.1
TV RECEIVER!, PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            .           ..         ..             34.5         2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ,.        10.0         *-             17.4          6.0       16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA    .             ..        ..              1.6          1.4        1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL L.ABOR FURCE (THOUSANDS)          ..          ..    1140.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    3.8          4.2        4.3              9.3        24.2        28.0
AGRICULTOELE (PERCENT)              83.2        79.2       73.0             42.0        60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  6.9          9.0         ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.0        29.1       28.3             26.9         39.8       37.8
MALE                                  57.0        55.1       53.6             46.6         53.3       50.3
FEMALE                                 2.3         2.4        2.5              5.3         19.6       20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 ..           ..       2.2              1.9          1.3        1.3
INCOME DI STRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED 3Y
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..        ..               ..        20.3        19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..         ..               ..        45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..               ..         5.7         5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF ROUSEROLDS       ..          ..         ..               ..         16.8       15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ALBSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ,                 ..        88.5       155.9
REURAL                               ..           ..                       142.0        71.9        97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       79.0            236.1       100.8       143.7
RURAL                                ..           ..       40.0            144.7        42.0        87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVIEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 *-          *-       15.0             21.5        46.0        22.9
RURAL                                ..           ..       60.0             37.4        48.0        36.7
Not available
Not applIcable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for ezach indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for L960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent EstLmate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    North Rfrica & Middle East;   /d   Low Income (S280 or less per capita, 1976);   Ie  Lover Middle Income
($281-550 per capita. 1976); 7f  Av. 1964-66;   /   Only in the major cities of Samoa, Taig and Hodaidah.
September, 1978



24. es
DZIPIITIWS OF SOCIA  INDICATORS                                                               o       
N&U     The adjusted ereup averapes for each J.aiiCaTe  are population-weighted Ieometric mane, excluding the extreme values of th. indicator A"6 the moost
populated country In each group. Coverage of COlttiea mon the indicators depend. cm availability of data cod is pot uniform. Due to latk of data,
group avekrases for Capital Surplus Oil Ixporters and indicator. of access to watar and excrets disposal, housing, intom distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric iansan without tha excluosio of astrom values.
hLmjM6  (thousand sq. km)                                                                  urbLn, an  bural)ivided b ;thaii,r setiv   -me   lauato  (total,
_jF-Total surface are a cmprisiag Iced area mad JIced waters.                          f      !spctvsubrohsialbeds
hAzrmulur~mal - Mlost mrcset eatstet  of Wagiulcural area used t"orarily                  available in public and private general LU  spociacls*4 hospital and ta-
or pefianently for crops, pastures, sarket and kitchen gardens or to                   habilitation centers.   oeapitels are eatabliahoants perumaotiy stsf fed by
lie fagllow,                                                                           at least one phycician,  getabliahoest providing principally custodial
caeasrer nor inc'luded. Rural hospitals, however, include health and modi-
4L1fl.. aTA AIli1-0N    par capita estimates at currest markst prices,                     cal centers not persmaetly staf fed by a physician (but by a medical as-
cu  aid by  mes conversion method as World Sank Atlas (1975-77 basis)l               sinscat, nurse. midwfe, aet.) wehich offer in-patient aecomsodatieno and
1960. 1970, and 1977 dats,                                                             provide a limited range of medical facilities,
'" 'e:jw,,   Ital b - Total wsmber of  adissions to or discharges
10    UWU- Annual cona,tici  of coemsrcial.eamrgy                 rov sital   iv           y the number of bads.
=5coa Mad  ignte, petroleum, natural gcsu d hWydro-, nuolmr and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilogram of coal equivalent per capita.
Aversacsie4o.f hoseol  (otsnsne  ho hld) - total, urbo  an.dL total-
MMAL  VITAL ITATISTics                                            ~~ ~~~~~~~~A hoshldcnisso  a grou  ofidivdulswh  share living quarters
Ter., M an. m-Tes   (milioul- As'of July Is If not available,                  and their mino eals, A boarder or ledger msy or may not ha included Jo
Awiraghof tyoiUM ayesAat   cslto; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                           the household for steticticaI purposse.  Statistical deinitions of house-
Urban gggiton(e;at  ftoa                 R atio of urban to total popula-                hold vary.
losdfect definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                 AvIc ubro   esn   a  om-ttl  ugrb"An.L    ua    Average sum-
of data momg countrios.                                                                her ofprons pe  omi   l,ubn   n   ua   cupied conventional
PSOLUtion dansIM_                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permannt structures and
For  ... lag, ,- KJ-yer population Par square kilomtsr (100 hectares)                  unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                       Access to electricity (Percent of dwli1nas) - total, urban. LU  rural-
Per eq. In. aericultura land - Computed as chowe for agricultural land                  Conventional dwellinga wth sle         itriiy in living quarters as percentage
only,                                                                                  of total, urban. end rural dwellings raspectively.
Pouainaxe):tr'uctu    (percet  - Children (0-14 years),* workiag-&gs
(213!-!64years *ad rtired (615tyear  sod over) as percentages of mId-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                    Adluat*d stnrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, LUd urban - Compound annual                  Priusry school - total. and female - Total and foala enrollment of ell ages
growth rates of total LUd urban mid-year populations for 1950-60.                      at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-&ga
1960-70, LUd 1970-75.                                                                  populations; normally Includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (por thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                     different lanSths of primary education; for countries with univoeral edu-
aid-year population; ten-year aritboetic averagas LUding in 1960 and                   cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent sinsce some pupils are below  or
1970  ndfive-ya  average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                      shove the official school age.
Crud  deth  ate(ncr thousandS - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                SceoLUry school -total, an  f samls - Computed as above; secondary educ--
yeer population; ton-year artthoatic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                  ton require  alest for            rear  of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average Lnding in 1975 for most recnen  estimate.                        vidas general vocational, or teether training Instructions for pupils
Gross renroduction rate - Averaep  mumber of daughters a woman will beat                 usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
inher normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                     excluded.
!spcific fertillity rates; usually five-year avereges ending in 1960,                Vocational enrollment (Percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, LUd 1975.                                                                       dcude technical, industrial, or other programs vhicb oparata independently
Pmilv planinina - acceptors, anna"l (thousands) - Annual number of                       or as departments of secondary Institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                Pupil-teacher ratio - primary. and secondary - Total students snrollad in
Planning Program.                                                                      primary and sescondary levels dividedby numbers of teachers in ths corre-
Pemily plmacina - usr   preto  mrid woe)-Percentage of                                   sponding lewel..
mare   oe   f chiLdbaring age (15-4  yer)wou.brbcor                        Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read ad writs) 
devices to all married women in same age group.                                        a percentage of total adult populstion aged 15 years end over.
FOOD AND NUTITION                                                                     CONSUMlPTION
Index of food Production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                 Pfasaseneer cars (par thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor ... s
capita 4annual production of al  fond toomoditiss.                                   seating loes  than eight personia; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita sutnplv  of.calr.         ecn  o   esrmns    Computed from                  vehicles.
energy equivalent of otfdsuplie  avIlal  incountry par capita                       Radio receivers (per thousLU  population) - All typas of racaivrer  for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less              broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;  xexludes unlicensed
exports, LUd changes in.stock.  Not supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,             r..sivera in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was I
quantities used In fLUd proccesing, LU  losses In distribution.  Re-                 effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quireomets ware eatimtrd by PAO based on physiological noads for nor-                abolished licensing.
mal activity LU  health cansiderAng enviroomental temerature, body                  TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to generd.
weights, age LU  sex distributions of population, and alioving 10 per-                 public par thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coon-
cent for waate at household level.                                                     trios end in years when ragistration of TV sets was in affect.
per capita supply of protein (gasprday) - Protein content of per                      Ns  qae   irculation (oar thousand pollulatiron) - Showo the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day   Net supply of food is defined as                   tion of "daily general intereset oavs-IPspe, definad as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                 cation devoted primarily to recording geeral news.  It is considered to
aminimums allowance of 60 grema of total protein par day and 10 grane                 be "daily" if it appeer. at least four times a weeh,
of animal end pulse protein, of which 10 grems should ha animal protein.            Cinema snnual attendance per capita per year - Based on tbs number of tickets
These standards aer  lower than those of 75 grmsa of total protein and                 sold during the year, Including admissions to drive-in cinema. and sobilo
23 graxs of animal protein as an average for the world, Proposed by                    units.
,AO in the Thrd World Pn   uvy
par ca.pit.  cre%Iz supplyPfrommanimal and pulse - Protein supply of food            EMPLOYMENT
Cderived from wanmals and pulses in greqs par day.                                   Total labor forces (thousands) - cconomically actIve persons, including arned
Cild (axes 1-4) mortality rate (nert housand) - Annual daeths per thous-                forces end unemployed but excluding housewives, students, aet.  Defini-
and in ego group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                             tione in various countries ace not cospar.ble.
Famal. (percent) - Penal. labor force ase percentage of total labor forces.
HEATH                                                                                  Aariculturs (percent) - Labor force in formint, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                       as percantaga of total lebor force.
remauining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,               Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                      -       electricity, water and Sao as parcentase of total labor force.
Infant sortality cats (per thousaand  - Annual deaths of infants under                Participation rate (percent) - total. sale, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                              femwls labor force as prerentages of their respective populations.
Access to Safe WAte  (p et  fpplain                  ' totL, urban. and rural -These Are no's adjusted pcrticipstion rates reflecting ape-san
Nomber of people (total, urban, LU  ura)  it  reasonable access to                     atrctuatrs of the population, end lmg time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface wster a or untreated but                Economic denendeno  ratio - Ratio of peueinunder 1) and 65 and ovar to
uncontaminsted water such as that from protected broreolee, springs,                   the labor force in &ga group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urben area a public fountain or stmndpoot located not more                   INCOMIE DISTRIBUTION
then 200 me ters from a houss may be considered as being within tea-                Precentaic of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 
sonable  ccs  of that house,  In rural areas,reasonable access would                   percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, end poorest 40 percant
imply t4)a  the: housewife or members of the household do not have to                  of h*owushold..
spend a disproportionate pact of the dasy in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Accses to axtrsta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                Etetintedtabpsolute onvsrty ilfcome level CUSorcno       rban and coral-
rural - Number of people (total, urban. and rural) served by  xecrete                    Ahoolur  pverty income level is that income level bole- which s minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populatione.  txcreta                      nutritionally adequate diet plus essontia1 non-food ceq.ire...L.ts In ot
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                      affordable.
treatment, of human exrorta and waste-water by water-borne systema                  tatinated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and r.rol 
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                   Relative poverty income level is that income level lose than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                     per capita personal incom  of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                     tEstimated population below poverty incone level (percent) - urban and rural 
Population per nursing persen - Population divided by number of                           Percent of population (urban and rural) who ace either "ahoolute yoec" o
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                      "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nlursesa.
E-onoic and lode.1 Data Divinion
Economic Analysis end Froj-tcirn. Deprrt.ent



- 25 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 5
ECOIOMIC INDICATORS
NATIOZAL ACCOUNTS (US$ Mln)
ANNUAL RATE OF CROWTH
(1977/78 prices)
19,72/73      1977/78        FY74-78        FY78
GNP at Market: Prices           1470          3270             17           11
GDP at Market: Prices 1/        1270          2180             11           10
Gross Domestic Investments       130           700             40           32
Gross National Savings           100           940             57            o
Exports of GN'FS                   50           60              4          -14
Imports of GNFS                   280          910             27            9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1977178)
Value Added        Resident Labor Force        V.A. Per Worker
USS LL       Z       Thous.                       U.S. 
Agriculture      730        38        735           69            990        55
Industry        330         17        111           10          2970        165
Services        860         45        220          21           3910        217
TOTAL/AVERAGE 1920        100       1066         100           1800        100
GOVERNMENIT FENANCE (YRls Inn)
-  of GNP
- 1972/73     1975/76      1976/77     1977/78      1976177
Current Revenue                  199         605         1293         1925           13
Current Expenditure               272        617          841         1235         . 8
Current Deficit/Surplus          -73         -12          452          690            5
Development Expenditure          , 58        322          603         1138            8
of which financed by
external loans                  (57)      (213)        (329)        (539)          (4)
External Assitance, net           116        635          606          691            5
MNEY CREDIT AND PRICES
-Y YUs  ";iliozi 0utstandirL Lind Period -
Money Supply                      489       2028         3642         5248
Bank Credit to Gov't. Sector    102         -407        -939         -1006
Bank Credit to Non-Govt Sector- 169          566         1474         1571
Percentages or Index Numbers
Honey Supply as % of GNP           14         20           26           36
Consumer Price Index (1972-100)  n.a.        237          287,         348
Annual Percentage increase in:
Money Supply                  36         104           80           44
Consu-pmr Price Index         n.a.        17           21           21
LJ  Tentativre World Bank estimzate.



Annex 1
Page 5 of 5
- 26-
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ Mln).
1972/73     1975/76    1976/77   1977/78
Exports of Goods, fob                   7           12        19           7
Imports of Goods, cif                 120          382       730         834
Trade Balance                        -113        -370       -711        -827
Non factor Services, net              -11           22        -3         -21
Factor Income, net                   105         479         889      1,089
Workers' Remittances, net          (102)      (457)       (842)    (1,019)
Investment Income, net              (3)        (22)        (47)       (70)
Balance on Current Account           -19          131        175        24i
M & LT Capital, net                   22          153        146         165
Official Grants                     14          114        ]04        101
Official Loans, net                  8           39         42          64
Disbursements                    (12)         (42)       (46)        (70)
Repayments                       (-4)         (-3)       (-4)        (-6)
Other Capital (including
errors and omissions), net          25             4       126         -24
Increase in Reserve  (-)             -28         -286       -447       -382
Gross Reserves (end Pr$Y              65          473        920        1302
M)RCHANDISE EXPORTS
(AVERAGE 1976/77-1977/78)
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT. JUNE 30. 1978
I
US$ Min.
Total outstanding              693           Cotton and Cotton Products  31
of which disbursed             363           Coffee            *          13
Rides & Skins                14
.Biscuits & Confectionary    24
All other comdities          18
100
DEBT SERVICE RATI O   FOR 1977/78               RATE OF EXCHANGE
Since February 1973
1                     US$ 1.00 - YRls  4.50
Total outstanding and                           YR1 1.00 - US$ 0.22
disbursed              1
/ Central Bank holdings of convertible reserves.
t/ Includes workers' remittances.
VM1DB
August 1, 1979



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 ot b
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A.   Statement of IDA Credits
(As of June 30, 1979 - $ Million)
Amount
Credit                                                           (less cancellations)
Number   Year           Borrower        Purpose                  IDA       Undisbursed
315     1972   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways I                   7.7           -
376     1973   Yemen Arab Republic  Tihama Agriculture I   21.2 /1            0.36
421     1973   Yemen Arab Republic  Education                   11.0          0.62
464     1974   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply                 6.3          0.45
465     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Industrial Estate            2.3          0.97
545     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Rural Development           10.0          5.67
558     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways II                  9.0          0.26
559     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply
and Sewerage            8.1          3.34
611     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Education                    8.0          3.96
636     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Grain Storage and
Processing              5.2          2.95
662     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Livestock Credit
and Processing          5.0          2.99
670     1977   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply and
Sewerage               10.0          9.45
714     1977   Yemen Arab Republic  Port Development             6.0          5.81
794     1978   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways III                11.5         11.50
805     1978   Yemen Arab Republic  Tihama Agriculture II  10.5              10.50
832     1978   Yemen Arab Republic  Textile Rehabili-
tation /2                 7.0          7.00
837     1978   Yemen Arab Republic  Power Distri-
bution /3                10.0         10.00
880     1979   Yemen Arab Republic  Tihama Agriculture
III /4                   15.0         15.00
915     1979   Yemen Arab Republic  Education /5                10.0         10.00
Total                                                 173.8        100.83
Of which has been repaid                                -
Total now held by IDA                                 173.8
Total undisbursed                                                  100.83
/1   Inclucding supplementary credit of $10.3 million of April 9, 1976.
/2   Approved June 20, 1978; Credit not yet effective.
/3   Approved July 6, 1978; Credit not yet effective.
/4   Approved March 6, 1979; Credit not yet effective.
/5   Approved May 22, 1979; Credit not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of June 30, 1979)
(Amount in US$ millions)
Year            Obligor               Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1978     Yemen Dairy and Juice        Dairy Products        2.4       -       2.4
Industries Co. Ltd.
Total Gross Commitments                            2.4              2.4
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, sales                                  -                -
Total commitments now held by IFC                  2.4              2.4
Fully disbursed
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
Three Bank grants of $200,000, $200,000 and $120,000 respectively,
were approved in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 to help finance,
jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of planning
and economic advisors and later of a management/administrative expert. The
Kuwait Fund provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and $425,000. The
Bank grants will be fully disbursed in 1979.
D.   Prolects in Execution
Cr. No. 376-YAR - Tihama Agriculture;-$10.9 million Credit of May 2. 1973;
Effectiveness Date: September 4. 1973: and $10.3 million Supplementary
Credit of April 9. 1976; Effectiveness Date: June 18, 1976; Closingt Date:
December 31, 1979.
Civil works have been substantially completed and other components
are proceeding very satisfactorily. The project is expected to be completed
during 1979.
Cr. No. 421-YAR - Education Project; $11 million Credit of July 19, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: April 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Following initial delays in recruiting staff for the Project Unit,
project implementation is now about 24 months behind appraisal estimates.
However, all institutions are now scheduled to be operational with the school
year beginning October 1979. The most critical aspects of the project are the
difficulty of recruiting expatriate and trained Yemeni staff for project
institutions, and of obtaining technical assistance to draw up curricula and
to make the institutions operational. The UNDP/UNESCO Task Force in the
Ministry of Education has been extended with further financing from UNDP.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
With assistance from the inst:Ltutional support team, the government is pur-
suing discussions with bilateral agencies to meet the technical assistance and
some staffing needs for the project institutions, and is working hard to
recruit staff from other Arab countries.
Cr. No. 464-YAR - Sana'a Water Supply Project; $6.25 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: July 15, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Construction of the water distribution system has been completed.
With only final construction in the well field program remaining, the major
elements of the project have entered the maintenance phase. NWSA has initiated
its house connections program.
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; $2.3 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: November 27, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Construction work started in February 1976; construction of the
developed plots is almost finished and most plots have been rented. The
Industrial Estate Authority now wishes to establish additional estates in
Hodeidah ancl Taiz, and is seeking further assistance from the World Bank.
Cr. No. 545--YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project; $10.0 million
Credit of May 13, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
After a slow start in project implementation, the project encoun-
tered management, staffing and organizational problems. Since 1976 progress
has been encouraging. Project management has improved and agricultural
extension, veterinary and credit activities are progressing very satisfac-
torily.  Problems of cost escalation have been met by reducing the number of
loans that can be made to farmers, and the extent of the feeder road component.
Well drilling and the village water supply component is underway.
Cr. 558-YAR - Second Highway Project; $9.0 million Credit of June 20, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: Januarv 27, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The construction of the Taiz-Km 64 road was completed in November
1976, and the 2-1/2 years technical assistance consultancy to the Highway
Authority is being continued under the Third Highway Project. The loan
account is being kept open to enable processing of withdrawal applications for
the undisbursed balance for expenditures before the closing date.
Cr. No. 559-YAR - Hodeida Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $8.1 million
Credit of June 20, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Following award of the combined water and sewerage civil works and
the electrical/mechanical works contract, construction was initiated in May



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
1979. Transfer of the existing water system assets from the Port Authority is
expected shortly. Consultants for the tariff .study have been selected and
the work is underway.
Cr. No. 611-YAR - Second Education Project; $8.0 million Credit of February 13.
1976; Effectiveness Date: May 10, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Physical implementation of this project is proceeding on schedule
and all project institutions are expected to be operational by October 1979.
Bids for furniture and equipment for the eight project institutions have been
received and evaluation is underway. Following the establishment of the
National Basic Training Board, an initial deposit of $50,000 has been made to
the Basic Training Fund, and some district training centers opened. Severe
constraints have been placed on achieving the educational objectives of the
project due to lack of progress in financing and recruiting expatriate and
Yemeni staff for the project institutions. The government is pursuing dis-
cussions with bilateral agencies to meet the technical assistance and some
staffing needs for the project institutions, and is working hard to recruit
staff from other Arab countries.
Cr. No. 636-YAR - Grain Storage and Processing Project: $5.2 million Credit
of June 7. 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
YGGC was established in October 1976 and is implementing the
project satisfactorily. Six local staff are currently undergoing training in
the US and UK in fields of cereal sciences and bakery management. Contracts
for the silo, government bakeries and warehouses have been awarded; construc-
tion has commenced and is expected to be complet'e by end 1979. The National
Nutrition Status Survey is being carried out in cooperation with the US Govern-
ment's Center for Disease Control and USAID. Cost overruns on construction
are being met by the Saudi Fund for development and the government. The Grain
Storage Survey which was behind schedule, has been completed.
Cr. No. 662-YAR - Livestock Credit and Processing Project; $5.0 million Credit
of November 15. 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 22, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Escalation in the costs of this project during 1977 was resolved in
a meeting of the government and co-financiers in London in October 1977, by
the reduction and/or reorientation of some of the components, without changing
the project concept. One dairy farm is nearing completion; the establishment
of the livestock fattening farm is progressing well and the farm has started
operations on a small scale. The other physical works, although progressing
reasonably well at present, are about one year behind schedule. Though there
are administrative and technical problems with most components, the slaughter
house and animal health components in particular are achieving their aims, and
the livestock fattening, dairy production and village development components
will provide valuable research information and development experience for the
livestock sector in YAR.



31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Cr. No. 670-1ZAR - Sana'a SecorLd Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $10.0
million Cred:Lt of January 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: May 16, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Al:L tenders for materials and construction of the water and sewerage
systems have been or are in the process of being awarded. The draft report of
the tariff sl:udy has been reviewed by the Authority and is being revised by
the consultalnt. Selection of consultants for the preparation of the final
engineering designs and tender documents is in progress.
Cr. No. 714-YAR - Port Develo)ment Project; $6.0 million Credit of June 8,
1977; Effectiveness Date: March 17, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The port engineer and the engineering consultants have been appointed.
Because of the delay in appointing consultants, project implementation is
almost one year behind schedule. However, tenders for Berth No. 6, as well as
other civil works, have been received and are being evaluated. Construction
is expected to start around late 1979. Other technical staff provided for
under the Credit are still to be appointed. The government has taken steps to
ensure that these appointments will be made in the near future in order to
strengthen t'ne technical services department.
Cr. No. 794-YAR - Third Highway Project; $11.5 million Credit of May 31, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: April 4, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project aims at continuing technical and financial assistance to
the Highway Authority in the operation of effective road maintenance practices.
Other objectives of the project include the implementation of vehicle loading
controls, planning future highway development and the inception of an overlay
program to strengthen existing paved roads. Project implementation is underway
and the Chief Engineer has been appointed.
Cr. No. 805-YAR - Tihama Development II Project; $10.5 million Credit of
May 31, 1978; Effectiveness Date: March 5, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Implementation of t'he project began in mid-1978 and is progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 832-YAR - Textiles Rehabilitation Project; $7.0 million Credit of
July 25, 1978; Effectiveness 'Date: (Not effective); Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Due to delays in arranging for consultancy services, this credit is
not yet effective. The Yemen Textile Corporation invited and received pro-
posals from consultants which have been evaluated but a decision on their
selection has not yet been made.
Cr. No. 837-YAR - Power Distribution Project; $10.0 million Credit of July 25,
1978; Effectiveness Date: (Not effective); Closing Date: January 1, 1983.
Although this credit is not yet effective because of delay in
concluding an agreement with the co-financier, implementation has started.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Cr. No. 880-YAR - Third Tihama Development Project (Wadi Mawr); $15.0 million
Credit and $3.0 million Special Action Credit of April 20, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: September 30. 1985.
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.
Cr. No. 915-YAR - Third Education Prolect; $10.0 million Credit of June 27,
1979; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WATER SUPPLY AND SE1WERAGE PROJECT FOR IBB AND DHAMAR
SUPP'LEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: T'imetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the government and  Fourteen months from July 1977 to
consultants to prepare project:   September 1978
(b)  Agency which prepared project:    National Water and Sewerage Authority
(NWSA) with consultant assistance
(c)  Project first presented t:o Bank:  May 1978
(d)  First Bank mission to review
project:;                            May 17, 1978
(e)  Departure of Appraisal MiLssion:   September 30, 1978
(f)  Complet:Lon of Negotiationls:        May 16, 1979
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:    January 1980
Section II: Special Implementation Action by IDA
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        Conditions of Effectiveness are that:
(a) a subsidiary Loan Agreement between the government and NWSA
has been executed (para. 62); and
(b) signed Loan Agreements between the government and' other
external co-financiers for about $25 million (para. 61).
2.        Other conditions are:
(a) the physical transfer of the existing water supply systems
in Ibb and Dhamar will be completed by July 1, 1981 (para. 57);
(b)  in order to implement a uniform tariff, NWSA will have its
fiLnancial consultants complete the consolidated tariff study
before December 31, 1981, and the recomendations of the study
w:Lll be discussed with the Association and an agreed tariff
system implemented by December 31, 1982 (para. 66);



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) by December 31, 1983 government will take appropriate steps
to ensure that those water customers in Ibb and Dhamar with
sewerage facilities available to them be required to connect
to the sewer system (para. 73); and
(d) to help meet the service connection costs, NWSA will provide
credit facilities to low income users ((para 73).



IBRD105
Wlt,    \ Sr  Ron                                                                                                            A 1  464  JANUARY 1976
S A U D I   A R A B I A
_HAHRAN
Xt J >  5^>I ^* ORAlt 1
- I jE;;l,T*p^4t 1 _4 YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
No    t   - dttJ t   /   d >NAJRAN
57^<) WrtBr^lre7                 //   \ \.}...JWATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
JS 8   4d@>.S<.   (   \   </   '                                  IBB AND DHAMAR
'C-    S E1H10P^  506^11x,   (8'   %                                  *    Provect Loc.ons
Poved Pr,mcry Roads
_____.____ /!______=_________|__             SAMAliA                                       _  _   Primory Roads Under Construction
JlZAN'j/\              (l             \      SAADAH                /         --   -  -O      Otker Roads
JIZ:  0W  \A                                          AH nl  SAADA  /                        Airports
*\  SAADAH                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Cities, Towns and Villages
\'UWAIR                                         (1   Notional Capitals
OBERAT        |             Main Wodis
Provincial Boundaries
(<>   V  AHARAD           \              X v}                       --  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Internrotionat E;oundories
HARAD
MAiDO                       SHIHARA
>,    1\             ~~HAJJ A               H-               ___'-4
0    20    0     o _60  50    300
-8v   ( )  \   AL  /  {KHAMER                              K _    v   ! 5;   rILOMETERS
ABSi         1°AHB'i                   .-       
0        20        *0       60
MILES
[UHA)YZORAR A
A I HUSHISANA"A                                                                            ,/= -   AA  -v1
AIA(l-USt-IM           AL liQOR                                                        WA,i.,uAn, p.e.n.In    .n7 ar Ro
L   ,  E    \  C A S A BL    Sy6v            7 M              M        ARIB
-T5\   \ SIRDUD  t   ;~~~~~2        t  °~ASIV              
ZAIDIYA           R NK Vt )                0JAHANA
"J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
A~~~NK
HoDEiD;@:j< L 0DURAN   ABAR  -                 I
,               NSUR\ 
%                                                            RAvvAA AQHt     A R Ax,t9          <
0 > m>U-RUg- / \B E I DA /
ZAI            ZA   C       E     A       f          
TOHAI@AI0j_5ZBOC                            B              MTH                 
OOW
L > ^~~~~~t HOa>-  '4 
v 4 )\ KASHRAN s ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P E   O P L E' S
K?~~~~~~~~~AH
M\ R'  )  g 9ptE>A   \    t   j        D E MOC R A T I C    R E P U B L I C
<  't       -       1       )     t   MAW!YAy >                  \">      O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F    Y E M E N
MOCHA
_   >         V                     O~~~~~~~ TURBA  IMF LS\              
ETHIOPIA                   /I SHIBA
2 , t \ ~DUBAB   
E T H I O P I A             X        G     v      
/  Y-g fMAM 
GUIF  OF  APJAN
/   D J I B O U T I                                                  - :
/'    IE'OUTI
i/.<\-w






I BRD 14051
Y'NMEN ARAB REPUBLIC                                                              -ANUARY1979
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
IBB     ~    ,N
1900~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
1A'.<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) 
KIl OMETERS
PROJECT FEATURES                                                           J
--       Intercepting Sewers
-        Trunk Sewers
*     Pumping Stotions                                        /
Water Mains
OTHER FEATURES:               A\                               t7>0t      
Built-up Areos11978)
- - -  City Limits in 1990
-       International Boundories
---950_ Contours (Elevctions in Meters)
A5N                   \|9ATAR
EGYP~                 I~U  -
A R A 8 I A      ,                                                                                          5     7
SUDAN J: o \. -                                         o\  'SEWAGE   
SUDAN              f                                                                                                                 0,
- ;b;nEN"                                                                                  ?9tEo-   TREATMENT \S°
.b6   I rW1t   t         q°90                                                                PLANt  X      -o 
~~~~~~ '  _    1ab     7            
(tiR gOUT.      ,\                                                                      
_SOMALI I            Thr   map hrs b    ppered  ,tn  World aR-ks sf f   cluaey for the cfnren,e
of th  readers of the rf port to woth re h s a-tt ched The de -or,hatrOhs used and the
E ETHIOPI Ar       IorOdat,rp sh   ontr.srnaodo no   p.    hertofte Word 8   arn drt
\    /                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~ahfr'rates.aeryrhotrraet on mae reada  Ctaortu faorr teortsotrt0.a e,ud,orserne  rr
r       #              f ~~~~~~~~~~CCE¢ptfance oh suc heounddarres. 






IBRD  14052
JANUARY 1979
Wel/ F eld
PrnpinS5tathon                                                                               YEMEN  ARAB REPUBLIC
N                                                    WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
DHAMAR
Resetvo,r
°l       5                DHAMAR
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _I__ _,                                                                      0           0 5                    1.0
\-                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
Reservoir                                                                                              KLM7R
--/- \\
Pumping Station                EWAGE I
/TREATMENT)
PROJECT FEATURES:
_________________________                                                                          -       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Intercepting Sewers
%A-                                                                                                            Trunk Sewers
EGYPT                   ~~~~~~~AfA                                                                                                    Pumping Station
EG\ S A                                                                                    '' D  I AE..
~~-  ARABIA~Q ~Water Mains
OTHER FEATURES:
SUDAN   o~\                          a_\___
( ~~~~~~~~   AR~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~Built-up Areas (1978)
X -                     r-                                                            -         JCity Limits in 1990
'h          )          \                                                                 International Boundaries
SOMALIA         S          h,s an h- b-e prepned hi the Ioed -k s  ff ---                                                 TrnY fSe th.
E THIOPIA                                -de   s, Ss  tA Ua  I     -ply. - the Par -f the Wopid Bk andt
k                                    afh-,e.ny j,dgt- o h. legl _t_ o    er        oy -.do-in orF
./r  I      rr          aooep                                                                                -'- o      Ino-io-f -h boor aIen-



