뀁


﻿X
CREDIT NUMBER 950 YAR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
1W,
AGREEMENT, dated                               1979, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and NATIONAL WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY of the
Yt          Yemen Arab Republic (hereinafter called the Authority).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Yemen Arab Republic (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twelve million dollars ($12,000,000), on the terms and
7 :'
conditi6ns set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that the Authority agree to undertake such obliga-
tions toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Authority, the proceeds of the credit
provided f or under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to the Authority on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS the Authority, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agredment with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms def ined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Authority shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
j
A
r


﻿-2-
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility
practices.
Section'2.02. In order to assist the Authority in the super-
vision of construction works under the Project, -the Authority
shall employ engineering consultants whose qualifications, exper-
ience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Authority undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Authority to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
Authority shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be .used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) The Authority shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Authority: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to


﻿-3-
the Association at regular intervals all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose among the Borrower,
the Association, and the Authority, the Authority shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the exe-
cution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Authority and the Association of their respective obliga-
tions under this Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit.
(d) The Authority shall enable the Association's representa-
tives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, build-
ings, property and equipment of the Authority and any relevant
records and documents.
Section 2.06. The Authority shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authority shall not take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) The Authority shall at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) The Authority shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by the Authority of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Authority shall provide its low-income
customers in the Project Area, whose dwellings shall be served by
the sewerage system under the Project, with adequate credit
INVa


﻿-4-
facilities to enable them to meet the cost of connecting their
dwellings to said sewerage system.
Section 2.09. For the implementation of Part C (2) (iii) of
the Project, the Authority shall prepare and furnish to the
Association, not later than June 30, 1981, a detailed training
program for its staff, including the qualifications of candidates
for training, and shall, after having reviewed the Association's
comments thereon, carry out such program.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Authority
Section 3.01. The Authority shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry out its operations, all in accordance with appro-
priate administrative, financial and public utility practices and
to that end shall employ at all times and in adequate numbers
qualified and experienced management and staff.
Section 3.02. The Authority shall at all times operate,
maintain, renew and repair -its facilities, plants, equipment and.
machinery in accordance with appropriate engineering and public
utility practices.
Section 3.03. The Authority shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. The Authority shall: (a) operate a system
utilizing indicators acceptable to the Association for monitoring
the achievement of the Authority's financial, technical and
operational goals, including those to be achieved under the
Project; (b) report to the Association, quarterly during the
period of Project execution and annually during the following
five years, on the operation of said system; and (c) introduce
such changes in said system as the Association shall reasonably
request.
Section 3.05. The Authority shall: (a) furnish annually to
the Association a detailed estimate of the numbers and speciali-
zations of staff required for the carrying out of the Authority's
operations during the next following' year; and (b) take the


﻿-5-
Association's comments thereon into consideration in deciding on
the measures required for ensuring the availability of such
staff.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Authority shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. The Authority shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associ-
ation such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the. Authority and the audit thereof as the Associ-
ation shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Authority shall not incur any debt, other than for
money borrowed for financing the Project, unless its net revenues
for the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for a later
period of twelve consecutive months ending prior to such incur-
rence, whichever amount is the greater, shall be not less than 1.5
times the maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding
fiscal year on all debt, including the debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" shall mean all debt of the Autho-
rity maturing by its terms more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of a contract, loan agree-
ment or other instrument providing for such debt;
44


﻿- 6 -
-6-
(iii) the term "net revenues" shall mean the gross
revenues from water supply and sewerage operations,
adjusted to take account of the Authority's rates
in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt
even though they were not in effect during the
fiscal year or twelve-month period to which such
revenues relate, less all operating and administra-
tive expenses and provision of taxes, if any, but
before provision covering depreciation, interest
and other charges on debt;
(iv) the term "debt service requirement" shall mean the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt; and
(v) whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
rate of exchange determined by the Central Bank of
the Borrower.
Section 4.04. (a) The Authority shall take all measures
required (including, but not limited to, the introduction, main-
tenance and periodic adjustment of tariffs in respect of its water
supply and sewerage operations) to realize a gradually increasing
rate of return so as to reach an annual return of not less than 5%
in its fiscal year 1984, and not less than 7-1/2% in its fiscal
year 1987 and thereafter on the average net value of the Autho-
rity's fixed assets in operation.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the required annual rate of return shall be calcu-
lated in respect of each fiscal year by using as
the denominator one-half of the sum of the net
value of the Authority's fixed assets in service at
the beginning and at the end of each such year and
as the numerator the Authority's operating income
from water supply and sewerage operations for that
same year;
(ii) the term "net value of the Authority's fixed assets
in operation" shall mean the gross value of such


﻿-7-
assets less accumulated depreciation, all deter-
mined in accordance with appropriate methods of
valuation, revaluation and depreciation acceptable
to the Association; and
(iii) the term "operating income" shall mean the differ-
ence between:
(A) gross revenues from water supply and sewerage
operations plus other recurring fees and
charges associated with such operations;
and
(B) operating and administrative expenses,
including adequate provision for maintenance,
repairs, depreciation of all fixed assets in
service and taxes, if any, but before interest
and other charges on debt.
Section 4.05. The Authority shall, until the completion of
the Project: (a) furnish to the- Association, for its review and
comments, the Authority's proposed investment program for the next
following year well in advance of its adoption; and (b) based on
the above, make such modifications in said program as the Associ-
ation shall reasonably request.
Section 4.06. The Authority is currently undertaking, with
the assistance of consultants, , study for the purpose of prepar-
ing a uniform tariff system for water supply, which would enable
the Authority, while achieving the rate of return specified in
Section 4.04 (a) of this Agreement, to adopt a system of progres-
sive tariffs favorable to the Authority's low-income customers.
.  The Authority undertakes: (a) to complete said study by Decem-
ber 31, 1981; (b) promptly thereafter, to furnish to -the Associ-
ation, for its comments, the results and recommendations of said
study; and (c) to implement such recommendations of said study as
shall be acceptable to the Borrower, the Authority and the Associ-
ation by December 31, 1982, or such other date as the Association
may agree.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿-8-
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of the Authority thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date twenty-two years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Authority of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
For the Authority:
National Water and Sewerage Authority
P.O. Box 104
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:                     Telex:
NWSA                               2346 NWSA
Sana'a                             Sana'a
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the Authority may be taken or executed
by the Director General of the Authority or such other person or
persons as the Director General shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. The Authority shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the
Authority, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by the Authority pursuant to any
of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
NATIONAL WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
By               ARepresntativ
A/           Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Authority shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Authority shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Authority of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Yemen Arab Republic may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 11 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Yemen Arab Republic if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Authority
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of
such goods includes a value added in Yemen Arab
Republic equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Yemen Arab Republic.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 12 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost not
more than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract and $300,000 in
the aggregate may be awarded pursuant to applicable procurement
procedures of the Borrower satisfactory to the Association.
D.   Review of Invitations to Bidand of Proposed Awards and
Final Contracts
1.   With respect to all contracts estimated each to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Authority shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Authority shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Authority and state the reasons for such determina-
tion.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.


﻿-13-
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Authority shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respec-
tive bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Autho-
rity and state the "reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agrebing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 25% of the original price, the Authority shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Authority
and state the reasons for its determination.
0.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness-whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    /S      day of
197-L
FOR SECRETARY
Ä
Ä


