CREDIT NUMBER 950 YAR
OF!ICIAL
DO0CUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Water Supply and Sewerage Project
for Ibb and Dhamar)
between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 950 YAR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1979, between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associ-
ation).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the National Water
and Sewerage Authority (the Authority) of the Borrower with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Bor-
rower will make available to the Authority the proceeds of the
Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from other external
sources of finance (hereinafter called the Co-Financiers) loans
(hereinafter called the Co-Financiers' Loans) in an amount equiva-
lent to about forty-four million dollars ($44,000,000) to assist
in financing the Project on terms and conditions, satisfactory to
the Association, to be set forth in the agreements to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Co-Financiers; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Authority;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Authority of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement;
(b) "'Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Authority pursuant
to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(c) "Project Area" means the two cities of Ibb and Dhamar of
the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twelve million dollars ($12,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association sh,11 promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1989, and ending March 1,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable on
March 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Minister of Development of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Authority to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable the Authority to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.


﻿-4-
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
the Authority under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Authority under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association, and which
shall include, inter alia, a repayment period of twenty years,
including five years of grace, and interest at the rate of not
less than 8% per annum.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all such governmental
action, including action within the jurisdiction of the local
authorities in the Project Area, as shall be required: (a) to
transfer by the date upon which the Project shall have been
completed to the Authority the exclusive jurisdiction over
the water supply and sewer systems irthe Project Area; and (b) to
ensure that all dwellings in the Project Area, to be provided with
sewerage facilities under the Project, will 1be connected to the
sewer system.
Section 3.03. In order to ensure the optimum utilization in
the city of Ibb of the water supply facilities to be constructed
or installed under the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) prepare
and submit to the Association for its comments, a plan for
the carrying out of hydrogeological studies of the groundwater
resources available for said city; and (b) complete said studies
by March 31, 1980, or such other date as may be agreed with the
Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all action required
on its part for the implementation of the agreed recommendations
of the tariff study referred to in Section 4.06 of the Project
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿-5-
(a) Any of the agreements providing for the Co-Financiers'
Loans in the amount specified in Section 5.01 (c) of this Agree-
ment and any of the agreements providing for the remaining amount
of the Co-Financiers' Loans shall have failed to become effective
by March 31, 1980, and December 31, 1980, respectively, or such
other dates as the Association may establish; provided, however,
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association
that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any of the Co-Financiers' Loans
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor;
or
(B) Any of the Co-Financiers' Loans shall have
become due and payable prior to the agreed
maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(c) The Authority shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of the Authority under the Project Agree-
ment.
(d) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Authority will 'be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.


﻿-6-
(e) Law No. 13 of 1973 of the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as
to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Authority to
carry out the covenants, agreements or obligations set forth in
the Project Agreement.
(f) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Authority or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and the Authority; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (b) (i) (B),
(e) or (f) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of the
Authority has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental and corporate action;
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and the Authority, respectively, has been autho-
rized or ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate
action; and
(c) agreements providing for the Co-Financiers' Loans in an
amount equivalent to not less than twenty-five million dollars
($25,000,000) have been duly signed on behalf of the parties
thereto.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General


﻿-7-
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Authority, and is legally binding upon the
Authority in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and the Authority and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and the Authority in accordance with its
terms.
Section 5.03. The date                  ) gO      is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Development of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Development
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:                      Telex:
CENPLAN                            2266 CENPLAN
Yemen Arab Republic                Sana'a
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-                                                                   I-II
-8-
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By/
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures fqr items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    To be Financed
(1) Equipment and               7,100,000         100% of foreign
materials under                              expenditures;
Parts A (2) (c)                              100% of local
and B (c) of                                 expenditures
the Project                                  ex-factory and
85% of local
expenditures
for locally pro-
cured items
(2) Consultants'                2,000,000        100%
services
(3) Expatriate oper-              910,000        100% of foreign
ational staff                                expenditures
(4) Training                      170,000        100%
(5) Unallocated                 1,820,000
TOTAL      12,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and


﻿-10-
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objectives 'of the Project are to expand the water
supply system of the Project Area and to provide it with a piped
sewerage system, and to assist in the improvement of the opera-
tional, managerial and financial conditions of the Authority.
The Project consistn3 of the following Parts:
Part A:   Water Supply
(1) Drilling and equipping of wells in the two cities of Ibb
and Dhamar.
(2) Provision and installation in each of the two cities of
Ibb and Dhamar of: (a) a collection tank and pumping
facilities; (b) two electric power stations; (c) trans-
mission lines and distribution network; and (d) about
3,000 house water connections.
(3) Construction of two reservoirs and installation of pumps
and pressure tanks in each of the two cities of Ibb and
Dhamar.
Part B:   Sewerage
Establishment in each of the two cities of Ibb and
Dhamar of: (a) a collection system; (b) a power plant;
(c) a treatment plant; and (d) about 4,000 house
connections.
Part C:   Institutional Development of the Authority
(1) Construction of an office building for each of the
Authority's two branches at Ibb and Dhamar.
(2) Technical assistance to the Authority comprising: (i)
the provision of consultants' services for purposes of
Project execution; (ii) the employment of expatriate
staff to provide on-line operational assistance to the
Authority; and (iii) the carrying out of a training
program for the Authority's staff.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1983.


﻿4-'--Il
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
197.$ ,
FOR SECRETARY
Lå,
j


