AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-3 GH
African Facility Credit
Agreement
(Second Reconstruction Imports Credit Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the
SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Dated                              , 1985


﻿AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-3 GH
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT AGREE MENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1985, between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-
SAHARAN AFRICA (the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) the Executive Directors of the International
Development Associat.ion (IDA) have established by their Resolu-
tion No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985 (the Resolution), a Special
Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African Facility) consti-
tuted by the funds which shall be contributed by the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and
other donors and administered by IDA, acting as Administrator of
the African Facility, for the purpose of, and in accordance with,
the provisions of the Resolution;
(B) by development credit agreements dated July 18, 1983
and April 5, 1985, between the Borrower and IDA (the First Recon-
struction Import Credit Agreement and the Second Reconstruction
Import Credit Agreement, respectively), IDA has made available to
the Borrower two credits (the First Reconstruction Import Credit
and the Second Reconstruction Import Credit, respectively) to
support the Borrower's Economic Recovery Program on terms and
conditions set forth in the First Reconstruction Import Credit
Agreement and the Second Reconstruction Import Credit Agreement
and in the project agreements of the same dates between IDA and
the Bank of Ghana (the First Reconstruction Import Credit Project
Agreement and the Second Reconstruction Import Credit Project
Agreement, respectively);
(C) the Borrower as part of its Economic Recovery Program
intends to carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement;
(D) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feai-
bility and priority of the Project, has requested assistance from
the resources of the African Facility in the financing of the
Project, and the Administrator has determined that such assis-
tance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Resolu-
tion;
(E) the   Borrower  intends   to  obtain  from  the  Federal
Republic of Germany a Credit (the German Credit) in an amount of
16,500,000 Deutsche Mark to assist in the financing of the


﻿-2-
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the German Credit Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Federal Republic of Germany;
(F) the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (the United Kingdom) a
grant (the United Kingdom Grant) in an amount of 5,000,000 Pounds
Sterling to assist in the financing of the Project on the terms
and conditions    't forth in an agreement (the United Kingdom
Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
United Kingdom; and
(G) the Project will be carried out by the Bank of Ghana
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to the Bank of Ghana the pro-
ceeds of the African Facility Credit as provided in this Agree-
ment; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the African Facility Credit to
the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith
between the Administrator and the Bank of Ghana;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the International Development Associa-
tion, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement:
(a) the term "Association", when used in the General Condi-
tions, means the International Development Association acting as
Administrator of the African Facility, except in the phrase
"member of the Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and
6.02 (e) thereof;
(b)  the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and
"Credit Account", when used in the General Conditions, are
amended to read "African Facility Credit Agreement", "African


﻿-3-
Facility Credit" and "African Facility Credit Account", res-
pectively;
(c) the second sentence of Section 5.01 is deleted; and
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA with res-
pect to which the terms and conditions of membership are those
prescribed in the Articles of Agreement of IDA for countries
whose names are listed in Part II of Schedule A to those Arti-
cles;
(b) -"Economic Recovery Program" means the Borrower's pro-
gram for economic recovery as announced in the Borrower's Budget
Statement and Economic Policy for 1983, dated April 21, 1983;
(c) "GNTC" means the Ghana National Trading Corporation of
the Borrower;
(d) "Interministerial Committee" means the committee estab-
lished by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.02 of the First
Reconstruction Import Credit Agreement;
(e) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Bank of Ghana of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(f) "Project Unit" means the project unit established pur-
suant to Section 2.03 (a) of the First Reconstruction Import Cre-
dit Project Agreement;
(g) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 2
(1975);


﻿-4-
(h) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(i) "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank of Ghana pursuant
to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Agreement; and
(j)  "Technical Committee" means the Committee established
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.03 of the First Recon-
struction Import Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The African Facility Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
African Facility Credit Agreement, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to twenty-six million one hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 26,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the African Facility Credit
may be withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Administrator, for expenditures made
(or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility Credit.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories of: (i) any Part II member of IDA; (ii) any country
designated by the Administrator as meeting the provisions set
forth in paragraphs 4 (f) (ii) and (iii) of the Resolution.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987 or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Admin-
istrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the African Facility Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the African Facility
Credit Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the African Facility Credit
Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the amount withdrawn from the African Facility Credit
Account and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the principal
amount of the African Facility Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15,
1996 and ending August 15, 2035. Each installment to and includ-
ing the installment payable on August 15, 2005 shall be one-half
of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Bank of Ghana is designated as representa-
tive of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action


﻿-6-
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the African Facility
Credit Agreement, shall cause the Bank of Ghana to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of the Bank of Ghana, shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
the Bank of Ghana to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the African
Facility Credit available to the Bank of Ghana under a subsidiary
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Bank of
Ghana under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Administrator.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Administrator and to accomplish the purposes
of the African Facility Credit, and, except as the Administrator
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services re-
quired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the African Facility Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, subject to the eligibili-
ty restrictions set forth in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Administrator hereby
agree that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,


﻿-7-
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, res-
pectively) shall be carried out by the Bank of Ghana pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall maintain the Inter-
ministerial Committee to provide interministerial coordination
and policy guidance for the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain the Technical
Committee to be responsible for the coordination, monitoring and
supervision of all Project activities.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall submit to the Administrator
for its review on or before October 31, 1985 and within four
weeks after the close of each calendar quarter thereafter a
report on the status of the import program and capital expendi-
tures program, including a statement of the number and dollar
amount of import licenses issued and letters of credit opened,
broken down by broad categories.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall review with the Administra-
tor: (i) on or before December 31, 1985, its policy on the allo-
cation of the output of domestic manufacturers to GNTC; and (ii)
on or before April 30, 1986, its policy on price and distribution
controls.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall not later than Septem-
ber 30, 1985 submit to the Administrator for review and approval:
(a) a rolling development program covering the years 1986
to 1988, inclusive, which will establish a framework for resource
mobilization, current expenditures and public investments in the
medium term;
(b) a program of action for implementing a reform of indus-
trial policies and incentives; and
(c) a program for restructuring specific sectors of indus-
try to be agreed upon with the Administrator.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall undertake and, on or before
September 30, 1985 or such later date as the Administrator may


﻿-8-
agree, submit to the Administrator for review and approval a
study to develop appropriate policies for increasing the revenues
to the Borrower from the operation of the small-scale gold and
diamond industry.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Administra-
tor, not later than December 31, 1985, an imports program for
1986, satisfactory to the Administrator.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall set the price of petroleum
products and promptly as required make adjustments therein so as
to fully reflect exchange rate adjustments.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) The Bank of Ghana shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the African Facility Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Borrower will be able to carry out the Economic Recovery Pro-
gram or that the Bank of Ghana will be able to perform its obli-
gations under the Project Agreement.
(c) Act 182 of 1963 of the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
materially and adversely affect the ability of Bank of Ghana to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d). The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of Bank of Ghana or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant, loan or credit
(including the Second Reconstruction Import
Credit, the German Credit and the United


﻿Kingdom Grant) made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been sus-
pended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the agree-
ment providing therefor; or
(B) any such loan or credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Administrator that: (A) such suspension, can-
cellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement, and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Administrator to the Bank of Ghana;
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occurj and
(c) the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section 6.01.' The following events are specified a   addi-
tional condisions to the effectiveness of the African Facility
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:


﻿- 10 -
(a) the Borrower shall have submitted to the Administrator
a rolling development program pursuant to Section 4.01 (a) of
this Agreement, satisfactory to the Administrator;
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
German Credit Agreement and United Kingdom Grant Agreement,
except for the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been ful-
filled; and
(c) the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and the Bank of Ghana.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Administrator:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Bank of Ghana, and is legally binding upon the
Bank of Ghana in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and the Bank of Ghana and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and the Bank of Ghana in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.04 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the African Facility Credit Agreement shall termi-
nate or on the date five years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
Section 6.05. In the event that the Executive Directors of
IDA decide to terminate the functions of IDA as administrator of
the African Facility pursuant to paragraph 10 of the Resolution,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, designate
another party which, on the date specified in such notice, shall
assume part or all of the rights and obligations of the Admin-
istrator under this Agreement in accordance with the Resolution
and such decision of the Executive Directors, as specified in
such notice.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Provisional National Defence Council Secretary for
Finance and Economic Planning of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Provisional National Defence
Council Secretary for Finance
and Economic Planning
Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning
P.O. Box M40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:                         Telex:
ECONOMICON                          2205 MIFA EPGH
Accra
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the African Facility
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                         Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY FOR
SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the African Facility Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions hereinafter set forth or referred
to in this Schedule, the proceeds of the African Facility Credit
may be withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account for
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the execution of the Project and to be financed out
of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above and
except and to the extent as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
112          -              Alcoholic beverages
121          -              Tobacco, unmanufactured tobacco
refuse
122          -              Tobacco, manufactured
667          -              Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked
or worked
688                         Uranium depleted in U235 and
thorium, and their alloys,
unwrought or wrought, and
articles therefor, n.e.s.,
waste and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of thorium
718          718.7          Nuclear   reactors,  and  parts
thereof, n.e.s.


﻿- 14 -
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
897          897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watchcases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971.0          Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b) expenditures for petroleum products other than bitumen
and lubricants for the manufacturing and mining industry;
(c) expenditures for products which are on the list of
items  under   price  control  and   the  list   of  items  under
distribution control and raw materials for such products, other
than ethical drugs, matches and textiles;
(d) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(e) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(f) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
(g) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Administrator shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(h) expenditures for goods financed from export retention
funds; .
(i) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for private or public luxury con-
sumption;
(j) expenditures for foodstuffs;
(k) expenditures for goods for manufacturing enterprises
other than those in which the private sector has an interest;


﻿- 15 -
(1) expenditures in excess of SDR 6,500,000 equivalent for
goods for the agricultural sector;
(m) expenditures in excess of SDR 5,200,000 equivalent for
goods for the mining sector;
(n) expenditures in excess of SDR 7,900,000 equivalent for
goods for the industrial sector; and
(o) expenditures in excess of SDR 6,500,000 equivalent for
goods for the transport sector.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower's
Economic Recovery Program and, in particular, to increase the
capacity utilization of the productive sectors of the economy, to
rehabilitate @elected infrastructure sectors of the economy and
to alleviat@ the adverse impact of the drought on the balance of
payments.
The Prgject coisists of the purchase and importation of
goods and iaterial.s for agriculture, industry, mining and
transport and the provision of technical assistance required
therefor,
The Prgject is @Kpected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the African
Facility Credit;
(b) the   term  "Authorized  Allocation"  means   an  amount
equivalent to SDR 5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the African
Facility Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Administrator shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the African Facility Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furuish to the Administrator re-
quests for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals
as the Administrator shall specify.     On the basis of such re-
quests, the Administrator shall withdraw from the African Facili-
ty Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits
shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the African Facility
Credit Account in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 18 -
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Administrator shall reason-
ably request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Administrator when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Administrator shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the African Facility Credit Account
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the   total  unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  African
Facility Credit minus the amount of any outstand-
ing qualified agreement to reimburse made by the
Administrator and of any outstanding special com-
mitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the African Facility Credit
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the African
Facility Credit shall follow such procedures as the Administrator
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice have
been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.   (a) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, deposit into


﻿- 19 -
the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request,
refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justi-
fied. No further deposit by the Administrator into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or
refund.
(b) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount for crediting
to the African Facility Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  \         day of
198.
FOR SECRETARY


