OFFI CIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1573-5 CH
Development Grant Agreement
(Second Reconstruction Imports Credit Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of the
MINISTER OF DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated                  , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1573-5 GH
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              ( h(   , 1986, between REPUBLIC
OF GHANA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIA-
TION, acting as Administrator (the Administrator) on behalf of
the Minister for Development Cooperation of the Netherlands (the
Minister).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the assistance of the
International Development Association (the Association) and of
the Minister in the financing of the Project described in Sched-
ule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (Second Reconstruction
Ir,ports Credit Project) dated April 5, 1985 between the Borrower
and the Association (the Development Credit Agreement);
WHEREAS the Association has granted a development credit for
this purpose out of its own resources (the Credit) on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, and
the Minister has authorized the Administrator, to extend to the
Borrower for the same purpose a balance of payments grant (the
Grant) to assist the Borrower's Economic Recovery Program on the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the Borrower acknowledges that the financial assist-
ance extended to the Borrower under this Development Grant Agree-
ment shall be considered as part of the bilateral development aid
extended by the Government of the Netherlands to the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement  subject, however,    to   the  following  modifications
thereof:
(a) the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the Association acting as Administrator of the
Grant pursuant to the Agreement dated December 13, 1985


﻿-2-
between the Minister and the Association; provided that the said
term when used in Section 6.02 shall mean the Association acting
in its own capacity;
(b) the term "Development Credit Agreement" whenever used
in the General. Conditions, means this Development Grant Agree-
ment;
(c) the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Condi-
tions, means the Grant extended to the Borrower unde ,his
Development Grant Agreement;
(d) the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the Gener-
al Conditions, means the account opened by the Administrator in
its books in the name of the Borrower to which the amount rf the
Grant is credited; and
(e) Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03,
4.04, 4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 (a) and 12.05 are dele(;ed.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
GeneralhConditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement arid in the
Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings there-
in set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions herein set forth or
referred to, a grant in the amount of eighteen million Dutch
Guilders (Dfls 18,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount cf the Grant may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account for expendiures made (or, if the
Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the rea-
sonable cost of the goods and services required for the Project.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a)
above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (i) expendi-
tures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services
supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and (ii) payments


﻿-3-
for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods and services, or on the importation, manufacture, procure-
ment or supply thereof.
(c)  Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in
the respective currencies in     which  the expenditures to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant have been paid or are
payable or, at the option of the Administrator, in Dutch
Guilders.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall other-
wise agree, contracts for goods and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
(b) If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined
that the procurement of any item is inconsistent with the pro-
cedures set forth or referred to in paragraph (a) above, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Grant, and the Administrator may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Administrator under the Development Grant Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Grant as, in the Admini-
strator's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Grant,
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987 or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Admini-
strator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Bank of Ghana is designated as representa-
tive of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project; Remedies
Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein,
Articles III and IV of the Development Credit Agreement are
hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it being


﻿-4-
understood that all references in such Articles III and IV and in
the Project Agreement to the "Association" shall be deemed to be
references to the Association acting as Administrator on behalf
of the Minister under this Agreement and all references to the
"Credit" shall be deemed to be references to the Grant extended
to the Borrower under this Development Grant Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Grant Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause the Bank of Ghana to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the letter agreement of even
date herewith between the Administrator and the Bank of Ghana all
the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
the Bank of Ghana to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Grant
available to the Bank of Ghana under arrangements
satisfactory tothe Administrator. The Borrower shall
exercise its rights under such arrangements in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Administrator and to accomplish the purposes of the
Grant.
ARTICLE IV
Termination;
Representation
Section 4.01. The date 90 days after the date of this Agree-
ment is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The representative designated in Section 7.01
of the Development Credit Agreement shall be the representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 4.03. The addresses specified in Section 7.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement shall be the addresses specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE V
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 5.01. In accordance with the Agreement dated Decem-
ber 13, 1985 between the Minister and the Association, the rights
and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be
transferred to the Minister. The Borrower accepts and agrees
that, upon notice by the Administrator to the Borrower to that
effect, the Minister shall, ipso facto, from the date specified
in such notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of
the Administrator under this Agreement as if the Minister had
been an original party to this Agreement, without any further
action or formality required on the part of any party, and from
such date the Association shall cease to have any rights or obli-
gations as a party under this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
L c~o
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of the
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            (lay o
198F                         S    E
FOR SECRETARY


