CREDIT NUMBER 1573 GH
OFFICIAL
DOCU ME NTS]
Project Agreement
(Second Reconstruction Imports Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANK OF GHANA
Dated                             , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1573 CH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1985, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and BANK
OF GHANA.
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between the Republic of Ghana (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty-one million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 61,600,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Bank
of  Ghana   agree  to  undertake  such   obligations  toward  the
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Bank of Ghana, the proceeds of the Credit
pr:)vided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
ilailable to the Bank of Ghana on the terms and conditions set
forth in said Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank of Ghana, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in
the Gentral Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Bank of Ghana declares its commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry


﻿-2-
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity   with   appropriate   administrative  and   financial
practices.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Bank of Ghana shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 2 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Association and the Bank of
Ghana.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Bank of Ghana shall carry out the obliga-
tions set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, and main-
tenance, respectively).
Section 2.04. The Bank of Ghana shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, the Bank of Ghana shall not take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. The Bank of Ghana shall: (i) expand the mem-
bership of the Project Unit with additional staff in numbers and
with qualifications acceptable to the Association; and (ii) main-
tain such Unit to assist the Technical Committee in the coordina-
tion, monitoring and supervision of all Project activities.
Section 2.06. (a) The Bank of Ghana shall, at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) The Bank of Ghana shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit, or the performance by the Bank of Ghana of its


﻿-3-
obligations under this Agreement -nd under the Subsidiary Ag-:ee-
ment.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Bank of Ghana shall maintain separate
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices its operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project.
(b) The Bank of Ghana shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section and the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records, as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿-4-
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Bank of Ghana thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 10 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Bank of Ghana of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when. it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-5-
For the Bank of Ghana:
Bank of Ghana
P.O. Box 2674
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:
GHANABANK
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Bank of Ghana, or by the Bank of Ghana
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, may be taken or executed by the Governor of the Bank of
Ghana or such other person or persons as he shall designate in
writing, and the Bank of Ghana shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ByI62                          A/7      7   &&     4
Regi nal Vice President
Western Africa
BANK OF GHANA
By                   Authorized Rpsti
Authorized Representative


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1984 (the Guidelines).
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods to be procured for the public sector, other than the
mining sector, under contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of less than $300,000 may be awarded following the solicitation
and evaluation of quotations from not less than three inter-
nationally reputable suppliers.
2.   Goods to be procured for the private sector and the mining
sector under contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than $1,000,000 may be purchased through normal commercial
channels.
3.   Goods to be procured under contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $100,000 may be purchased directly from
suppliers when a demonstrated urgency so requires.
4.   Goods of a proprietary nature may be purchased directly from
the suppliers of such goods.
C.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished


﻿-7-
to the Asseeiation pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3
(the Special Account Schedule) to the Development Credit Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in the procurement of goods
under the Project and in carrying out its obligations under Sec-
tion 4.03 of the Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall employ
procurement agents and other consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Project Responsibility
1.   The overall responsibility for the execution and administra-
tion of the Project will rest with the Bank of Ghana.
2.   The Interministerial Committee referred to in Section 3.04
of the Development Credit Agreement will provide interministerial
coordination and guidance.
3.   The Technical Committee referred to in Section 3.05 of the
Development Credit Agreement, supported by the Project Unit
referred to in Section 2.05 of this Agreement, will coordinate,
monitor and supervise all Project activities.
Import Procedures
1.   The import process will start with all importers (Ministry
of Agriculture, Ghana Cocoa Marketing Board, Motoring Trading
Companies, etc.) submitting import applications to the Technical
Committee. The import applications will include standardized
lists of goods to be imported.
2.   The Technical Committee will review the import applications
to ensure that they are eligible for financing under the Credit
and that they are in line with the Credit allocation to sectors.
The Technical Committee will act upon such applications within
eight working days of their submission and, upon approval, issue
an import agreement.
3.    The import agreement will constitute a commitment of the
Bank of Ghana to finance the estimated foreign exchange costs of
specified goods.
4.   The Ministry of Trade will issue the import licenses within
five working days of receipt of a copy of the import agreement.
5.   The procurement agents to be employed by the Bank of Ghana
will be authorized by the Bank of Ghana to handle all public
sector procurement, except as otherwise agreed between the
Association and the Bank of Ghana. The project coordinator of the
Project Unit will act as a liaison person between the Bank of
Ghana and the procurement agents.


﻿-9-
6.   The procurement procedures applied will be in accordance
with Schedule 1 to this Agreement. The Technical Committee will
ensure that, to the extent possible and within the limits of
local distribution capabilities, orders are bulked across sectors
and importers.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of         ,
198-9
FOR SECRETARY


