Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6464-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
OIL INDIA LIMITED (OIL) PETROLEUM PROJECT
February.10, 1987
Energy Department
Petroleum Projects, Division I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offieWal auties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     *         Rupee (Rs)
Rs I                        Paise 100
US$ 1                       Rs 13.0
Rs I                        US$ 0.0769
Rs 1 million      -         US$ 76,923
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Metric Ton (mt)                           1,000 Kilograms (kg)
1 Metric Ton (mt)                =          2,204 Pounds (lb)
1 Meter                          -          3.28 Feet
1 Kilometer (km)                 m          0.62 Miles
1 Cubic Meter (m3)               -          35.3 Cubic Feet (cft)
1 Barrel (Bbl)                   =          0.159 Cubic Meter
1 Metric Ton of Oil (39° API)    -          7.60 Barrels
1 Normal Cubic Meter (Nm3)       -          33.42 Standard Cubic Feet of
Natural Gas
1 Ton of Oil Equivalent (toe)    -          1235 Cubic Meters of Natural Gas
1 Kilocalorie (keal)             -          3.97 British Thermal Units (Btu)
MW                             =          1,000 Kilowatts
kWh                            -          kilowatt-hour
Bbl/d                                     Barrels per day
MMCMD                                     N Million Cubic Meters per Day
BCM                            3          Billion Cubic Meters
TCE                                       Metric Ton of Coal Equivalent
TCF                            -          Trillion Cubic Feet
toe                                       Ton of Oil Equivalent
tpy                            -          Tons per year
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
DEA       -    Department of Economic Affairs
EIL       -    Engineers India Limited
EOR       -    Enhanced Oil Recovery
GAIL      -    Gas Authority of India Ltd.
GOI       -    Government of India
HIL       -    Hydrocarbons India Limited
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
IOC       -    International Oil Company
LCB       -    Local Competitive Bidding
LIT       -    Limited International Tender
LPG       -    Liquefied Petroleum Gas
ML        -    Mining License
NEC       -    North East Coast
NOC       -    National Oil Company
NPV       -    Net Present Value
OIDB      -    Oil Industry Development Board
OIL       -    Oil India Limited
ONGC      -    Oil and Natural Gas Commission
PEL       -    Petroleum Exploration License
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OIIICIL USE ONLY
INDIA
OIL INDIA LIMITED PETROLEUM PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMRY
Borrower:                India, Acting by its President
Beneficiary:             Oil India Limited (OIL)
Amount:                  US$140.0 million
Terms:                   Repayment over 20 years, including five years of grace
at the standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:        Government of India (GOI) to OIL for a period of at
most 15 years, including five years' grace at an
interest rate of not less than 15%. GOI would bear
the foreign exchange and the interest rate risks.
Project Description:    The objectives of the project are:  to increase
production from the partially depleted Assam oil
fields; to improve the utilization, and thereby reduce
the flaring of associated natural gas; to implement
efficient exploration programs in OIL's new petroleum
exploration license areas as well as encourage
exploration for natural gas; and to strengthen OIL's
technical capabilities.
The project comprises: (a) application of production
improvement schemes such as infill drilling, pressure
maintenance, workover of wells including hydraulic
fracturing and application of enhanced oil recovery
(EOR) techniques in some of the partially depleted oil
fields in Assam; (b) implementation of a gas re-
injection scheme and associated gas supply network in
a few oil fields in Assam; (c) exploration, primarily
in gas prone areas, involving acquisition and
interpretation of high resolution seismic data and
drilling of exploratory wells; and (d) institution
building to strengthen OIL's technical capabilities
through technical assistance in exploration, seismic
data acquisition and processing, drilling, as well as
through training and the purchase of equipment for
research and development.
Project Benefits:       The production improvement schemes are expected to
yield incremental oil production of about 20 million
tons over 20 years with an estimated net present value
of about US$669 mlllion. In addition, the associated
gas re-injection and supply system is expected to
economically utilize about 2,900 million cubic meters
of associated gas over 20 years which would otherwise
be flared. This gas has an estimated net present
value of about US$65 million. The enhanced oil
nTh dool  a h. a      dher lutoi adW mbe  d by  leut*nly in _ pfI
of tb* oledal du. It contet nay rot othow  be disosed withou Wodd Bank Aboulon_



ii -
recovery (N0R) pilots are not expected to contribute
significantly to production, but are expected to lead
to full scale use of BOR in the 1990s, which would
further increase production. The benefits of the
exploration components are difficult, at this early
stage, to quantify, especially since this is only the
first phase of exploration efforts in the case of
Rajasthan.  However, exploration risk analyses
indicate that the expected recoverable gas reserves in
the Kumchal area in the State of Arunachal Pradesh is
about 18 billion cubic meters (equivalent to 15
million tons of oil). In the Rajasthan exploration
area, assuming all the hydrocarbon discovered will be
gas, initial estimates of recoverable gas range from
2-42 billion cubic meters. These statistical
evaluations justify the proposed exploration
efforts. In addition, unquantifiable benefits,
primarily in the form of strengthened technical
capabilities of Oil India Limited, are expected as a
result of the project.
Project Risks:          The principal project risks are those normally
associated with petroleum exploration and development,
i.e., geological, technological, and commercial. The
project has been designed to minimize all potential
technological risks by, for example, using modern
seismic technology, drilling a limited number of
exploratory wells, introducing qualified service
companies and introducing technical assistance and
training. With respect to commercial risks, the most
important is the risk of a prolonged period of low oil
prices. A steeper and longer lasting decline in the
international oil prices would reduce the
profitability of the production improvement schemes
and the potential returns from the exploration
components. However based on the low cost of oil
production in Assam, the price of oil would have to
drop to about $6.00 per barrel for the production
improvement schemes to become uneconomic. Hence the
risks, both economic and environmental, are considered
acceptable under all reasonably expected scenarios.



- iii -
Estimated Costs
. .,    (U   itl10oas
Local -L      Foreign           Total
Production Improvement Schemes           160.6           136.3           296.9
Exploration                               34.4            54.3            88.7
Enhanced Oil Recovery                     26.8            14.3            41.1
Gas Reinjection Scheme                    17.8             9.1            26.9
Technical Assistance and Training         12.4             9.3            21.7
Base Cost                              252.0           223.3           475.3
Physical Contingencies                    25.2            22.3            47.5
Price Contingencies                       47.6            13.6            61.2
Total Project Cost                  324.8          259.2            584.0
Financing Plan
Equity:
OIL                                 324.8            59.2           384.0
Long Term Debt:
IBRD                                   -           140.0            140.0
Cofinancing              -                          60.0             60.0
Total Debt                      -           200.0            200.0
Total Financing                     324.8          259.2            584.0
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$Millions)
Bank Fn         FY88      FY89     FY90     FY91      FY92     FY93    FY94
Annual          20.0     28.4      29.8     22.3      15.8     12.6    11.1
Cumulative      20.0     48.4      78.2    100.5    116.3    128.9   140.0
Economic Rate of Return: 3/  95X for the production improvement schemes;
471 for the gas re-injection component.
Maps:  19888R
19889
1/ Includes an estimated US$77.4 million In duties and taxes.
2/ Including commercial borrowings and suppliers credits.
3E/ ERR Is not calcuated for exploration components.



INDIA
OIL INDIA PETROLEUM PROJECT
STAFF APPRATSAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I     ENERGY SECTOR REVIEW....................................         1
B.   Production of Primary Eny..                   .            2
C.   Consumption of  3nergy.........................            3
D.   Government Strategy in the Energy Sectors**********        4
II.    PETROLEUM SUBSECTOR.........................O...                5
A*  Introductlon............................. o........         5
B.   Petroleum Reserves and Ristorical Production..o...         5
C.   Petroleum Products Deda                    n    d          7
D.   Projected Supply/Demand Balance9 ances*.............       8
3.   Petroleum Policy Framework.*........................       8
(a)  Exploration and Production*o#oo...............        8
(b)  The Role of      ¢as                                 10
(c)  Public and Private Investment ............. ....     11
F*  Petroleum Pricing... . ........................            13
G.   Subsector Institutions.............................       14
H.   The Bank's Role and Lending Strategy in the Sector.       15
III.    THE OIL INDIA LIMITED (OIL) COMPANYM P A NY.....*.....**..*    18
A.  Background and Operations..erations................        18
B.  Organization, Management and Staffiig..............        20
C*  Investment Program.og             r    a    m*...... ...................  21
D.   Current Operating Performance and Challenges...eo e       22
E.  Accounts and Auditse.. ...........e......                  23
P.   Insurancee............e. .e...e........                   24
IV.    THE PROJECT. ee...ee.eeee.ee.e..e...e .ee.. *..e*.*e..e..*     24
A.   Background ....*.ee..e..eoe.ee.e.eee.e.e.e.......e.       24
B.   Project Objectives and Scope**.......................******   25
C.   Project Components....................... eeesee          25
(a)  Production Improvement Schemes................       26
(b)  Associated Gas Reinjection and Supply Scheme..       27
(c)  Exploration Component. o...............0......       29
(d)  Institution Building......e..e...e...........*       30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in
April 1986; the mission members Included: Messrs. Denis Te Carplo,
Akin Oduolowu, James Smith, Hannachl Morsll and Mse  Selina Shun of the Energy
Department; and Messrs. T. Fitzgerald and Ted Geffen, Consultants.



- il -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
D.   Project Implementation.............................*******  31
E*  Project Cost Estimate.       .......................      32
F.   Financing Plan and Items for Bank Pinancing***.....      34
(a)  Project Financing Plan     l      anoo#*.................  34
(b)  Items Proposed for Bank Financingo#o#*o*......      35
G.   Procurement and Disbursements....**.*.............e      36
(a)  Procuremnt....................................      36
(b)  Disbursement of Bank Funds9#o.**.*..oo....o...      38
H.   Ecology and Safety ......................* 00 .0.0000    38
Io  Project Risks.o*o ......oo.oo......... ****               39
J.   Reporting Requirements..uirements .................      41
V.    PROJECT FINANCIAL ANALYSIS..............................      41
A*  Introduction* .*............o.. ..... o...... o......     41
B.  Past Finances and Current Financial Positionou..o.    42
C.   Future Fica                    n    c     e    s         43
Dn   Revenue Position..................  .     .      ..      44
E.   Flow of Funds  ..o*o*o*oo******o*oo                      45
F.  Financial Position .......o................o..o....       45
G.   Financial Analysis of the Project..................*     45
H.   Recommendations and Financial Covenants............      46
VI.    PROJECT ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION**..........................    46
Ao  Project Benefits ¢...... ... ............  000.00...00    46
B*  Project Costso....sts....... . ..... . . .. .........     47
C.  Project Economic Analysis......       ...                 47
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND REC       O NDATIONS                    49



- iii -
ANNEXES
2.01     Crude Oil and Petroleum Products Balances
2*02     Crude Oil Production by Area
2.03     Petroleum Products Supply/Demand Balance
2.04     Natural Gas Production and Use by Region
3.01     OIL Organization Chart
4.01     Geology and Hydrocarbon Resource Potential of Rajasthan, Assam
and the North East Coast
4.02     Description of Project Components
4.03     Incremental Production due to Secondary Recovery
4.04     Assam - Gas Supply/Demand Balance with Re-Injection Scheme
4.05     Project Implementation Schedule
4.06     Project Cost Table by Year
4.07     Project Cost Table by Component
4.08     Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
5.01     OIL Accounting Principles
5*02     Assumptions Underlying Financial Analysis
5.03     OIL Income Statements
5.04     OIL Balance Sheets
5.05     OIL Projected Sources and Uses of Funds
5.06     OIL's Production Costs
5.07     Financial Rate of Return Calculations
6.01     Assumptions Underlining Economic Analysis
6.02     Economic Analysis - Secondary Recovery
6.03     Economic Analysis - Gas Re-injection
6.04     Project Economic Sensitivity Analysis
7.01     Documents in Project File
MAPS
IBRD No. 19888R
IBRD No. 19889



It ENERGY SECTOR REVIEW
A.       Background
1.01     Over the past three decades, India has been shifting away from the
use of noncommercial fuels, such as fuelwood and vegetable waste, to
commercial energy resources. Much of the substitution for noncommercial fuels
has been in the form of coal and oil products, reflecting India's large coal
resources, on the one hand, and the rapid growth of road transport, on the
other, which has almost doubled the use of petroleum products over the past
decade. As a result, noncommercial fuels currently account for less than 40%
of total energy consumption, while coal accounts for 32%, oil and gas for
about 20%, and primary electricity for 8%.
1.02     The increasing reliance on commercial fuels has strained the
capability of the energy sector to meet the energy needs of the economy and
has placed a heavy burden on the balance of payments. Concerned about the
adverse impact of energy shortages on economic growth, GOI has been stepping
up public investment in the energy sector. Since 1973/74, the share of public
investment in the energy sector has nearly doubled. A substantial share of
these additional resources has been used to accelerate the development of
India's oil and gas resources. Through these efforts, India has been able to
lower its reliance on oil imports from 66% of domestic demand in 1973/74 to
25% in 1985/86. Despite these efforts, the reliance on imported oil is
expected to rise again by the mid-1990s as domestic oil production reaches a
plateau. To avoid a significant increase in oil imports, GOI has continued to
give high priority to the exploration and development of domestic oil and gas
resources.
1.03     Whereas the scarcity of oil products affects mainly the transport
sector, power shortages have an immediate impact on virtually all sectors of
the economy. Thus, GOI continues to allocate the major share of India's
energy investments to the expansion of electric power generating capacity.
Most of the recent increase in power generation capacity has been in thermal
power. As the share of thermal power increased, so has the demand for thermal
coal, which has more than doubled over the past two decades, and currently
accounts for about 47% of India's total coal output.
1.04     Demand for commercial energy has grown at an average annual rate of
about 5% during the past two decades, and significant increases in energy
demand are forecast over the next 20 years as population grows and as the
economy becomes more heavily industrialized. Despite considerable efforts to
contain the growth of energy demand through pricing and a wide range of con-
servation measures, India is likely to face energy shortages in the
foreseeable future. in particular, the demand for electricity and petroleum
is expected to continue to outstrip domestic supply. In order to mitigate
these shortages and thus reduce their adverse impact on the economy, GOI has
adopted a two-prong strategy which is aimed at: (a) accelerating energy
supplies from indigenous resources; and (b) reducing oil consumption through
measures aimed at lowering total energy demand through appropriate conser-
vation, energy efficiency and fuel substitution programs. With respect to oil
and gas, GOI's strategy emphasizes increasing exploration both by the national
oil companies and by the private sector, improving the efficiency of oil and



-2-
gas production from existing fields, and accelerating the development and
utilization of natural gas resources.  While this strategy has been effective
in reducing India's present dependence on foreign oil, rapidly growing demand
for oil products in the years ahead is expected to result in rising oil
imports.  The extent to which India is successful in raising domestic oil and
gas production, and thereby containing oil import demand, will considerably
affect its ability to sustain a higher rate of economic growth.
B.       Production of Primary Energy
1.05     Commercial primary energy (coal, oil, gas, hydro and nuclear)
accounts for slightly less than half of India's total primary energy supply,
with the balance coming from non-commercial energy (mostly firewood,
agricultural and animal waste). The supply of commercial energy has been
growing faster (at about 5% per year) than that of non-commercial energy
(about 2% per year), thus resulting in a steady decline in the share of non-
commercial energy in the total energy supply. In 1984/85, the total
consumption of commercial primary energy was estimated at about 120 million
tons of oil equivalent (toe). Coal and electricity are the principal sources
of energy for industry, coal is the main fuel for power generation, and
petroleum products predominate in the transport and household sectors. Energy
for agriculture is provided mainly from non-commercial sources (animal power),
and by electricity. In 1985, oil and gas constituted about 28% of commercial
energy consumption, as opposed to 44% for coal (other than for power) and 28%
for electricity. However, the share of oil (and oil products) in the total is
increasing, especially in transport and in domestic use.
1.06     Coal is, and will continue to be, the main domestic source of
commercial primary energy in India, contributing about 50% of the country's
commercial energy requirements. Total potential reserves are estimated at
about 112 billion tons (equivalent to about 55.3 billion toe), 33 billion tons
(about 16 billion toe) of which are proven reserves. Proven reserves are
equivalent to about 130 years of total primary commercial energy requirements
at current consumption levels. In contrast to the experience in many other
developing countries, the share of coal in domestic energy production in India
has declined only slightly over the years. However, most of the coal is of
low to medium quality (3,500 to 5,000 kcal/kg) and there are still substantial
bottlenecks in coal transportation, with the result that coal is a relatively
expensive energy source in many areas of the country.
1.07     Power. India has extensive hydro potential, and together with the
proven coal reserves, possesses the potential to substantially increase its
power generating capacity. Total installed power generating capacity at
present is about 47,000 MW, of which about 67% was conventional thermal, 31%
hydro, and 2% nuclear. Hydro could potentially produce about three times the
current level of power generation from all sources, although only a small
proportion of this has been developed to date. GOI accords high priority to
the development of hydro, but since these projects have long gestation
periods, and are very capital intensive, most of the recent additions to power
generating capacity have been from thermal power plants. The share of thermal
has increased steadily over the last 20 years, and it now constitutes about
two-thirds of generating capacity. At the same time there has also been an
increase in the share of coal used for power generation - from about 202 in



-3-
the early 1970's to about 36% currently - while the share of petroleum has
remained more or less constant (at about 1OZ).
1.08     India's economic growth depends to a large extent on the performance
of the power sector, since power shortages have an immediate impact on almost
all other sectors of the economy. During the 1950's and 60's power generation
kept pace with demand; since 1970, however, supply has fallen short of demand,
largely due to delays in the commissioning of new projects, operating and
maintenance problems, and budget constraints which have limited investment in
the sector. The problem has been aggravated by inefficient operations and
distribution, unreliable coal supplies due to transport problems, and
declining quality of coal. The government is aware of these problems and has
taken steps to address the situation, including developing new Initiatives in
the use of gas for power generation in areas which are far from coal mines.
Nevertheless, the supply of power has consistently been less than demand and
is expected to remain inadequate for some years to come, especially In areas
where coal is not readily available.
Petroleum
1 .09    India is reasonably well endowed with petroleum resources, although
it is not self sufficient.  Crude oil production has Increased from
6.8 million tons in 1970/71 to 11.8 million tons in 1979/80* and was about
30 million tons in 1985/86, equivalent to about 75X of India's total petroleum
requirements (para. 2.03).  This sharp increase in oil production has been due
to the rapid development of the giant Bombay High offshore field in the late
1970s, and the discovery during the same period of saller fields onshore in
Gujarat and in Assam. However, the production from the Bombay Righ field has
now reached a plateau level and total output will decline over the next decade
if new reserves are not identified and brought on stream.
1.10     It is estimated that perhaps only a quarter of India's commercially
recoverable petroleum potential have been proven. Exploration has started
only fairly recently and large parts of the potentially hydrocarbon bearing
basins have yet to be explored. There thus remains substantial unproved
resources, although these will tend to be in more difficult geological areas,
and will more likely be gas than oil. Total remaining proven recoverable oil
reserves now stand at about 510 million tons - enough to last 17 years at
current rates of production. However, since the discovery of the giant Bombay
High offshore oil field and the nearby South Bassein offshore gas field in the
1970s, India has not made any similarly large size oil or gas discoveries,
although prospective areas have been identified such as the Krishna-Godavari
Basin, and in deeper structures in Assam which are likely to contain gas
rather than oil. The Government has made concerted efforts to encourage
petroleum exploration not only by the national oil companies, through In-
creasing the budget allocation for petroleum exploration, but also by the
international oil companies (IOCs), through three rounds of exploration
acreage offerings during the last seven years.
c.       Consumption of Energy
1.11     The household sector accounts for a relatively small share of commer-
cial energy consumption (7% of coal, 192 of petroleum and 10% of electri-
city). However, consumption of non-commercial energy in this sector is high,



-4
particularly in the rural areas where the use of electricity and kerosene is
still limited mainly to lighting. Although there will be a gradual decline In
the share of non-commercial energy to total energy consumption as a result of
modernization in the agricultural sector and Increase in the level of
industrialization, non-commercial energy will remain a significant source of
supply for rural households. Energy needs in agriculture are met mostly by
animal power or by the use of liquid fuels, mainly diesel oil, and currently
commercial energy consumption in agriculture accounts for less than 10 of
commercial energy use. However, this has been growing rapidly during the past
two decades, reflecting the efforts made to modernize the sector.
1.12     The industrial sector, which consumes 602 of all energy (including
non-commercial fuels) and about 35% of total commercial energy resources, is
by far the largest user of coal and electricity. In 1982/83 it accounted for
slightly more than 801 of coal consumption, 22% of oil consumption, 47% of
natural gas consumption and 62% of electricity consumption. Over the past
twenty years the energy Intensity (in terms of energy cost per unit of value
added) of the industrial sector has increased, particularly in heavy
industries such as steel, fertilizers and agro-industries. However, the
growth of energy intensity in the industrial sector is expected to slow down
as a result of the introduction of new, energy-efficient technologies, the
more efficient use of existing capacities, and improvements in the design of
plants and machitiery, as well as the Introduction of low energy intensive
industries. The transport sector is the largest user of petroleum products
and the second largest user of coal. Over the past twenty years the structure
of demand has changed considerably as a result of the rapid growth of road
transport and the substitution of diesel electric for steam locomotives. In
1980/81 oil products accounted for 66% of the commercial energy consumed in
the transport sector compared to 47% in 1970/71. Current projections in the
transport sector indicate continuing decline in coal consumption as road
transport increases in importance and as railways continue to shift to more
efficient diesel electric locomotives, thereby contributing to a growing
demand for petroleum products.
D.       Government Strateggy in the Energy Sector
1.13     Significant increases in energy demand are forecast over the next 20
years as population grows and as the economy becomes more heavily industrial-
ized. Demand is expected to grow most rapidly in the household and industrial
sectors, and the demand for electricity and petroleum is expected to grow more
quickly than the demand for coal. The country's energy requirements will far
outstrip domestic supply for the foreseeable future, although the negative
effects of this overall shortfall can be reduced by increases in domestic
energy production and, to a lesser extent, by improvements in conservation and
energy efficiency. GOI's strategy in dealing with this situation is to:
(a)    increase power generating capacity as rapidly as possible,
including new initiatives in the use of gas for power
generation in areas which are far from coal mines;
(b)    encourage the use of coal as a commercial fuel;
*  c)    ei*nufrage the entry of private capital in the energy sector,
particularly in petroleum exploration and production, while,



at the same time, continuing the major efforts of the national
oil companies, as well as Investments in energy transmission
and distribution infrastructure; and
(d)    encourage conservation, energy efficiency and fuel
substitution through appropriate pricing, allocation, and
conservation programs.
1.14     These strategies are reasonable and worth pursuing.  Nevertheless,
even if the Government succeeds in these approaches, a substantial shortfall
In energy supply Is still expected for the foreseeable future, most of which
will have to be filled through imports of crude oil and petroleum products.
The petroleum subsector will, therefore, continue to play a crucial role in
India's energy strategy for the remainder of the century.
II# PETROLEUM SUBSECTOR
A.       Introduction
2.01     In the past there has been a tendency on the part of GOI to play down
the importance of hydrocarbons relative to coal and power; recently however
this tendency has been tempered by a recognition of the growing role of oil
and gas, and by a deep-seated concern over the oil import bills of the past,
coupled with a fear of their potential adverse effects in the future. India
has made a largely successful effort to adjust to the shocks of the two major
oil price increases of the 1970's; however there is a recogn4tion that the
teptieve. could be short-lived, and that there is a need to prepare for poten-
tial,y serioqo shortfalls again in the 1990's. GOI has therefore recently
taken the following steps:
(i)    almost doubled the public iuvestment program in oil and gas
icxploration and development;
(4i)   4ettvely encouraged the involvement of the private sector, in
,'  ; contracting and services (drilling, data acquisition and
/  processing), and through attempts to attract international oil
comjanies into exploration; and
(iii)  expanded the role of natural gas as a replacement for liqdid
hydrocazbons.
These itiatives, rhich the ¢rrent project seeks to support, are further
described in Section E below (para* 2.09).
B.       Petroleum, Reserves and Historical Production
2.02     Current proven remaining recoverable reserves consist of about 510
million tons of oil and 480 billion cubic meters (bcm) of gas, distributed as
shown in the following table:
I,  ;  ;
.,   , -I\ ,.   
,   t i'



-6-
Table 2.1 - Estimated Remaining Recoverable Reserves
Region               Oil                Natural Gas              Total Oil & Gas
(million tons)   (in b       (m)   (in mil;lon_toe) A'(in million toi)
Assam                100             80                65               165
Gujarat              90              20                16               106
Western Offshore    320             380               308               628
TOTAL        3510             48               389                899
a/  Based on the conversion factor of 1,235 cubic meters of natural gas
corresponding to one ton of oil equivalent (toe).
2.03     Oil production has increased dramatically over the last 10 years,
principally as a result of development of the Bombay High field, which contri-
butes about 702 to the current total domestic production, the balance being
produced in about equal proportions from the onshore areas of Gujarat and
Assam. Current domestic production is about 75% of the country's require-
ment. Historical crude oil production by region is given in Annex 2.02 and is
summarized below in Table 2.2. Production from Bombay High has now reached a
plateau level and Is expected to start to decline beyond 1992, while produc-
tion from the two onshore regions (Assam and Gujarat) is being sustained by
Improved recovery levels from existing fields, augmented by production from
several smaller discoveries.
Table 2.2 - Historical Crude Oil Production by Area
(million mT)
Reserve/Production
1970/71      1975/76      1980/81       1985/86    Ratio (Years)
Assam             3.4           4.3          1.7           5.0               8
Gujarat           3.4           4.1          3.8           4.3              33
Bombay High       -              -           5.0         20.8               16
TOTAL        6.8           8.4         10.5         30.1               17
2.04     While small amounts of associated gas have been produced in the Gujarat
and Assam regions for many years, and more significant quantities of associated
gas have been produced since 1981 from Bombay High, natural gas still accounted
for less than 22 of India's commercial energy consumption in 1984/85. Large
reserves of non-associated gas were discovered in 1976 in the South Bassein area
offshore, near Bombay High, and these are expected to go into production by late
1987. The details of natural gas production and use by regions in India are given
In Annex 2.04, and are summarised below.



-7-
Table 2.3 - Natural Gas Production by Region - (NMCMD)
Planned 1993/94
1970/71       1975/76       1980/81       1985/86      Production
Assam             2.7            4.4           2.3           5.6           6.0
Gujarat           1.3            2.1           2.3           2.5           8.0
Western Offshore  -              -             1.8          14.2          38.0
TOTAL        4.0            6.5           6.4         22.3           52.0
Co       Petroleum Products Demand
2.05     Domestic production of crude oil and refined products has never been
sufficient to satisfy demand. However, given the low level of petroleum-
intensity in the economy the shortfall was not a major cause for concern until
the 1960's. At that time increasing industrialization and population growth
resulted in a need to Import increasingly large quantities of oil - to the
point at which over 16.2 million tonnes of crude oil and about 7.5 million
tonnes of refined petroleum products were imported In 1980/81 (more than 75X
of requirements).  The supply/demand situation over the last fifteen years is
given in Annexes 2.01 and 2.03, and is summarized below:
Table 2.4 -   Petroleum Supply/Demad (1970/71 - 1984/85 in million tons)
1970/71         1975/76         1980/81        1984/85
Petroleum Product
Consumption               17.9            22.5            30.9           38.5
Domestic Oil
Production                 6.8             8.4            10.5           30.2
Crude and
Products Imports a/       12.5            15.7            23.5           12.3
Import Dependency            70%             70%             76%            32%
a/ Production plus imports do not equal consumption due to process
losses, changes in stocks, and re-exports
2.06     In the 1970's India supplied almost all of its requirements for
petroleum products by refining imported crude. Since then demand for refined
products has grown at between 5 and 6Z per year - this additional demand has
been met partially by refining increased amounts of domestic crude (princi-
pally from Bombay High), and partially by starting to import significant
volumes of petroleum products. Total refinery capacity has more or less kept
pace with demand (current capacity and demand are both about 40 million mt.
per annum), however, capacity has been underutilized because of obsolescence,



-8-
and the refinery output mix is not matched with the composition of demand,
with the result that there is a disproportionate shortage of middle
distillates - particularly of kerosene and diesel.
D.       Projected Supply/Demand Balances
2.07     The demand for petroleum products is bound to grow - both because
current consumption is low relative to international norms, and because the
patterns of both urban and industrial growth are resulting in increased demand
for petroleum products. The rate of growth of demand has in fact been
increasing, and even with improvements in demand management and energy
efficiency, consumption is expected to grow at over 5% p.a. for the rest of
the century, resulting in demand doubling (to about 80 million mtpa) by 2000.
At the same time crude oil production from existing fields will plateau, and
then taper off through the 1990's, and the tendency will, in general, be to
discover smaller, more marginal new fields, and to boost recovery from
established fields, particularly in Assam and Gujarat, by the application of
secondary and tertiary recovery techniques. The Government anticipates pro-
duction from existing fields by the national oil companies increasing to 35
million tons/year by 1990 (see Annex 2.02). If it is assumed that the pattern
of small to medium discoveries continues at more or less the same rate as
during the 6th Plan, i.e., adding some 150 million tonnes of commercially re-
coverable reserves in each 5 year period - then this would allow increases in
production at the same rate as in the last two Plan periods (about 5 million
tons/year every 5 years) up until 1995, at which point the decline from
existing fields (especially Bombay High) starts to take effect, and production
drops back to the 35 million tons/year level, having peaked at 40 million
tons/year in the 1990's.
2.08     There is thus little reason to believe that the petroleum supply
constraint will be lifted in the forseeable future, and at least over the next
5 years India cannot avoid an increase in imports. The Government has there-
fore accorded high priority to identifying new resources for the 1990's and
beyond. Although there is some room for efficiency gains and savings through
conservation in the use of petroleum products, these are unlikely to reduce
requirements by more than about 10% from the forecast levels. One possibility
is to substitute natural gas for liquid petroleum products, and GOI is
starting to move in this direction, although there are technical and geo-
graphical limits to substitution possibilities. Given the limits on reducing
demand through conservation and gas substitution, the emphasis is being placed
on increasing reserves (through exploration), and production (through in-
creased secondary and tertiary recovery).
E.       Petroleum Policy Framework
(a) Exploration and Production
2.09     There is substantial scope for increasing the domestic production of
oil and gas in India, both by discovering new reserves and by increasing the
rate of recovery at existing fields. Many areas with petroleum potential are
still under-explored, only a fraction of the country's prognosticated
resources have been found, and it is estimated by Bank staff that perhaps some
50% of expected oil and 75% to 80% of expected gas remains to be found. While
most of the 26 sedimentary basins have been partially explored at some time,



- 9 -
only three are producing, seven have hydrocarbon shows without commercial
production, and three more are currently being explored. Large parts of the
potential basins have not yet been explored, and are regarded as being fairly
prospective, although the prospects appear to be more for small to medium-
sized fields, and more for gas rather than for oil. Current prognosticated
petroleum reserves in India are about 15 billion tones of oil and oil
equivalent of gas in place.  Of this amount, about two-thirds are expected to
be located offshore. On the basis of global average recovery factors, this
could be expected to correspond to some 4 to 5 billion tons of oil equivalent
of commercially recoverable petroleum reserves. So far only about 770 million
tons of oil and 600 million tons of oil equivalent of gas has been proven
that is, about a quarter of the likely commercially recoverable potential.
Given this prognosis, India is justified in undertaking an active exploration
strategy. However, considering the large investments and risks involved in
such a strategy, India will need to rely increasingly on private risk capital
in its oil and gas exploration efforts.
2.10     Historically the pace and scope of exploration activity have been
uneven, and there have been only limited new discoveries since Bombay High was
found in 1974. GOI has, over the last few years, placed a high priority on
attracting foreign oil companies as well as on expanding the exploration
efforts by the national oil companies. Almost 800 exploratory wells are
planned by the national oil companies during the current Plan period, with the
expectation that this will add to reserves in place about 1,100 million tons
of oil and oil equivalent of gas (which is almost double the quantity added
over the last 5 year period, and is probably too optimistic).
2.11     To attract private risk capital, the Government has made three rounds
of exploration acreage offerings to the international oil industry over the
last seven years. The first was in 1980 when 32 blocks, offshore and onshore,
were offered to international bidders. The total area offered, almost
900,000 sq. kms, represented about 50% of the country's sedimentary basin
areas. One production-sharing agreement was signed with a consortium led by
Chevron (USA). Invitations to bid on a second round of offerings which
included 50 blocks both onshore and offshore, and covered new offshore areas
west of the Bombay High field and in the deep waters offshore of the Krishna-
Godavari and Mahanadi deltas, coincided with the the world-wide decline in
international oil prices in 1982 and a reduction in exploration investments by
international oil companies (IOCs). As a result, of 37 companies invited to
bid, only a few responded and no contract was signed.
2.12     In early 1985, GOI established a task force to study the contractual
frameworks of other countries and this task force also enlisted the assistance
of outside consultants with a view to improving India's contractual framework
for a Third Round of offering. In parallel, the Bank assessed the concerns
the oil industry had with respect to India's previous offerings. This assess-
ment formed the basis for the Bank's informal advice to GO0, which formulated
a more competitive contractual framework, and expanded the mix of exploration
acreage to be offered. GOI then launched the Third Round of offering in May
1986 with a series of presentations in New Delhi and the major corporate
centers (e.g., London and Houston) of the international oil industry. This
Third Round offered 27 offshore blocks (about 70% of India's prospective off-
shore sedimentary Basin within the 200 meters water depth). Many of the
blocks offered are presently licensed to the Oil and Natural Gas Commission



- 10 -
(ONGC) and OIL. For example, the following were included: two blocks carved
out from OIL's northeast coast license, representing about 65% of this area;
four blocks from the Bank-assisted Krishna-Godavari exploration project area
of ON6C, representing 75% of the offshore area under the project; and two
blocks adjacent or near to this project area. Seven international companies
submitted a total of twelve bids by the December 1, 1986 deadline, covering
nine blocks (a few blocks received more than one bid). The bids are now under
evaluation and it appears that the Third Round would be successful.
2.13     While the Third Round offering represents a very substantial
initiative on the part of GOI to attract private risk capital for petroleum
exploration, it would be unrealistic to expect that IOC's could or should
undertake the major burden of petroleum exploration in the foreseeable
future. National oil companies also have an important role in exploration,
particularly in areas where local political conditions are difficult or where
the prospects are likely to be small to medium-sized and also predominantly
gas-prone. Hence, exploration efforts by the national oil companies should
continue to be encouraged.
2.14     Another, more immediate, problem relates to the level of recovery of
oil from producing fields. The total proportion of oil recovered from a reser-
voir can vary substantially depending on the reservoir characteristics as well
as the techniques and practices used in producing the field. Similarly, the
rate at which the petroleum is produced can be varied to achieve the maximum
production of oil and gas or, alternatively, the maximum rate of return on the
investment. Recovery rates in India are generally lower than those achieved
elsewhere, and there is scope to increase the recovery rates by applying
secondary and tertiary recovery techniques, improving workover services on old
wells, and by decreasing well spacing (in-fill drilling) in some cases. Under
the proposed project, a substantial program of secondary recovery will be
undertaken for OIL's main producing fields in Assam (para. 4.07).
(b) The Role of Gas
2.15     Prognostications indicate that India probably has more undiscovered
gas than oil, and natural gas thus potentially plays a very important role in
India's future energy supplies. To date only small amounts of gas have been
produced, consisting almost exclusively of associated gas produced along with
oil, and a substantial proportion of this gas has been flared for lack of a
developed gas market. More recently larger amounts of associated gas have
become available from the Bombay High field, and the initial infrastructure
has been established to deliver the gas to fertilizer, power plants, and
industrial users in Bombay. In addition, steps are underway to develop the
major South Bassein offshore free gas field, which will produce 20 MMOCVD of
gas (equivalent to about 6.4 million tons of oil annually, or 16% of current
petroleum product consumption).
2.16     Utilization of gas has to some extent been restricted by the absence
of appropriate distribution and transmission infrastructure, and by delays in
developing markets immediately following the discoveries. This situation is
now changing as the magnitude of India's proven gas reserves emerges, and as
the Government begins to recognize the importance of gas as an energy
source. Recently, the Government has established the Gas Authority of India
Ltd. (GAIL), with responsibility for gas planning, marketing, and distribu-



- 11 -
tion, and has authorized construction of the Hazira-Bijaipur-Jagdishpur (HB)
gas pipeline, a 1,700 km. transmission line to take South Bassein gas from the
west coast to fertilizer and power plants In the interior. When plans were
first made for the development of South Bassein, the use of gas was restricted
mainly to large scale users such as fertilizer and petrochemical industries,
on the assumption that gas availability was limited. This policy has been
relaxed over the last year, and COX has allocated some gas to combined-cycle
power plants along the HBJ pipeline route, as well as opening up the market to
medium scale industrial users. The Bank has played a substantial role in en-
couraging GOI to take these steps in the interest of rapidly developing the
gas sector. There Is still, however, a need to ensure the timely development
of new markets, and coordination between market and field development in order
to maximize the benefits of gas use to the economy.
(c) Public and Private Investment
(i) Public Investment Program
2.17     The allocation of public resources to the petroleum sector has grown
substantially over the last decade. Under the recently completed 6th Plan
(1980/81 - 1984/85) the petroleum sector was originally allocated an equiva-
lent of about US$ 5 billion, and this was increased to US$11 billion at a mid-
Plan review, as it became clear that absorptive capacity existed in the
sector, and that accelerated development of the Bombay High system would yield
high returns. Actual expenditure is estimated at only US$9 billion equiva-
lent, reflecting delays in a number of capital projects. Despite the very
large allocation of public investment, the sector remained a net contributor
to public finances, paying approximately $15 billion equivalent in taxes and
duties over the Plan period, according to preliminary estimates.
2.18     Under the Seventh Plan (1985/86-1990/91) about 126 billion Rupees
(approximately US$10 billion equivalent out of a total of public sector
investment during this period of about US$140 billion) has been allocated to
the petroleum sector, broken down as shown in Table 2.5.
Table 2.5 Budget Allocation for the Petroleum Sector
Seventh Plan Period (1985/86 - 1990/91)
Exploration and Production         Re. billion   US$ billion
ONGC                                87.5           6.7
OIL                                  9.5           0.7
Gas Infrastructure (GAIL)               9.5           0.7
Refining & Marketing
00I & BIL                            5.2           0.4
Oil Marketing and Distributing
Companies                        14.5           1.1
TOTAL                                 126.2           9.6
Source: Ministry of Finance Report on Seventh Plan



- 12 -
A high priority has been accorded to exploration in the current Seventh Plan
in order to prove up new reserves to replace Bombay High production. All firm
development programs have also been financed, with the understanding that
additional funds will be made available during the annual review as necessary
to implement other high priority production projects currently deferred, as
well as for any new discovery which can be developed during the Plan Period.
Exploration programs have been fully financed to the extent that GOI believes
the implementation capacity exists to carry them out, again with the
understanding that additional money will be made available if the results are
encouraging. However, there have been some cut-backs from the original
requests for the acquisition of capital goods, on the basis that more services
should be contracted out, and this is a reasonable decision which the Bank has
encouraged. In the natural gas sector most funds are allocated for the large
on-going infrastructure projects (such as HBJ pipeline and South Bassein gas
field development) to exploit the western offshore gas fields. The government
has cut back on the refinery sector, making only token comitments against the
huge amounts requested for new refinery projects.
2.19     The allocation of about $10 billion to petroleum should be viewed
against the background of a request for almost $22 billion equivalent from the
national oil companies. Although ONGC and OIL are largely self-flnancing, the
Government has cut their investment proposals substantially; partly because of
the overall public sector budget constraints, and partly because 001 has
adopted an active policy to increase private sector participation in the oil
industry. For example, the Government is promoting the private sector (Indian
and joint-ventures) role in the petroleum support services and supply
industries, thereby reducing ONGC's and OIL's requirement for capital
expenditures by contracting for these services instead.
(ii) Role of the Private Sector
2.20     Following the initial growth of the domestic petroleum industry in
the public sector in the 1960's and 70's, GO0 has been encouraging the
devolution of responsibilities onto private sector companies for the provision
of goods and services. This includes encouraging the development of numerous
joint-ventures to supply oil field services and to manufacture and lease
drilling equipment and consumables. Typically these joint ventures involve
domestic private capital and manufacturing/service capability with
international oil industry contractors/suppliers who provide the necessary
specialized technical expertise. In addition much of the offshore equipment
and services are provided directly by foreign private companies on the basis
of international competitive bidding. During the last two years there has
been a marked shift in emphasis away from public financing of petroleum sector
capital investments; this can be seen most notably in the formulation of the
Seventh Plan, under which GO1 (a) instructed ONGC to cut its drilling rig
acquisition program by about 50%, and instead to lease rigs from the private
sector, and (b) a decision was made not to commit public funds for full
financing of the proposed new Karnal and Mangalore refineries (at a cost of
almost US$2 billion), but rather to seek joint-venture private partners to
develop these projects.
2.21     The other, and perhaps most important, aspect of COI's shift away
from full public sector development of the oil sector has been the recent
Third Round exploration offering, under which IOCs are being invited to bid on



- 13 -
offshore acreage to explore on a sole risk basis. Under this arrangement oil
companies would commit to a certain program of exploration work at their own
cost, In exchange for a share of subsequent production in the event that
hydrocarbons are found. Also, under the current Third Round offering a wider
variety of higher quality acreage is being offered, and the terms and condi-
tions proposed are competitive with those offered by countries of similar
prospectivity. Perhaps most importantly, 001 has Incorporated substantial
flexibility in the terms (a problem in earlier rounds). Judging from the
favorable Third Round results (para. 2.12), the improved terms and acreage
have made a difference, particularly considerlng that oil companies have cut
back substantially on exploration budgets worldwide due to cash-flow
constraints. The Bank will continue its dialogue with, and informal assis-
tance to GOI in mobilizing private capital in support of the country's
petroleum sector strategy (para. 2.30).
P.       Petroleum Pricing
(a) Producer Prices
2.22     Domestic crude oil prices are set by the Government with the view of
providing sufficient profits and cashflow to finance a major portion of the
Investments of the national oil companies. The national oil companies are
currently paid a fixed producer price of Rs 1513/ton for crude oil. From
this, a royalty of Re 192/ton and Cess of Rs 300/ton are deducted by the
Government immediately, along with a standard 4% sales tax, resulting in a net
producer price of Rs 963/ton, corresponding to about $10.15/Bbl. This is
reasonable both relative to average realized producer prices elsewhere in the
world (i.e., net of Government share and production royalties and taxes), to
the cost of imported crude (currently about $15/Bbl.), and to the estimated
average production costs of about $4.50/Bbl. The national oil companies,
therefore, realize a reasonable profit which provides adequate cash flow to
enable them to finance their debt service and a major portion of their
investment programs. However, all exploration and development decisions by
the national oil companies are based on international prices, and hence, the
administered crude oil price does not act as a disincentive to exploration and
development. Under the production-sharing contractual framework with IOCs,
the oil they produce will be priced at international levels.
(b) Consumer Prices
2.23     The Government is aware of the need to conserve and promote the
efficient use of energy. To this end, it has consistently set domestic retail
petroleum prices on the basis of appropriate border prices.   An exception is
made In the case of kerosene for rural and household use which is subsidized
for social reasons, and of gasoline which is sold at about twice the import
price, as a means of discouraging excessive consumption. Overall, the average
retail price of petroleum products on a consumption-weighted basis is about
2.3 times the border prices at present. The current administered prices are
as shown below in Table 2.6.



- 14 -
Table 2.6:  Petroleum Product Prices (1984/85)
(Rs per kiloliter)
Current         Estimated            Ratio of             Current
Domestic      Border Pricesa/    Domestic to Border  lnternatiqn
Products             Price           1984/85            Price (1984/85)      Price Ž1
Naphtha                    3211            3000                1.07                 1690
(for fertilizer)         1982              -                   -                     -
Gasoline                   6369            2938                2.17                 1800
Kerosene                   1922            2750                0.70                 2380
Diesel (HSDO)              3008            2750                1.09                 1680
Fuel Oil                   2903            2088                1.39                 1350
a/  At Rs 12.5/US$
b/   Late 1986, estimated, converted at Rs 13.0/US$
2.24     Following the recent drop in world oil prices, these domestic prices
are high relative to the border prices of imports; however, 001 has made a
conscious decision not to realign domestic prices because: (a) given India's
net deficit of middle distillates, GOI does not want to give signals to
consumers which may discourage conservation measures, or encourage Investment
in petroleum intensive technologies which may be expensive to supply in the
longer run; and (b) it wishes to take advantage of the resource mobilization
opportunity presented by the present gap between low international prices and
domestic prices. India's pricing regime is reasonable in light of these
legitimate concerns. However, if low International prices persist for an
extended period, GOI would need to review Its domestic pricing structure.
o.       Subsector Institutions
2.25     In the public sector, two companies, ONGC and OIL, have traditionally
undertaken petroleum exploration and production activities. ONGC had, and
will continue to have, the largest involvement in the petroleum sector
accounting, at present, for about 901 of the domestic petroleum exploration
and production activities. OIL accounts for the remaining 101. AMother
public sector enterprise, the Indian Oil Corporation, handles India's crude
oil imports and accounts for a major share (about 55Z) of the domestic
refining capacity. Six other public sector refining companies account for the
balance of the refining capacity.
2.26     The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas is responsible for policy
making in the petroleum sector. It monitors activities in the sector closely
and vets the programs and budgets proposed by public sector enterprises. The
Oil Industry Development Board (OIDB), a public body created In 1974, provides
some financing to public sector enterprises for investments in petroleum
exploration production, transportation, and refining. Its only source of
funds is a cess levied on domestic oil production. The Department of Economic
Affairs of the Ministry of Finanee Is responsible for approving foreign
exchange expenditures and for mobilizing forelgn exchange resources. Finally,
both the Ministry of Finance and the Planning Comission review and approve
the budget proposals of ONGC and OIL as endorsed by the Ministry of Petroleum



- 15 -
and Natural Gas. The attached map (IBRD Map No.16988R) presents the main
features of India's petroleum subsector.
H.       The Bank's Role and Lending Strategy in the Petroleum Subsector
2.27     Most of the Bank's lending operations to India in energy have been i'a
the power subsector (32 Bank/IDA operations for a total of US$ 3,900.0
million) and span a period of 35 years. However, the Bank's involvement in
the petroleum subsector has grown substantially within the last seven years.
Five loans have been made to GOI for 0GC projects, the first two were for the
development of the Bombay High field 1 (US$ 550 million in all);   e third
for exploration in the Krishna-Godavari Basin (US$ 165.5 million)_ , £e
fourth for offshore gas development in South Bassein (US$136 million) -; and
the fifth for exploration aqd production improvement schemes in the Cambay
Basin (US$ 242.5 million) A . A loan of US$ 200 million has also been made
for the modernization of several refineries -J. The Bombay High I and
Bombay High II projects were satisfactorily completed and completion reports
have already been issued 5, which highlighted the following achievements:
(a)  increase in domestic production of crude oil (para 2.28);
(b)  accelerated ONGC's move away from reliance on the Government for
external financing and was able to borrow on its own account
over US$1.0 billion during the life of the project; and
(c)  the use, for the first time by ONGC, of experienced contractors
on 'turnkey contracts' including detailed engineering,
procurement, installation and commissioning to achieve timely
project implementation without unnecessarily increasing project
costs.
2.28     In general, therefore, the principal objectives of Bank lending In
the energy sector in India have been: (a) to accelerate the development of
domestic energy resources as a replacement for imports and to relieve energy
shortages; (b) to assist in the transfer of technology to improve exploration
1/       Loan 1473-IN, approved in June 1977 and Loan 1925-IN, approved in
December 1980.
2/       Loan 2202-IN, approved In October 1982.
3/       Loan 2141-IN, approved in February 1983. The original amount was
US$222.3 million, but US$86 million was cancelled.
4/       Loan 2403-IN, approved April 24, 1984.
5/       Loan 2123-IN, approved in April 1982.
6/       Project Performance Audit Report No. 4139, dated October 13, 1982,
for Bombay High I, and Project Performance Audit Report No. 6237,
dated June 4, 1986, for Bombay High ll, respectively.



- 16 -
and production; (c) to help promote efficient energy utilization and pricing
policies; and (d) to help mobilize additional external finance including pri-
vate risk capital. In the oil and gas sector, the Bank's strategy has evolved
along with development of the sector. Firstly, the Bank supported ONGC's
original efforts to accelerate production from Bombay High at a time when
rising oil prices have seriously handicapped the Indian economy (Bombay High
project I and II). As a result, India was able to increase domestic pro-
duction from 6.8 million tons In 1970/71 (equivalent to 31% of demand) to
30.1 million in 1985/86 (or about 75 of demand). Secondly, in supporting
exploration in the Krishna-Godavari (K-G) Basin, the Bank ts objective was to
enhance the prospectivity of the K-G area by supporting ONGC exploration
efforts In this area and also to encourage an "open door' policy toward
foreign oil company participation. This objective was achieved, in that the
exploration efforts resulted in several potential commercial gas discoveries
both offshore and onshore, and during the recent Third Round offering of
offshore acreages, four (out of six) offshore blocks offered from this area
received at least one bid each. Also, through the participation of foreign
contractors in drilling and other services, ONGC has been able to upgrade Its
exploration and drilling capabilities. Thirdly, as the size of the western
gas resources became known, the Bank encouraged GOI to accelerate their
development (South Bassein project) and promote the wider use of gas.
Fourthly , under the Cambay Basin project, the Bank's role was to assist ONGC
improve its efficiency in onshore operations, both in exploration and develop-
ment, which had received less attention during the period of accelerated
development of the Bombay High oilfield. Under this project, ONGC would be
able to develop its capabilities in optimizing production from existing mature
oilfields, as well as initiate production of its significant heavy oil
discoveries.
2.29     There is no doubt that these efforts have yielded very encouraging
results, and the emphasis is now shifting to institutional and policy
development aimed at maintaining total production levels, and increasing the
efficiency with which fuels are used. The strategy over the next five years
will encompass two main thrusts:
(a) To enhance production and to improve the effectiveness of
exploration activities by strengthening domestic institutions,
improving techniques, and assisting in attracting foreign
investment; and
(b) To encourage efficient utilization of India's gas reserves by
supporting the marketing, down-stream processing, transport and
distribution facilities needed to serve high-valued industrial
and commercial users.
In addition to these objectives, the Bank will continue its sector-wide
involvement in efficient interfuel substitution by suporting selected projects
and carrying on a dialogue on fuel pricing, gas products processing and
refinery investment priorities.
2.30     Bank staff have discussed with GOI and OIL various frameworks for
encouraging the entry of private capital in the petroleum sector. GOI
indicated its policy to attract private risk capital for oil exploration and
development in India, has been further demonstrated by, (a) the recent "Third



- 17 -
Round" offering of offshore acreages to the private sector in which attractive
portions of OIL's and ONGC's offshore license areas were included consisting
four blocks representing 751 of the Krishna-Godavari Exploration Project area
of ONGC (a lank-supported project) and two blocks adjacent or near it, as well
as two blocks representing 65% of the NBC license area of OIL (para. 3.02);
and (b) by encouraging the formation of joint ventures with international
companies in the petroleum support services sector (drilling, data acquisition
and processing). These initiatives, which include significant improvements in
India's incentive policies, show GOI's commitment to encourage private sector
participation, particularly in the currently depressed oil market.
2.31     The proposed project aims at assisting OIL in its efforts to increase
production from its mature fields through the application of more effective
production techniques as well as to improve the effectiveness of OIL's
exploration activities by strengthening its technical capabilities.  The Bank
can fulfill a substantial non-financial role, by assisting OIL in Its efforts
to improve its technical capabilities and operations. This becomes more
significant particularly as the purview of OIL has been expanded beyond
exploration in Assam to include new acreages for exploration in Rajasthan,
Orissa, the North-East Coast (NEC offshore), and the Andamans. As a result of
this increase in exploration activities, OIL's technical and managerial
capabilities will be stretched, particularly since at the same time, major
efforts are needed to increase secondary recovery at its existing fields, and
take the necessary steps to eliminate the flaring of associated gas in Assam
(para. 3.11).
2.32     The Bank's role will therefore be to support OIL as the company
expands its exploration activities into new areas of more complex geology, and
also in the application of new technologies in enhancing oil production from
partially depeleted fields. Bank support would be in the form of technical
assistance, institutional strengthening, and supporting transfer of
technology. The Bank will contribute to meeting these needs by helping to
expand and finance technical training In support of both the production and
exploration programs, and by bringing in the specialized technical expertise
required to improve operational efficiency. Finally, the Bank will continue
its dialogue with GOI on other initiatives for increasing private sector
participation after the current Third Round Is completed.
2.33     The resources (financial and technical) required for petroleum explo-
ration in India over the next five years are very large, and even with ar.
optimistic scenario about rising international oil prices, foreign risk capi-
tal is not expected to cover a large proportion of the resources that will be
needed. Thus, the national oil companies will continue to have a major role
to play in the country's petroleum exploration and development efforts. Bank
support for the OIL project - particularly the exploration component - is
justified not only to assist the government in formulating and implementing an
appropriate petroleum strategy, but also to assist the national oil companies
In developing and undertaking effective petroleum exploration and development
programs. In doing this, the Bank would not be displacing potential private
sector investmento in oil and gas exploration and development. In the context
of the proposed project, the exploration areas included (i.e., Rajasthan) were
previously offered to the OIC's under the first and second round of acreage
offering but were not taken. These are also gas prone areas unlikely to
attract IOC interest.



- 18 -
2.34     During the appraisal of this project, the Bank staff also reviewed in
detail OIL's overall investment program as well as the proposed project scope,
and suggested ways of (i) modifying and improving the scope of the exploration
program for Rajasthan and the North East Coast; (ii) improving OIL's drilling
and other operational policies and practices, particularly in the implemen-
tation of secondary recovery techniques for improving oil production in the
partially depleted fields in Assam; and (iii) assisting the Government In its
efforts to attract private sector participation in oil exploration and
development.
2.35     In addition to assisting in ensuring the implementation of an effi-
cient hydrocarbon exploration program, the Bank also has an important role in
supporting OIL in ensuring efficient exploitation and utilization of the gas
reserves. Under the project, facilities will be installed to use the current
surplus of associated gas in the Assam area. In the longer run, it is likely
that substantially greater amounts of free gas would also be available in the
north-east region, and in order to ensure that the optimum use is made of
these resources, the Government has undertaken a study to evaluate gas dteve-
lopment and utilization options for the region. As a result of its experience
with gas utilization studies, the Bank could contribute to Its progress and
recommendations. GOI has agreed to discuss with the Bank the progress and
results of this study on a regular basi& tiuring the implementation of this
project, (para. 4.12).
2.36     Also, an additional objective of Bank involvement in the OIL program
would be to help introduce OIL to the foreign finantial markets* OIL has not
yet borrowed from the iaternational financial market (as ONGC is now able to
do), but as a consequence of its expanded operatioa, It will need to establish
itself as a credit-worthy borrower in anticipation df its growing financing
requirements. OIL will benefit from association with the Bank as it attempts,
for the first time, to raise comercial finance in support of Its investment
program.
IlI. TUE OIL INDIA LIMITED (OIL)
A.       Backgroun end operatio S
(a) Corporate History
3.01     The beneficiary of the proposes loan would be Oil India Limited
(OIL) 1l The entity which Is now Oil India Limited is a descendant of the
1/       The Indian Government first raised the possibility of Bank assistance
to OIL in April 1985, during the course of a Bank Supervision mission
of an ongoing project with ONGV.. A project Identification mission
then visited India in July 1985, which was followed by appraisal
missions in April and July 10$6.



-19-
, , ,  I '
,,.,'/,Assa Oil Company, which was originally established with the discovery of the
'Dkgboi oil field in Assam in 1867. Subsequently, the Assam Oil Co. was bought
by the Burmah tit Company (U.K.) in 1921, and operated as a Burmah Oil
subsidiary. prod4cing and refining oil in the Assam region until 1959.  At
that timez,a011 2dia Limited was created as a joint-venture between Burmah Oil
(with two-thirds'.ownership) and the Government of India (with one-third
i0nership).  OIL's Initial major activities were to delineate and develop the
* ,*9orkatiya and Moran oil fields, which were discovered by Burmah Oil, to
coiinue opetations in the oil-producing fields of the Assam Oil Company, and
to build a ppeline to dispatch the crude produced to refineries in
northeabtern t'3ia.  In 1961, GOI increased Its ownership in OIL to SO.
During theJ1 a'a and the 1970's, the company's role gradually expanded to
include exploration and production activities In Assam. Following a major
reorkanization and consolidation of Burmah Oil's international operations, 001
acquired Burmah'  50X share of oil India Ltd. in 1981 (on mutually satis-
factory terms), aed the company acquired its current status.
(b)  Ciurrent Operations
3.02,   OIL is currently involved in:
-(a) oil and gas production from the four main fields of
Nahorkatiya, Moran, Digboi and Jurajan and the smaller fields
, i ,; ~    of,usijan, Langkasi, 8anti, Bogapani, Timali, Rajgarh, and
Khirsang.  The total mining lease area over these fields is
abo ut 2,600 km2.  It currently produces about 2.7 million tons
of crude oil and 1*6 bcm of gas per year.  Current estimates of
recoverable reserves of oil and gas are 48.2 million mt and
72.2 BCN respectively, equivalent to a total of 109.5 mtoe.
The main fields are already experiencing declines in production
I   ~sandt immediate application of secondary and tertiary production
schoqes is necessary in order to arrest this decline and also
to L4rove the overall oil recovery factors for these fields.
I At l uTrent production rates, the Recoverable Reserves/
,i ,"             ' m 4uction ratio for oil and gas are 17 and 46 years
'7\  J.              ti  ctively;
(b). '  tb6carbon exploration in Assam and Arunaghal Pradesh (total
I              explWratloi license area is about 3,200 km ); in Rajasthan
^, 2'            (18,720 km); Orissa (Mahanadi onshore, 8,560 ki2); the N rth
East Coast (NBC) offshore in the Bay of Bengal (28,800 k);
and in the Andamans (10,900 kim).  Ten exploratory wells have
been)drilled ta.the NEC, none of which have encountered
significant hydrQcarbon shows. Exploration in Rajasthan is In
the pre-drilling stage, and one well has been drilled in the
Andaman;
(c) gathering awti treatment of oil and gas in Assam and
'I       ,'.,,        tranisaslo qby pipeline to refineries of larauni (capacity
3.3( mtp&), Bonga1gaon (capacity 1.0 mtpa), Gauhati (capacity
'"    1 l  ;, ,,1 'i
t      ,  .       ./   .
~~~~~~~I 'it.s  ..............   



- 20 -
0.85 mtpa) in eastern India l/; and Digboi (capacity 0.50 mtpa)
in Assam; extraction of LPG; and
(4)   a program of research and development in oil exploration and
production as well as technical services, in support of its
production and exploration activities.
B.       Organization, Management, and Staffing
3.03     OIL is a small, highly regionalized company with a Board of Directors
appointed by GOI consisting of representatives from the Ministry of Petroleum,
the Ministry of Finance, and ONGC as well as four senior executives of OIL.
The Chairman and Managing Director (CMD) manages the day to day operations of
the company; under him are four directors, one each for Operations, Personnel
and Administration, Exploration and Production, and Finance, as well as a
number of staff advisors.  The main bulk of the operation is headquartered in
Duliajan in Assam, and consists of six functional departments each headed by a
General Manager, reporting to the Director (Operations). In addition, the two
groups handling exploration in the new geographic locations (Rajasthan and the
North East Coast) are also headed by general managers reporting directly to
the CMD. The organisation structure is sound, and appears to work well. A
detailed organization chart is provided In Annex 3.01.
3.04     As of October 1985 OIL's staff consisted of about 7,500 employees,
approximately 800 of whom are professional level staff with graduate degrees.
The vast majority (6,700) are involved in oil field and ancillary operations
in Assam, the remaining 900 are split between pipeline operations (450),
exploration in new areas (200), and assorted management and support functions
(250). The staffing levels were reviewed during appraisal, and are considered
appropriate for existing operations, although some additional management and
technical support will be required as OIL expands into new areas of activity
(para 4.18 and Annex 4.02).
3.05     Over the years, OIL has developed a small, but highly competent,
group of technical and management staff. It has also maintained a good
management and financial information system. The private sector operating
philosophy introduced by Burmah Oil is well entrenched in the oranization and
this has allowed OIL to operate and manage its limited (5,800 km=) mining and
exploration license areas in the Assam region in a prudent and economic
manner. Exploration in Assam has steadily added small reserves to make up for
most of the production. The petroleum reservoirs have aleo been produced in
line with oil industry norms to optimize the long-term quantity of hydrocarbon
recovery. OIL has also taken effective measures to protect the environment
and ensure safety of its workers. On the whole, OIL is a well-managed small
company, even by international standards. The major organizational challenges
1/       In addition to OIL, ONGC also produces 2.7 mtpa of oil in Assam.
Except for a small amount that is refined in Assam, the bulk of the
4.9 mtpa of crude oil produced by both OIL and ONGC in Assam is
ttansported by pipeline (operated by OIL) to Inland refineries In
eastern India.



- 21 -
faced by OIL are: (a) the experienced professional staff are few in number and
will be stretched in handling the new activities; and (b) their technical
experience is limited to activities in Assam and to a lesser extent In India,
with little exposure abroad or in different geological settings within
India. Many of them will require additional technical training, particularly
in new techniques in exploration, drilling, and wOR technologies (Annex 4.02
and para. 3.10). Partly because of these limitations and as matter of policy,
most seismic data acquisition and processing in the new concession areas are
being done by contractors. Finally the company requires up-to-date equipment
in all facets of oil exploration and development.
3.06     OIL has a good management information system enabling its management
to supervise and monitor the activities of each of its regions. In addition
to periodic operational reports, quarterly progress reports are prepared on
all ongoing projects and implementation schedules and cost estimates are
regularly updated. Projects are routinely evaluated, both technically and
economically, during implementation. Quarterly financial statements are
prepared to keep the management and national authorities abreast of operating
results (para. 3.14).
C.       Investment Program
3.07     OIL's current investment plans were approved as part of the country's
Seventh Plan over the period 1985-90. In general, expenditure proposals are
worked up by OIL for long-term investments over the 5 year horizon, and these
are reviewed by the Government for consistency with the country's overall
national petroleum strategy, as well as to ascertain their priority relative
to other possible investment options. This process results in an approved set
of projects against which OIL can budget on an annual basis, with the
assurance that additional funds will be made available if necessary to
complete the investment program. Under the approved investments of the
Seventh Plan period, OIL would be largely self financing and although OIL has
several high priority projects, these are temporarily kept out of the approved
investment program due to the government's overall budgetary constraints. As
a result OIL's exploration budget has been cut to a modest level. However in
the event that initial exploration results are favourable, then the appraisal
and development activites will need to be accelerated and will need to be
financed through external borrowings. In addition to the five year program of
major investments, OIL also has a notional rolling 10 year plan of investments
covering recurrent expenditure on such activities as field development and
secondary recovery.
3.08     OIL's planned investment program over the Seventh Plan period totals
about US$978 million but only about 75% has been approved by the Government
amounting to approximately US$731 million (9.5 billion rupees). The approved
program is broken down approximately as follows:



- 22 -
Re. (billion) US$ (Mlllion)
Assam Production
-  Drilling                       1.3               104
-  Bquipment                     4.3                332
-  Pipeline                        .2                13
subtotal                         5.8                449
Exploration:
-  Assam                          1.4               107
-  Rajasthan                       .7                53
- Mahanadi Onshore                 .1                 8
-  NEC                            .9                 69
-  Andamans                        .6                45
Subtotal                         3.7               ]2
TOTAL                                   9.5               731
Overall OIL's planned investments is a balanced program, both relative to the
national strategy for the petroleum sector (which Involves a mix of improved
recovery from existing fields with exploration for resources in new areas) as
well as OIL's corporate strategy, and in terms of the individual investments
Involved, each of which has been appraised using cost-benefit analysis,
Da       Current Operating Performance and Challenges
3.09     Before the development of the Bombay High offshore field in the late
1970's, OIL (and previously the Assam Oil Co.) produced over half of India's
domestic output of crude oil. Over its 85 years of corporate existence OIL
has exhibited a high degree of technical competence and innovation. OIL is
credited with many technical advances and achievements in the oil industry,
including several drilling depth records, development of the world's first
crude conditioning plant, and the construction and operation of South Asia's
longest crude pipeline, which was among the most advanced in the world at the
time of its construction. OIL's most important achievement, however, has been
the consistently efficient management of its reservoirs and field production
operations, which have resulted in a cmulative production of close to 60
million tons of crude oil from its Assam fields to date. Also, as a result of
its diligent program of exploration activities in Assam, which has resulted in
the discovery of 16 new oil and gas fields in the last 30 years (9 in the last
15 years), OtL bas been able to increase the estimates of its total
recoverable reserves from about 40 million toe In 1960 to almost 90 million
toe at present* At the same time OIL has undertaken new operations, including
the development of LPG and condensate plants capable of producing 40-60,000
tons of LPG per year, In order to optimise the use of natural gas.
3.10     Bank staff have reviewed OIL's technical operations during project
appraisda, and have found that, In general, OIL's technical staff are familiar
with the literature on the state-of-the-art in petroleum technology and field
practices, and have applied some of these new technologies on a limited or
pilot scale. Hbwever, most of the production and exploration practices and
facilities are based on old technologies and obsolete equipment. Within the
context of the technology and capability of equipment available, OIL technlcal



- 23 -
staff have acquired proficient operating skills generally at par with the
levels of performance in the lnternational oil industry. However, while these
old technologies and related praetices were adequate for the Initial
exploration and primary production of the Assam oil fields, they are
inadequate for maximizing the exploitatlon of partially depleted or "old"
fields and for exploring the less obvious and more subtle hydrocarbon traps in
areas of complex geology, including drilling of deep traps which appear to be
highly prospective in terms of natural gas.
3.11     In order for OIL to inerease its production levels of both gas and
oil from these "old* fields, to expand its exploration activities into new
areas, and to remain a competitively viable exploration and production company
during the rest of this century, it will have to take some decisive actions
along several fronts. Firstly, it will have to expand and strengthen its
training program to upgrade the technical capability of its staff. Secondly,
it will have to: (a) replace and upgrade its existing obsolete equipment and
technology for exploration, drilling and production, including implementing
workover services on most of Its wells in Assam; and also implement a gas
utilization strategy to make use of the associated gas, most of which is
currently flared for lack of market; and (b) use technical consultants to help
design and evaluate its secondary and tertiary production improvement schemes
and expose its staff to the application of more recent and advanced technology
In oil exploration and production. Thirdly, it will have to: (a) diversify
its sources of foreign exchange financing in the near future, particularly the
use of commercial bank loans, while keeping the overall debt/equity ratio and
debt service coverage ratio at reasonable levels; and (b) diversify its
explorstion areas and risks, including taking steps to evaluate the
possibilities of forming joint-ventures with IOCs as a means of supplementing
Its exploration expertise, spreading its risks, ensuring additional risk
capital for its exploration ventures and creating opportunities for technology
transfer in oil exploration and development.
3.12     The OIL management is aware of these requirements and has already
taken steps designed to address some of these issues. For example, steps have
been taken to: (a) use foreign contractors and consultants for drilling as
well as for seismic data acquisition, processing and interpretation in
Rajasthan and the NBC; (b) establish training institutes in Assam for its
technical and managerial staff (Annex 4.02); and (c) acquire new exploration
license areas outside Assam. The proposed project will reinforce and
complement these actions by providing assistance in evaluating and designing
optlmum exploration and production programs in Rajasthan and Assam, by
acquiring modern equipment for data acquisition and processing for upgrading
OIL's research and development capabilities, and by providing consultancy
services for the implementation of the production improvement schemes.
B.       Accounts and Audits
3.13     OIL's accounting system has been largely computerized and its
accounts have been maintained satisfactorily. Its accounting practices are
described in Annex 5.01. The 1956 Companies Act requires corporations to
utilize, for financial reporting purposes, depreciation and amortization rates
at least equal to 951 of the rates prescribed in the Income Tax Act. Thus,
for practical purposes, accounting for tax purposes is the same as for
financlal reporting and management purposes. At present, the depreciation and



- 24 -
amortization periods applied by OIL for financial reporting purposes
correspond exactly to those prescribed under the tax laws. These periods are
much shorter than the economic life of the related assets. As a result, OIL's
reported net profits ase generally understated during periods in which OIL is
implementing major investments.
3.14     OIL's internal control procedures are satisfactory.  Individual
fields are managed on a cost center basis. OIL's financial results are
reported monthly to the Ministry of Petroleum. Separately, detailed budget
variance analyses are presented to the Board of OIL every quarter. Its
internal auditing department, which reports directly to the Executive
Directors, undertakes technical and financial audits of its Duliajan and pipe-
line operations. In order to cope with its increasing scope of activities,
OIL is in the process of reorganizing its internal auditing department. As an
interim measure, all the offices and projects which are not included in the
Duliajan operations (Rajasthan, offshore exploration, etc.) are being audited
by an independent accounting firm (Price Waterhouse & Company of India) which
is satisfactory.
3.15     Under the provisions of the 1956 Companies Act, an annual Statutory
Audit of the Company is performed by independent auditors appointed by GOI on
the recommendation of the Auditor General. The independent auditors are also
entrusted to report on tax aspects as required under the statute. In addition
to the Statutory Audit, a Government Audit is also undertaken by the Auditor
General of India which among others covers Proprietary Audit. The Government
has authorized OIL to set the crude oil transport tariff at such a level which
would allow OIL to earn an annual rate of return of 121 of the net worth for a
period of 3 years on the capital employed in the pipeline operation. OIL's
basis for transport tariff is audited annually by the Oil Coordination
Committee of the Ministry of Petroleum. In summary, the auditing arrangements
for OIL are satisfactory. OIL has agreed to set up and maintain separate
accounts for the project. In addition, the project's accounts and OIL's
accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable t  the Ban  and
would be submitted to the Bank no later than nine months after the end of
OIL's fiscal year.
F.       Insurance
3.16     OIL has all of its production assets insured with the National
Insurance Co. Ltd., a subsidiary of GOI's General Insurance Corporation. Its
insurance arrangements are satisfactory.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.       Background
4.01     Until 1978, OIL's exploration and production operations were limited
to areas in the Upper Assam shelf, where it has drilled over 1,000 exploration
and production wells during the last 25 years. The current rate of production
is about 2.7 million tons of oil and 1.6 billion cubic meters (bcm) of gas per
year.  OIL's estimated original geological (in-place) reserves in the Assam
area are about 417 million tons of oil, and over 140 bcm of gas (or about



- 25 -
560 million toe), of which about 183.5 million tons of oil and 106 BCH of gas
are recoverable through primary depletion techniques. As of December 1986,
over 139 million tons of oil and 34 BC4 of gas have been recovered. The
remaining recoverable oil reserves of about 48.2 million tons would be
depleted within the next seventeen years at the current producing rate unless
additional reserves are discovered or higher ultimate recovery factors are
achieved through secondary and tertiary recovery methods. Thus, it i8
Important that OIL embark on an enlarged exploration program and implement
advanced production schemes in order to increase its petroleum reserves and
also maximize production.
4.02     OIL's plan for increasing its hydrocarbon reserve base are:  (a) to
step up exploration in the Assam area where there still exist a number of
highly prospective areas which have been under-explored to date, (b) expand
Its exploration activities to new areas outside Assam; and (c) apply secondary
and tertiary or enhanced oil recovery techniques in the partially depleted
fields at Assam as a means of increasing the ultimate recovery factors.
4.03     In order to accelerate exploration activities in India and to expand
the purview of OIL beyond Assam, the Government granted, in 1978, a new
petroleum exploration license area to OIL in the state of Orissa (onshore
Mahanadi Basin). Since 1981, additional petroleum expldration license areas
have been granted to OIL by the Government in Rajasthan, the North Bast Coast
(offshore of the Mahanadi Basin), and offshore of the Andaman Islands
(para. 3.02). Most of the areas covered by the Rajasthan and NEC PELs had
been offered to the international oil companies (IOC's) during two rounds of
exploration promotion in 1980 and 1982 and solicited no interest. Thus, OIL
only acquired these latter two PELs after the IOCs did not indicate any
interest. However, until the start of the 1980's, OIL's experience in
hydrocarbon exploration has been limited only to the Assam area and, as a
result, it would require technical assistance in its exploration efforts in
the newly acquired concessions, where the geology is more complex and the
structures are more subtle and deeper compared to the situation in Assam. OIL
would also need assistance in the application of sophisticated production
improvement schemes in its presently producing fields.
B.       Project Objectives and Scope
4.04     The main objectives of the proposed project are:  (a) to achieve
increased production from the partially depleted Assam oil fields and to
increase the utilization of associated gas that is, or will be, flared; (b) to
implement efficient exploration programs in the new licensed areas, as well as
in Arunachal Pradesh for deep gas exploration; and (c) to build up OIL's
technical capabilities in oil exploration and development. To achieve these
objectives, the proposed project will support a substantial part of OIL's
investment over the next seven years.
C.       Project Components
4.05     The proposed project has four main components, with the following
specific objectives:
(1) Production Improvement Schemes in Assam (paras. 4.06 - 4.08) -
to increase production by about 20 mllion tons during the life



26 -
of this project through the application of: (i) infill drilling
of about 90 wells; (ii) pressure maintenance through application
of water injection and artificial lift schemes; (iii) workover
of about 900 wells; (iv) well stimulation including hydraulic
fracturing; and (v) EOR pilots comprising field applications of
enriched gas miscible flood, polymer flood, and steam injection.
(2) Gas Development and Associated Gas Supply Network in Nahorkatiya
and Moran fields (paras. 4.09 - 4.12) - to develop an optimum
gas utilization framework comprising: (i) development of a
reinjection and flowback system; and (ii) associated gas
gathering system.
(3) Exploration (paras. 4.13 - 4.16) - to pursue the search for
hydrocarbons in new areas through acquisition of high resolution
seismic data and judicious exploratory drilling, as well as to
identify the deep gas potential in the State of Arunachal
Pradesh.  The exploration component will be comprised of:  (i)
the drilling of about 6 exploration wells in Rajasthan and the
acquisition of about 10,000 line-km of seismic survey (see IBRD
map no. 19889); and (ii) the drilling of 4 deep Ixploratory gas
wells in the Kumchai area of Arunachal Pradeshit
(4) Institution building (para. 4.17) - to upgrade OIL's technical
capabilities through technical assistance in exploration,
seismic data acquisition and processing, drilling, as well as
through training, and the purchase of laboratory equipment for
research and development
(a) Production Improvement Schemes
4.06     The details of the production improvement schemes are discussed in
Annex 4.02. The improvement schemes will lnvolve implementation of an
extensive well workover operation to remove the backlog of wells in need of
repair, or which require the installation of artificial lifting capabilities
or stimulation to increase productivity, drilling of infill wells,
implementing a more effective reservoir pressure maintenance system, as well
as evaluating a range of enhanced recovery techniques. Currently, three
ollfields in Upper Assam, namely Nahorkatiya, Jorajan, and Moran, account for
about 80% of OIL's current production of about 2.7 million tons per year.
During the appraisal of the project, the Bank staff reviewed OIL's production
practices and the encouraging results of one ongoing enhanced recovery pilot
involving polymer flooding (Annex 4.02). So far, OIL has been able to slow
the decline in production in these fields to some extent, through pressure
maintenance by water injection, and through secondary recovery techniques
consisting of water flood (primarily edgewater line drive) and artificial lift
(mostly gas lift)* However, these techniques have provided only mixed
I/       The Kumchai area included in this project is in the State of
Arunachal Pradesh, part of which are subject to a dispute with
China. However, the project area is outside the Chinese claim.



- 27 -
results, and the productivity of these fields Is still limited due to a
variety of technical problems.  Some of these problems Involve the proper
treatment of the oil emulsions in the produced water, which has limited the
volume of water that can be injected and hence has reduced the effectiveness
of the water drive. Furthermore, the gas lift has become less effective with
increasing water-cuts, and as a result, producing wells showing just moderate
levels of water-cuts (e.g. 30%-50X) are shut in, thereby preventing additional
oil production, although water-cuts of up to 80%-90% are generally still
economic with water floods. OIL believes that the oil emulsion problem can be
solved through the application of certain chemicals and centrifugal pumps to
separate the oil from the emulsion, and laboratory tests are currently in
progress to evaluate the suitability of these techniques (Annex 4.02). In
addition, OIL intends to replace the gas lift pumps with other artificial lift
methods such as rod pumps, submersible pumps and hydraulic pumps, all of which
are less sensitive to high water-cuts, and to modify the current water flood
schemes from edge line drive to pattern flood, which is considered more
effective. This would however require a significant amount of infill
drilling, not only for improving the effectiveness of the pattern flood but
also for more intensive exploitation of the fields through closer well
spacing. During the period 1987/88 - 1993/94, OIL intends to drill about 34
water injection wells and install about 31 water injection pumps for the
pressure maintenance program. About 154 gas lift and 92 rod pumps will also
be installed to enhance productivity.
4.07     With regard to infill drilling, a detailed study (including reservoir
simulation) is underway in order to confirm the optimum number of infill wells
to be drilled. Current plan outlays show a need for about 90 infill wells,
and about 602 (52 wells) of these are envisaged to be completed as producers
with the remainder used as water injection wells for pattern flood. Many of
the wells in Nahorkatiya and Moran fields require workover to improve their
productivity and under the project about 900 wells are planned to be worked
over. Also OIL plans to do hydraulic fracturing on some of these wells as
part of the workover activities. It is envisaged that, as a result of the
application of these production improvement schemes, OIL would be able to
arrest the decline in production from these fields and increase overall
productivity by about 20 million tons over the twenty year project life. The
details of the incremental production due to these various schemes are given
in Annex 4.03.
4.08     Under the project, OIL will undertake three pilot scale FOR field
experiments involving, enriched gas miscible flooding, chemical flooding
(polymer) and steam flooding in the Nahorkatiya and Moran fields. The
preparatory work for these NOR pilots will include detailed reservoir studies
and laboratory experiments. The initial contribution to production of the BOR
pilot tests during the Implementation of this project will be minimal.
However, it is envisaged that the results will enable OIL to evaluate the
economic viability of the various OR techniques for implementation on a
commercial scale at a future date.
(b) Associated Gas Re-injection and Supply Scheme
4.09     OIL currently produces about 4.5 MHMOD of associated gas in Assam, of
which almost half is flared due to low offtake by gas consumers. The Assam
gas supply and demand situation Is summarized in Table 4.1.



- 28 -
Table 4.1
Assam Region Associated Gas Production and Utilization (1984/85) a/
MMCND
Production:  OIL                         4.5
ONGC                        1.1
Total                               5.6
For Internal and Field Use               0.8
Net available for sale                   4.8
Current Committed Consumers
(peak demand)                          3.3
Actual Offtake (1984/85)                 1.9
Balance Flared (1984/1985)               2.9
a/ (See Annex 4.04 for details)
There is great variability both in consumption of gas by current consumers
(tea gardens, power plants, and a fertilizer complex), as well as in the
production of gas, which varies from day to day with oil production. In
addition, two of the largest consumers are relatively new, and have been slow
in starting up, thus taking less gas than expected during their early years of
operation. GOI now plans to construct a gas-based power plant (with
assistance from OECF, Japan) to utilize about 0.8 MMCMD of the surplus gas.
4.10     There is an inherent problem related to the variability of both
associated gas supply and offtake; it is not possible at present to satisfy
the peak demand of the power plant on some days, even though there is a
surplus of associated gas on average over the year. One of the solutions,
Incorporated in the project, is to install a gas re-injection and flowback
system, under which surplus gas will be re-injected into reservoirs for
storage on days of excess supply, and then be reproduced on days of shortfall
in supply. Even under this scheme it is anticipated that on some days total
demand would exceed supply, so in addition to the re-injection scheme a gas-
gathering system will also be installed, which would involve: (a) boosting the
pressure of existing low pressure (LP) gas so that it would be useable in the
commercial gas system; (b) producing small pockets of non-associated gas which
are scattered among the oil fields on an intermittent basis as needed; and,
(c) connecting the OIL and ONGC gas production and distribution grids, to even
out supply/demand imbalances.
4.11     A comprehensive risk analysis has been done by OIL (Natural Gas
Development Note No.2, September,1985) which indicates that under this
arrangement the power plant could be supplied entirely with associated gas for
about 150 days a year, supplemented by a combination of LP and re-injected gas
for about 170 days a year, and using exclusively LP and free gas the remaining
45 days a year. These schemes will be implemented over the next two years.
The economic analysis of gas re-injection is discussed in Chapter VI, and
expected production and utilization figures are given in Annex 4.04.



- 29 -
4.12     In the longer run, OIL and GOI expect that there will be substan-
tially larger quantities of free gas available in the Assam/Tripura/Nagaland
region, and the Bank's technical staff agree with this view. Given the limited
market potential for gas In the region, there is a need to analyse in advance
the potential uses of this gas, and the options for transporting it to other
parts of India. As mentioned earlier (para. 2.35) GOI is currently under-
taking a study of the gas development and utilization options in the Assam
region and has agreed to discuss the results of this study with the Bank
during the implementation of this proJect.
(c) Exploration Component
4.13     The exploration component included in this project covers only the
most difficult and challenging exploration activities in OIL's overall
exploration program. As part of the project, two main exploration activities
will be supported: (M) a seismic survey utilizing advanced equipment and
techniques; and (ii) exploration drilling, including deep drilling for gas.
Mi Seismic Survey
4.14     A detailed discussion of the geology of the areas to be explored
under this project is given in Annex 4.01. Under this project, about 10,000
line-km of seismic data will be acquired including about 3,000 line-km of high
quality seismic data and about 7,000 line-Im of reconnaissance seismic data
now being collected in the Rajasthan PEL 11 This volume of seismic data is
required in order to be able to better define the structures and geologic
plays and hence minimize the risk of dry holes.
(ii) Exploratory Drilling
4.15     Although OIL had originally planned to drill about 20 wells in the
Rajasthan PEL and 4 deep wells in Kuachai, the drilling program finally
approved by the Governmnent and included in the proposed project involves six
exploratory wells in the Rajasthan area and four deep gas exploratory wells in
the Kumchai area in the State of Arunachal Pradesh (Annex 4.02). Based on the
results of the initial seismic survey conducted in the Rajasthan area, three
structures have been identified to be drilled during the first phase of
exploratory drilling there (Annex 4.01). The depth of these structures vary
from 4000m-5500m. The drilling of the three additional wells will be based on
the results of the first three wells and on the completion of the additional
3,000 km of high resolution seismic data to be collected during the second
1/       In addition to the seismic survey included in this project, OIL plans
to continue exploration in: (a) the Assam area, which will involve
significant amount of seismic surveys to assist in systematically
evaluating the more subtle and deeper hydrocarbon traps as well as
explore prospective areas adjacent to producing fields; and (b) in
the NBC area, and this will involve an additional 5,000 line-km of
seismic data in order to have a closer seismic grid and hence better
define the structures, most of which are expected to be relatively
small or moderate in size.



- 30 -
phase of exploration in the Bikaner Basin (eastern part of the Rajasthan
PEL). OIL has concentrated most of its seismic survey to date In the
southwest portion of the Rajasthan PEL which borders Pakistan (see IBID map
no. 19889). Hydrocarbon prospectively of this area has been based on the
successful discoveries of gas made in Pakistan in the Mart structure which is
a continuation of the structural trends In Rajasthan, and also on the results
of the exploration activities of ONGC, which has drilled several exploratory
wells on their adjacent license area (located sothwest of OIL's area), four of
which had good gas shows, including two gas discoveries. The area is,
therefore, considered as gas-prone. With respect to Arunachal Pradesh, the
first two deep exploratory wells will test the potential of deep gas
structures in the Kumchai area. If the results are favorable, OIL would drill
two more wells to further appraise the reserves.
4.16     In the past, exploration in the Assam/Arunachal Pradesh area has been
mainly for oil in shallow horizons (about 3500 i). However, seismic data
indlcate the presence of deep structures and traps which appear to be highly
prospective, and are worth testing, although at these depths, any hydrocarbon
accumulation would be gas or gas and condensate. OIL has limited experience
in deep gas drilling. In 1978, OIL attempted to test one of these gas
structures in Kumchai, and drilled a deep well (about 5500 m) which was
abandoned in 1979 as a result of down-hole problems. The well, however, en-
countered several deep gas horizons, which should be Investigated. Under this
project, the pre-drilling exploration work and upgrading of che technical
capabilities of OIL have been included, In order to ensure proper completion
of these wells. It was agreed with OIL that specialized consultants will be
used as needed to; h-elp ensure successful drilling, comple-tion, well-logig
and production testing of all exploratory wells under the proJect.
(d) Institution Building Component
4.17     The main objectives of this component are to improve OIL's technical
capabilities and field operations through training, use of specialized
consultants and contractor services, and the introduction of new technology,
equipment, and materials as part of the production Improvement schemes, and in
Improving OIL's research and development work. As already discussed above
(para. 3.10), OILs' experienced technical staff are few, and although capable,
academically well-trained and experienced in conventional petroleum industry
operations, they have limited operating experience and exposure In the state-
of-the-art petroleum technology. Most of the experienced staff have spent the
majority of their operating life only in the Assam area, where the geologic
setting is unique. In order to cope with difficult exploration and drilling
conditions in new environments, and also to successfully introduce and
Implement complex ROR schemes, OIL would require outside technical assistance
and training. OIL has an on-going training program and has already
established two institutes in Dhuliajan for training both its managerial and
technical staff. The training program as agreed under this project will
complement these efforts (Annex 4.02). With respect to data acquisition and
processing, the technical assitance component will Include the purchase of (i)
an advanced seismic data processing system and 3-D telemetry seismic data
acquisition system, which will allow OIL to acquire and process high resolu-
tion selsmic data as well as conduct three-dimensional (3D) seismic explora-
tion in areas of complex geology; (11) training equipment, the services of
specialist technical trainers, and overseas training for technical staff; and



- 31 -
(iiI) equipment for OIL's new research laboratory and development centre.
Specialized BOR consultancy services and computer software would be Included
as integral parts of the secondary recovery and BOR components.
D.       Project Implementation
(a) Organization for Project Implementation
4.18     The project would be implemented by OIL on the basis of two main
groups operating in Assam and Rajasthan respectively, and coordinated by a
small supervisory unit in New Delhi. The exploration program in Rajasthan and
both the production Improvement schemes and exploration program in Assam would
be handled under the responsibility of the General Manager and the Director,
Operations for these areas respectively. Procurement will also be monitored
and coordinated by the New Delhi unit although the actual work of preparing
bidding doeuments and evaluation of these documents will be undertaken by the
field units. The project implementation arrangements are satisfactory.
However, during negotiations, it was agreed that OIL shall periodically review
with the Bank the exploration program to be carried o-ut under the project,
and, if warranted by such reviews  agree on suitable modifications on the
basis of new information and analysis acquired during implementation of the
Project. In particular, that OIL shall not proceed with any major
modification to the exploration components under the project or any of its
revision, without giving the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on It.
(b) OIL's and Contractors' Work Program
4.19     The seismic data acquisition and data processing, and the drilling of
the six exploratory wells in Rajasthan, will be performed by international
contractors for which procurement activities are already in progress. Due to
political and security considerations in Assam, It may not be practical to use
a contractor rig for drilling the exploratory wells at Kumchai, and hence
OIL's own rig will be used. This is satisfactory given OIL's assurance to
acquire whatever specialized consultancies are needed (para. 4.16) and the
technical capability of the rig it proposes to use.
4.20     Infill drilling and workover services (except for well stimulation)
under the proposed project will be done mainly by OIL. OIL presently owns and
operates nine drilling and ten workover rigs in Assam. Five of the drilling
rigs are diesel-mechanical powered, and the remainder electric. One of these
heavy size rigs recently purchased from BHL (India) will be used for the deep
gas wells included in the project. The remaining four drilling rigs are of a
medium size, with drilling capacity of about 4,500 m, and these will be used
for the infill drilling. The workover rigs are also of small to medium size,
with workover capacity of about 1500-3000 m in depth. Under the project, OIL
will hire additional medium-size rigs as required for infill drilling. Bank
staff have reviewed OIL's drilling capability (Annex 4.02), and believe that
OIL has the technical capability to carry out the conventional drilling and
workover required under this project.
4.21     In order to ensure a successful and efficient drilling program, the
following were agreed:



(a)  that prior to drilling any O'ploratory well  under the project,
OIL shall complete .1l1a ncerypediling studies  n
surveys uslkg the es   a   ed methodlology available and
prepare a detailed Wt  *U     roram and well casing policy as
well as preliminary pa      o,         will be reviewed with the
(b)  w      cih    ttoit to 4   and develoment wells  OIL shallre
or eac  fe l    wa   casing  oli   and a completion program,
including the type  n  qU&JL;  of volImaterials reauired (e.
cement and =O4) far the w~l.OIL Shall take into account
Bank'  comments on such poli! ad progra  prior to
implementation; and
(c)  if required, OIL haXlI engage specialized consultants and
contractor services dim        driing and completion of such
wells under the Prdect.1
4.22     The drilling load betwe. 0Th and cotttactor'  as designed under this
project is reasonable, and toget 0%r wlth the consultants and the Bank's
technical inputs, should "a&re a satisftctoty project implementation.
(c) Implementation Schedule
4.23     The project would be implemented over a period of approximately seven
years, starting In 1987/88 and 'ending in 1993/94. Annex 4.05 shows the
proposed implementation. ethedule. This schedule was prepared on the basis of
OIL's capabilities as  ell i -the lank's experience with similar projects in
India, and is consIdered ao;.ievable. Procuiement procedures for some of the
contractor services are alroady in progresst and œhould be completed by the
third quarter of fiscal year i987. Drilling (for -eploratory and infill
wells) is planned to commence by the beginning of flscal year 1988. There
should be no diffieulty in meeting the completion targets given the lead time
being provided for.procurement of contractors services.
E.       Project Cost Estimate
4.24     The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$584 million,
including contingencies and custom duties.  The foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$239. m111in, or $bout 44% of total cost. The detailed project
cost estimate appears in Annexes 4..06 and 4.07, and are summarized below in
Table 4.2. Taxes and duties included In the above costs are estimated at
US$77.4 million. The cost estimates are based on 1986 price levels. Physical
contingencies are 10% of base costs. Price contingencies are based on the
following price increases: 3.0% in 1987, 1.0% per year from 1988-1990 and
3.1% per year for 1991-94 for imported goods and services; 6.0% in 1987 and
1988; 7% per year 1989-90, and 4.0% in 1991-94 for domestic goods and
services.



7  /           U!                     ~~~~~~~~33
-AWZ 4.2 Project Costs byM299t
lb MELio                               j;a M _
oa         -            Total        lPb Fl                    Total
A. Prod-tkm kScme
- Water Iectio Schem            508.1        716.8      1224.9         39.1         55.1        94.2
-  Infll lDi.UIZg                673.6        471.6      1145.0         51.8         36.3        88.1
- WirQwer Operations             905.7        583.3      1489.0         69.7         44.9       114.6
- Ekieced OCl Recovery Pilots   348.8         185.9       534.7         26.8         14.3        41.1
Subtotal                 2436.2       1957.6      4393.8         187.4       150.6       338.0
B. 'Gs RIzdectlon Schain             230.3        118.8       349.1         17.7         9.L         26.8
C.   Elratioq
- Rbjasthan (5 ells + 10,000 km 258.6         445.9       704.5          19.9        34.3        54.2
of seismic) 1/
- AMs   (4 deep Vs wls)          188.3        260.8       449.1         14.5         20.1        34.6
8ub4atal (C)              446.9        706.7      1153.6         34.4         54.4        88.8
S ,m,,  'S manic qtpment           99.8         75.4       175.2           7.7         5.8         13.5
'/ ,'f  1   5<' &1-Ve1iiz enut          29.9        26.0         55.9          2.3         2.0          4.3
-            (iktt|    biwultant Services  31.9  19.5      15.4          2.5          1.5         4.0
i',    ..,tal (D),                  161.6       120.9       282.5          12.5         9.3         21.8
lt . al Base Cbst 2/            3275.0       2904.1      6179.1        252.0        223.4       475.4 -
rtvical              @    t      327.5        290.4       617.9         25.2         22.3        47.5
Prioe C nenes            '       618.5        176.6       795.1         47.5         13.6        61.1
'1:tul Project OBt               4221.0      3371.1       7592.1        324.7       259.3        584.0
pterest Dbuibg outorucia         -            -           _            -            -           -
I '
Ibtal Fin c  JAquire       4221.0       3371.1      7592.1        324.7        259.3       584.0
Consists of 3    in0 lo of nw seismie data to be acqirued and 7000 line ka of seismlc
*sirerty  bei, *cdred.
B. e >t Bc1ztzIs $77.4 oll2a In locld         aid dtis
42             a
4./
i~                  -    b



- 34 -
4.25     The cost estimate for the project is based on late in 1986 prices, as
well as estimates prepared by OIL In consultation with Bank staff. It is
consistent with costs experienced in other ongoing Bank projects in and
outside India, and with the Bank's current price escalation forecasts over the
project life as shown in Annex 5.02. The base cost estimates were derived as
follows: (a) drilling costs for development wells are based on OIL's actual
costs for wells of similar depth drilled in the Assam area, while the drilling
costs for the exploration wells (including the deep gas wells in Kumchai) are
based on recent costs of similar exploration wells In India (i.e., Krishna-
Godavari Exploration Project); (iI) seismic survey costs are estimated from
comparable onshore seismic acquisition in other parts of the world as well as
from recent contractor bids for geophysical and data processing in India for
OIL and ONGC; (iii) equipment costs are based on figures supplied to the Bank
by OIL and cross-checked with costs experienced in other Bank projects outside
of India; (iv) technical well services (i.e., cementing, electric logging and
formation testing) are derived from current costs experienced by OIL and by
ONOC and cross-checked with costs in other Bank projects worldwide; and (v)
enhanced oil recovery (EOR) pilot costs were estimated based on industry and
OIL experience.  The phasing of project expenditures is shown in Annex 4.08.
F.       Financing Plan and Items for Bank Financing
(a) Project Financing Plan
4.26     The proposed project represents about 40% of OIL's overall investment
program of about US$1.46 billion during the project implementation period (FY
88-94.). The project is expected to be financed mostly from OIL's internal
cash generation, which is expected to provide about US$384 million (66%)
towards the financing of the project. Borrowing from commercial banks,
eximbanks and suppliers are expected to amount to US$60 million, or 10% of the
financing requirements, and the proposed Bank loan of US$140 million will
provide the balance, corresponding to 24% of the financing needs. The
financing plan is sumarized below.
Project Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Local        Foreign
Currency     Exchange     Total      %
Project Financing Required              324.8        259.2        584.0    100
Financed by:
OIL Internal Resources              324.8         59.2       384.0      66
IBRD Loan.!)                            -        140.0       140.0      24
Other Loans Y                           -         60.0        60.0       10
Total Financin                          324.8        259.2        584.0    100
a/  The disbursement profile for the proposed Bank loan is shown in Annex 4.08
and discussed in para 4.35
b/  Other loans include commercial borrowings and suppliers credits.



- 35 -
4.27     Several of the foreign exchange cost items under the project are
suitable for financing by eximbank, suppliers or buyers credits. These
include compressors, artificial lift equipment, well heads, and tubulars and
accessories, of which about US$60 million are expected to be financed from
these sources. The procedures being adopted by OIL for seeking other external
financing will be similar to those used by ONGC, which involves tendering
major bid packages using global tendering procedures (i.e., ICB) with a
request for financing proposals; the financing offer is optional and is not a
condition of bid qualification. OIL to date has not borrowed from any foreign
commercial bank but has recently utilized some supplier's credits to help
finance its ongoing exploration activities.
4.28     The proposed Bank loan would cover about 54% of the foreign exchange
cost for expenditures not readily financed by, nor suitable for eximbank or
suppliers' credit, such as contractors' and consultancy services and special-
ized drilling materials and supplies. The proposed loan would be made to 001
on standard country terms - i.e., a maturity of 20 years, including a grace
period of five years. The Government would relend the proceeds of the loan to
OIL for a maximum of 15 years Including a five-year grace period at an
interest rate of at least 15% per year. The foreign exchange and interest
rate risks would be borne by the Government. The relending rate Is expected
to exceed the domestic inflation rates (6-7% per year) during the next five
years and the present domestic commercial rate (14% per year) for long term
loans. It should also exceed the Bank's variable interest rate to the extent
sufficient to cover the foreign exchange risk borne by GOI. The five-year
grace period is justified by the seven-year project implementation period and
the fact that about 251 of the project cost is for exploration, NOR pilots,
and training which yield benefits only in the longer term. Execution of a
Subsidiary Loan greement on terms and conditions satisfactor_ to the Bank
would be a condition of effectiveness.
4.29     As discussed in more detail in para 5.10, OIL's financial situation
is strong and Its internal cash generation is forecast to cover about 902 of
its total anticipated investment during the period FY88-FY94 when the project
is being Implemented. While the risk of insufficient financing for the
project is considered small, the uncertainty about the results of future
exploration and production activities, and therefore OIL's overall investment
requirements as well as revenue estimates at the turn of the decade, dictate
that assurances about the financing plan for the project should still be
sought from the Government. It was agreed that GOI will provide OIL or cause
OIL to be provided with sufficient funds to meet the financlal requirements of
the project.
(b) Items Proposed for Bank Financing
4.30     The specific items proposed for Bank financing have been agreed
between OIL and the Bank with the view of ensuring both (a) a high technical
quality for the critical items of the project, and (b) the most effective
implementation arrangements. The Items include: (i) purchase of some of the
equipment, materials and services for the production improvement schemes,
which includes infill drilling, workover services, hydraulic fracturing for
well stimulation, electric logging, well completion services, and consultancy
services for the E0R pilot tests; (ii) high resolution seismic survey in
Rajasthan, for which experienced (foreign) contractor services will be used;



- 36 -
(Wi) contractor services for drilling of exploratory wells; and (iv) techni-
cal assistance as well as purchase of seismic acquisition and processing
equipment, laboratory equipment for research and development, and training of
staff. The allocatiou of Bank funds is summarized below in Table 4.3.
T1ffie 4.3 - Items Proposd for Bknk Finair a/
Amunt Allocated           X of Epuditume
Item                               (in ua$ miMlon)            to be frnmd
A. 
- seidc Sunry & Procesarg         5.2                        901
- DrlliUng Ited1a & Fqpiment     16.2      1001 of foredgn edu     of em-factory cost
-   SiLhz  Servics               13*9                        90%
B. Prndouti ¢          Scl1 S
- Drdllif  and  dkwoer Mtera1s,
SW Is, and Wbll aUipt           58.6      100% of foreign ecibwge or e-factory cost
- Woirwer and DAlUlng Servim.    20.8                       90%
C. OR Pilot Scinm
- Equipmt and Materils           12.7      1001 of fore4gn ebwg  of ex fi#xy owt
- Ooxuutaax  and Softwre          1.3               100Z of fonigp
D. ¶Tedmical AsststAe  and TrAIiff
- Traing & kab tancy              3*9               100 of foreign a*W
B quLpint                         7.4      100% of foreign ewba    or em-factvy cost
TOTAL                     140.0
8  About 101 of the amutz showu in each catqoy wMil be transfend to
an "uad1acate  catqy in the lon dDamwis.
G.       Procurement and Disbursements
(a) Procurement
4.31     During appraisal, Bank staff reviewed OIL's procurement organization
and procedures which were found acceptable with minor modifications. Procure-
ment arrangements for the project are summrized in Table 4.4.
4.32     Equipment, materials and contractor services worth about US$209.3
million, will be procured by International Competitive Bidding (ICB), of which
packages valued at about US$99 million will be for Bank fianceing and procured
in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Small packages worth US$94 million
of equipment, materials and services available locally will be purchased using
local competLtive bidding (LCB) procedures, which permit foreign firms to
bid. These LCB packages will not be financed by the Bank. The "Other" pro-
curement category, valued at about US$203 million, includes: (a) equipment,
materials, and services to be procured under limited International bidding
procedures (LIN), (b) consultants to be hired using the Bank's guidelines for



- 37 -
the Use of Consultants; and (c) OIL force account expenditures for drilling
and related services, and direct local purchases of items, such as diesel
fuel, from the only available local supplier. The equipment, materials and
services In the 'Other" category proposed for Bank financing (under (a) and
(b) only), which are estimated at $40.9 million, will be procured according to
the Bank's guidelines.
Table 4.4 - ProIr_nit Table
Projeet mwAt-                                     Procuremst Mathad                  Tota Cbst
3M  us    omm       X. A.              n W$inlica
1. ~
Sei ie,  hllng & wen Usoeis           47.6      9.4       a5       8.8                74.3
(25.3)                                         (25.3)
Wallttdlsr sils & C..ablw              19.1      2.8      6.8 S1   4.7                33.4
(10.0)    ___                                  (10.0)
-N1OtAL                               66.7      12.2     15.3     13.5               107.7
(35.3)                                         (35.3)
2. fw&todcim MEMtScluus
Id11i & Teahbicl WiUL Serv1sn      55.2      -        64.5 dl  18.7               138.4
(37.1)                                         (37.1)
Rig, Fipuipmmt & &rface FaaLities     73.2      32.3     39.7     22.3               167.5
(18.0)             (3.1)                       (21.1)
Vel Materials & O-usuabls                       11.7     38.2 cl   7.7                57.6
-  -    (21.2) -2(21.2)
SUMMIUL                              128.4     44.0    142.4    48.7                 363.5
(55.1)            (24.3)                       (79.4)
3. GasUtilizatim &Develoit Sctue           -       2D.8     11.6c    5.0                  37.4
4. BR Pilot Proects
Qmsultancy & Sofwre                    4.2                1.1      0.8                 6.1
(1.3)                                          (1.3)
Piot Sw,es                                      14.0     24.4      6.0                44.4
(12.7)                       (12.
SMUfBL                                 4.2      14.0     25.5      6.8                50.5
(1.3)            (12.7)                       (14.0)
5. Tralni             suistance
Equipmnt, iAltany & Suevision         10.0      2.9       8.6      3.4                24.9
(7.4)             (3.9)                       (11.3)
TML                                 29.3      93.9    2)3.4      77.4               584.0
(99M1)            (40.9)                      (140.0)
WEr: PFgures ln            are tie respective awunts to be flrmnod by the Bank.
a Q tan dutties andl tan
.W  Inc1A~. w       allmpetlcn services.
c/Force Amount.
Al/ includs forc Jcount and fl.



- 38 -
4.33     It is estimated that the number of Bank financed procurement packages
will be about 40 as follows:
(i)  Contractor Services:  Ten packages covering seismic data
acquisition and processing, exploration drilling, wire-line
electric logging and formation testing, mud-logging, well
testing, hydraulic fracturing and workover; and
(ii) Drilling/Workover Materials and Laboratory/Training Equipment:
30 packages covering: casing and tubing, drilling and coring
bits, oil well cement and additives, wellhead equipment, casing
accessories, drilling rig parts, electric logging parts, down
hole completion equipment, OR equipment and chemicals, seismic
data acquisition and processing equipment, laboratory equipment
for research and development, and training equipment.
4.34     Items to be financed by the Bank will be grouped whenever possible
into large tenders valued at US$300,000 or more and procured via ICB. Bid
packages for equipment, materials, or services costing less than US$300,000,
or which are available only from a limited number of qualified suppliers, or
whose delivery periods are critical to the timely completion of the project,
may be purchased through limited international bidding (LIB) with quotations
being solicited from at least four suppliers from three different countries.
The aggregate amount of Bank financing for LIB procurement is not expected to
exceed US$ 41 million equivalent. The Bank's standard domestic preference
provisions will apply, at OIL's option, for the evaluation and comparison of
bids submitted under ICB procedures for the project. All essential
procurement documentation relating to tenders valued over US$1 million each
will be subject to prior Bank review. Other contracts will be subject to
post-award review. Bank staff have reviewed two tenders for the hiring of
explofation drilling services which were recently issued. It is proposed that
retroactive financing up to about $15 million for expenditures made after
project appraisal in August 1, 1986 be allowed to cover payments expected to
be made by OIL for services and equipment procured under procedures consistent
with the guidelines before the proposed Bank loan is signed.
(b) Disbursement of Bank Funds
4.35     The Bank's funds under the project will be disbursed as shown in
Annex 4.08. The funds will be disbursed over a period of seven years. This
disbursement schedule conforms essentially with the Bank statistical profile
as of July 1, 1986, for similar projects (i.e., petroleum, refineries, pipe-
lines, energy conservation, etc).
R.       Ecology and Safety
4.36     The seismic data acquisition under the project will take place in a
sparsely populated and lightly utilized area. The project will not involve
any significant forest clearance. Geophysical survey lines and subsequent
exploratory drilling locations would be selected to avoid close proximity to
habitation and water wells. All water aquifers, including surface source
water, will be protected by following oil well drilling standards set by the



- 39 -
industry. OIL will collect in holding pits or dump reservoirs, and then clean
up any drilling mud and chemical contamination that would originate on the
ground surface adjacent to drillsites. Drilling a number of exploratory and
development wells entails some risk of surface blow-outs and the possibility
of fire. The risk, however, will be minimized through the use of blow-out
preventers and sophisticated equipment included in the mud logging unit (which
can monitor traces of gas coming out of the hole). OIL is experienced In the
drilling requireents at Assam and is quite aware of the risks involved, and
has for years maintained an excellent safety record in drilling development
wells. The use of drilling consultants for production testing of the deep gas
wells will also help reduce the safety and environmental risks to normal
levels.
4.37     The by-products and chemicals to be used in EOR schemes have been
investigated and their presence is not judged to be a safety hazard or harmful
to the environment. The polymer being used in the EOR chemical flood is not
toxic. The production of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) is possible with any oil
production operation. If H2S is found to be present in the produced gases
during production testing, plans are to be made to incinerate the gas and
render it suitable for discharge into the atmosphere.
4.38     A large quantity of water will be produced in addition to the oil as
a result of the water injection schemes in the Assam oilfields. Adequate
precautions will be taken by OIL in the handling and disposal of water used
during the water injection processes to ensure that it does not contain
harmful contaminants before disposal into water aquifers. The existing
disposal system currently being used is satisfactory for the current volume of
water produced. This consists of first reducing the oil content in the water
to around 500 ppm by gravity separation, and then disposing it off into the
subsurface strata at a depth of 500 - 800 m through injection wells drilled
exclusively for this purpose, or by injecting the water into dry or abandoned
oil wells. However, for the large volume of formation water expected to be
produced as a result of the project, disposal through subsurface injection at
shallow depth may not be technically and economically viable. As a result,
OIL's production engineers are currently investigating the practicality of
other options, including using the produced water as a continuous source for
re-injection into the oil producing zones of the reservoirs. This method of
disposal, in addition to serving as an antipollution measure, would belp in
reducing the number of water wells to be drilled to supply water for injection
Into the reservoir. It was agreed that OIL shall continue to take necessary
precautions In line with industry practices to protect its workers and the
environment during the implementation of the project and during operation of
the project facilities.
I.       Project Risks
4.39     The risks associated with the project are those inherent in petroleum
exploration and production. in the proposed project, the main risks are: (i)
goological risks; (ii) drilling risks; (ili) uncertainties associated with
achieving the estimated increase in production of oil and gas as a result of
the production Improvement schemes; (iv) uncertainties about the viability of
the 10R pilot tests in terms of incremental oil recovery and costs; and (v)
commercial risks associated with any steeper and longer lasting declines in
the international oil prices.



- 40 -
(a) Geological Risks
4.40     The basic geological risk associated with exploration is the
possibility of not discovering significant hydrocarbon reserves. Petroleum
exploration programs, by their nature, are inherently unpredictable and are
subject to modifications as new information becomes available. Therefore, the
components of the project could, with justification, be significantly altered
during the implementation period, particularly the detailed scope, locations
and drilling programs. In order to minimize this risk, the following
provisions have been included In the design of the exploration program for
wells to be financed by the Bank: (a) the seismic programs will be selected
so as to thoroughly assist in comprehensive evaluation of the attitude, size
and depth of the individual structures in order to minimize the number of dry
holes; (b) drilling would be focussed on prospects that carry high geological
ranking; (c) the entire exploration program would be reassessed by the Bank
and OIL on an annual basis, based on availability of new data; and (d) all
proposed well locations would be evaluated with detailed infill seismic and
fully mapped to determine their priority.  Furthermore, OIL will take into
account the Bank's comments with respect to the pre-drilling evaluation, the
location, depth and drilling program for each well before drilling commences.
(b) Drilling Risks
4.41     The risks associated with drilling will be minimized by the
introduction of high-grade equipment and materials and the use of appropriate
independent expertise whenever necessary in drilling supervision, well
completion and production testing. In addition, the Bank will review the pro-
posed drilling program for each well to ensure that the optimum casing program
and drilling mud program is applied.
(c) Uncertainties in Estimated Incremental Production
4.42     The estimates of reserves and production of the gas and oil fields
are based on the twenty-five years of production histories in these areas, and
the size of the fields. In view of this large data base, and the conservative
approach of OIL to reserve determination, we believe this risk is small.
(d) Success of the EOR Pilot Tests
4.43     The  OR field tests are partly based on OIL's past experiments as
well as a review by EOR consultants who participated in the project appraisal,
and the techniques to be tested appear to be the most viable. However, given
the heterogeneity of the oil and gas reservoirs, the eventual results obtained
can not be predicted with a high degree of confidence at this time and may
preclude field-wise application of the technqiues due to economic reasons.
This is the rationale for undertaking a pilot test rather than a full
commercial OR program at this time. To minimize the economic and physical
risks associated with the OR pilot tests, the design of the pilot tests will



- 41 -
be re',iewed by independent experts, and the results thoroughly evaluated
before recommending full-scale application.
(e) Effect of Low Oil Prices
4.44     A large enough fall in international oil prices would undermine the
viability of oil exploration and production in India in general, and
particularly of secondary and tertiary recovery programs, which result In
higher incremental costs of production than primary oil production. Analysis
of costs shows that the average economic cost of production under the
secondary recovery component is equivalent to about US$6.10/bbl., thus
international oil prices would have to fall to about this level before the
main component of the project ceased to be viable (para. 6.06). The economic
viability of various FOR techniques will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis
during the implementation of the pilot schemes, as described above (para.
4.43), and only those techniques which remain viable at lower oil prices will
be selected. The exploration program has been designed to minimize costs
(para. 4.40) and to maximize the probability of finding hydrocarbons. However
it is impossible at this stage, prior to a discovery, to determine the level
of prices which would be necessary for the new discoveries to be viable. (See
para. 6.08.)
3.       Reporting Requirements
4.45     It was agreed that OIL will submit to the Bank semi-monthly telex
reports on the progress and status of the exploration  ponent as well as
monthly physical p-rogress reports for the entire project-from OIL according to
agreed format and content.  The semi-monthly telex reports will be sent within
5 days after the end of the relevant period, and the monthly reports will be
submitted within 15 days after the reporting period. In addition, regular
financial reports will be submitted by OIL as discussed in para. 3.15. It was
also agreed that OIL will prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) within six
months after the loan closing date or the completion of loan disbursement.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.       Introduction
5.01     As mentioned in Chapter III, OIL is at a critical juncture in its
corporate history as it undergoes a transition from a small regional oil pro-
ducer to a more broader-based producer and as it increasingly relies on more
expensive secondary and tertiary recovery methods to produce oil from its
partially depleted oil fields. Thus, while it has managed In the past to keep
its investments to match its internal cash generation and be more or less
self-financing, it will over the next several years have to begin borrowing,
albeit moderate amounts initially, to help finance its growing Investment
program. OIL will also need to prepare itself financially to undertake major
investments not presently in the approved Seventh Plan in the event its
exploration efforts lead to a commercial discovery. OIL should have no
problem establishing itself as a borrower In the international financial
markets when the time comes for such borrowings. Furthermore, as OIL's
investment program increases as a percentage of its revenues, the accelerated



- 42 -
depreciation and amortization rates underr the income tax law will cause a
drastic understatement of its reported profitability. In a sense, OIL's
present financial challenges are somewhat the same as those faced by ONGC at
the start of the 1970s prior to the discovery of the Bombay High oilfield.
With the discovery of Bombay High, ONGC began to borrow from the international
market to help finance the Bombay High field development and since then, has
raised over US$1.5 billion dollars from foreign commercial sources to date.
5.02     As a state-owned enterprise, OIL is bound by the financial regu-
lations established by GOI. In particular, oil and gas prices are controlled,
and investment programs as well as external borrowings require approval from
the Government. Within this framework, OIL has performed in a financially
responsible manner. Its finances are dominated by the sale of crude which
accounted for some 90% of its sales revenues in FY85. OIL is in a sound
financial position and is expected to remain so in the future.
B.       Past Finances and Current Financial Position
5.03     OIL's income statements and balance sheets for the four year period
FYs 82-85 are set out in Annexes 5*03 and 5.04 and summarized as follows:
FY82     FY83     FY84     FY85
-----Audit
Sales Volume
Crude (million tons)                        2.80      2.81     2.73     2.63
Gas (MMCM)                                   596       599      608      636
Average Sales Price
Crude (Rs/ton)                             1,201    1,369    1,380    1,380
Gas (Rs/MCH)                                 231       231      235      225
Net Sales Revenues (million Rs)            3,063    3,117    3,039    3,050
Total Expenses                               801    1,091    1,563    1,802
Interest and Taxes                         1,504    1,371       767      566
Net Income                                   758      655       709      682
Net Fixed Assets in Operation                774      852    1,049    1,438
Current Assets                             1,295    1,486    1,853    1,965
Total Assets                               2,686    3,294    4,190    4,744
Long-term Liabilities                        447       512      598      527
Equity                                     1,464    2,084    2,935    3,575
Operating Ratio (X)                           26       36        52       62
% Return on Av. Assets in Operation a/        42        32       29       24
Debt/Equity Ratio                          23/77    20/80    17/83    13/87
Current Ratio (times)                        1.7      2.1       2.8      3.1
aI   Assets in operation include net fixed assets and current assets.



- 43 -
5.04     Over the past four years, OIL has been able to stabilize crude oil
production at 2.6 - 2.8 million tpy.  However, as the existing fields are
aging, increasingly higher costs have to be incurred to arrest the production
decline. OIL's reported cost increase has been further exacerbated by the
rapid depreciation/amortization of well expenditures (Annex 5.01), as re-
flected by the rapid rise of its operating ratio from 26% in FY82 to 62% in
FY85. On the other hand, the adverse impact on its net income has been
effectively moderated by a substantial reduction in income tax payments.
Hence, OIL's net income fell by only 10% from Rs 758 million in FY82 to
Rs 682 million in FY85. However, its return on operational assets experienced
a more rapid decline during the same period largely due to the need for sub-
stantial investments to arrest the normal decline in production. Neverthe-
less, OIL's profitability has remained satisfactory as indicated by a 241
return on average assets in operation during FY85. Further, OIL's financial
position has remained sound. Over the past four years, its current ratio has
been maintained above 1.5 times; its debt position has been kept low and by
end-FY85, its debt/equity ratio was 13/85.
c.       Future Finances
5.05     OIL is in a period of transition.  In an effort to achieve its ob-
jectives of avoiding a rapid decline in oil production from its existing
fields, as well as steadily increasing its reserve to production ratio over
the longer run, it has planned to step up investments in exploration and
production substantially over the forecast period FY86-94. A two pronged
approach has been adopted: (a) application of new techniques to improve
production from producing fields; and (b) expand exploration into new con-
cession areas. Given the fact that the natural decline of OIL's existing
fields has already set In, OIL's finances over the longer run will be
critically dependent on the success of its future investment program, of which
the proposed project represents the core investments planned for the period
lYs 88-94.
5.06     Financial projections for the nine-year period FYs 86-94 are set out
in Annexes 5.03 - 5.06; detailed assumptions are presented in Annex 5.02. Key
assumptions of the financial forecast include (i) the price of crude oil would
remain at present levels; a gas price adjustment Is currently under conside-
ration by the Government and the weighted average sales price is expected to
increase from Rs 230/NCM in FY86 to Rs 500/MCM thereafter; (ii) production
will be derived from known fields in Assam-Arunachal Pradesh only,
conservatively assuming no commercial development of discoveries (if any) from
exploration in other basins.
5.07     Salient features highlighting OIL's financial forecast are summarized
below.



- 44 -
FY86    FY88    FY90    FY92    FY94
Sales Volume
Crude (million tons)                       2.81    3.15    3.56    4.63    4.72
Gas (MHCM)                                  977    1109    1269    1269    1269
Average Sales Price
Crude (Re/ton)                            1,513   1,513   1,513   1,513   1,513
Gas (Rs/MCM)                                230     500     500     500      500
Net Sales Revenues (million Rs)           3,233   4,000   4,495   5,481   5,549
Total Expenses                            2,579   3,704   3,979   4,532   4,605
Interest and Taxes                          109     219     336     521      505
Net Income                                  545      77     180     428      439
Net Fixed Assets In Operation             1,848   2,362   2,487   2,369   2,299
Current Assets                            2,046   3,300   3,777   3,746   4,120
Total Assets                              5,304   6,450   7,357   7,639   8,058
Long-term Liabilities                       477   1,367   1,657   1,309   1,165
Equity                                    4,095   4,282   4,839   5,390   6,147
operating Ratio (X)                          80      94      92      85       85
I Return on Av. Assets in Operation          17       4       6      11       10
Debt/Equity Ratio                         10/90   24/76   26/74   20/80   16/84
Current ratio (times)                       2.8     4.4     4.4     4.0      5.5
D.       Revenue Position
5.08     As OIL steps up its investments, its statutary depreciation and
amortization practices (para. 3.13) would not only accelerate the increase of
its reported operating costs, but would also exacerbate fluctuations of its
estimated operating results for the outer years. Its operating ratio is esti-
mated to rise from 62% in FY85 to a range of 79S-94% during the forecast
period (1986-94). Even allowing for a partial offset of cost fluctuations
through income tax adjustment, OIL's net income during the same period could
range between RB 77 million and Rs 545 million; its annual return on opera-
tional assets could decrease from the present level of 24% to a range of 4%-
171 during the period FYs86-94. However, this is based on the conservative
assumption that OIL's exploration program will not lead to any commercial
discoveries which will contribute to profits.  Given that 27% of OIL's
exploratory wells (38% in terms of exploration costs) over the next five years
will be in the Assam area, which is relatively low risk because the explora-
tion is in an established producing basin, it is therefore very likely that
commercial discoveries will be realized and developed within the forecast
period; this would then improve OIL's profitability and return on assets, but
any estimate of the improvements at this time would be speculative and would
not add to the basic conclusion that OIL would have a satisfactory financial
position during the next five years or so even without any additional dis-
coveries as a source of revenue. In addition, if the companies Act would
permit more differentiation between depreciation policies for income tax and
for financial reporting purposes and if OIL changes its depreciation policy
for financial reporting purposes by increasing the amortization period closer
to the economic life of the assets, its reported annual return on assets
during the forecast period would also increase within the range of 10% to 20%



- 45 -
even without assuming any commercial discovery from its current exploration
effort. At any rate, OIL's cash flow situation is expected to remain sound.
5.09     It should be noted that some 20% - 60% of the projected operating
expenses are amortization of exploration expenses which are assumed not to
lead to commercial discoveries within the forecast period. Therefore, the
forecasts for the later years are very conservative and does not reflect the
potential contribution to revenues of the major exploration investments.
Detailed breakdown of OIL's production costs (excluding amortization of explo-
ration costs) is presented in Annex 5.06. Over the forecast period, its unit
cost of sales is estimated to range between Rs 508 - Re 808 per ton. This,
when compared with net sales price (excluding cess/royalty/sales tax) of
Rs 963 per ton, would allow OIL to maintain an adequate gross profit margin of
16% - 47%.
t.       Flow of Funds
5.10     During the forecast period FYs 86-94, Investments for production im-
provement and exploration would, respectively, represent some 61% and 20% of
OIL's total financing requirement of about Rs 32 billion. OIL's internal cash
retained (after dividend payments to the Government) is projected to cover
about 91% of the total financing needs. The balance (9%) is expected to be
met by long-term loans, including the proposed IBRD loan (7%). Debt service
is forecast to be covered comfortably by internal cash retained; debt service
coverage is projected to be maintained at over 6 times throughout the forecast
period. However, as noted above, the financial forecast is based on the
assumption that OIL's planned exploration efforts, would not have to be
Increased in the event of favorable results, and would also not lead to any
investments for development of any commercial discoveries. In the event OIL
Is to finance development investments relating to new discoveries, its
external borrowings could increase considerably from the present projected
level. However, internal cash generation is still expected to provide about
80% of any overall investment program that would liketly materialize.
Similarly, its debt service coverage could correspondingly decline during the
project construction period, but is expected to remain satisfactory.
F.       Financial Position
5.11     OIL's overall financial position is expected to be satisfactory
throughout the forecast period. Its debt position is projected to remain low,
and the debt/equity ratio is forecast to be maintained at no more than 26/74
in the next nine years. During the same period, its current ratio is esti-
mated at no less than 2 times.
G.       Financial Analysis of the Project
5.12     The financial internal rate of return (in real terms) for the
production improvement schemes and the associated gas re-injection component
together is estimated at 29% pretax and 171 after tax. This is based on the
conservative assumption that OIL's costs would escalate over the next seven
years, but that the price they are paid for oil produced remains fixed at its
current level (representing a 25% price drop in real terms over the-project''
period). If oil prices (and taxes and royalties) are assumed to escalate at



- 46 -
the same rate as OIL's input costs, the after-tax financial rate of return
would increase to 32%.
N.       Recommendations and Flnencial Covenants
5.13     With a view to ensure OtL's financial viability, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that (i) GOI will, from time to time, carry out a
review of the prices of crude oil and natural gas paid to OIL, and shall set
such prices at a 1e'-4 needed to enable OIL, under conditions of efficient
operation, to meet Its operating expenses &ld earn a sufficient return after
taxes on assets eployed in operation, meet its debt service requirements
maintain adequate workinc t and-finance a-substantial portion of its
proposed capital investmt; Ij d-WiY OIL Clwill submlt Snnually to GO0  an
analysis of its financia, sltuatto*'fAs a basis for setting OIL's selling
prices.  Such analysis wili inclide   Iater.alla, a financial evaluation of the
proposed project and of any subsequent coumercial-scale EOR investment or
other major development investment; this evaluation will indicate the level of
prices required for OIL to earn a discounted cashflow (DC?) return after taxes
of at least 15X on the project and on any related subsequent major develop-
ments.  Similar undertakings have been applied under the Bank loans to ONOC.
They have been complied with and led to the major revision of petroleum prices
in 1981 and 1982.
5.14     In addition, in order to promote prudent financial management,
assurances were obtalned sought from OIL that it would maintain (i) its
current ratio at no lees than 1.3 times; (ii) its debt/equity ratio at not
more than 60/40; ari` (tii) Gqs debt service coverage at not loes than
1.5 times6.
VI - PROJ8CT ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Benefits
6.01     The principal justification of the project is that it will result in
lncreased domestic production of crude oil In India, thus reducing the amount
of foreign exchange which must be spent on oil imports. Increased recovery
from existing fields will yield incremental production of some 20 million tons
of oil over the project life (estimated net present value of US$669 million),
by halting the decline of production at OQLts &.sas fields through the appli-
cation of production Improvezent schemes. In addition, the HOR pilots are
expected to lead to full scale use of NOR which would further increase total
production. Potential NOR benefits are not quantified for the purposes of
project appraisal since these are incorporated ouly on a pilot basis, and a.
full economic feasibility study on a fleld by field basis will be carried out
later to select the best NOR technique to be- used on a commercial scale. The
benefit of the natural gas component is the value of natural gas saved and
utilized which would otherwise have been flared -.estimated at about 146 MKCM
annually over the project life, with a total net present value of some
US$65 million. Taken In aggregate, the expectpd net-present-value of
additional oil production and gas utilization resulting from the project is
estimated at US$734 million, excluding the benefits of ZOR, or of any new oil
and gas found during exploration in Assam and Rajasthan. The benefits of the
exploration component are the net value of any addition to reserves expected



- 47 -
to result ktto tbf  exploration activity.  While it is impossible to quantify
these with any precision, initial estimates can be made on the basis of risk
analysis (see pMra 6.08).
6.02     In evaluating the project benefits, crude oil (of which India is
expected to .mmain a net importer for the foreseeable future), has been valued
on the basil of Bank's international price projections shown in Annex 6.01.
These prices- ate been adjusted for international ocean transport to India, as
well as for domestic  inland transport to refineries in eastern India, to
arrive at Ehe economic delivered cost of oil where the project's output will
be refined. To determine the economic value of the project's oil production
at the field site, the cost of evacuating the crude oil from Assam (where it
exists in surplus) to the refineries in eastern India has been deducted from
the economic cost of imported oil at these refineries. This exercise results
in average economic values for the project's oil output (at the field site) of
about US$15/Mbl,in the late 1980's, rising to about US$16/Bbl in 1990 and
s1abilizing -at About US$19/Bbl by 1995, in constant 1985 US dollars (details
Are provided fi Annex 6.02). Given the uncertainty regarding world oil
prices, the pw76ject hav also been evaluated assuming constant oil prices of
U8S$W and US$20 per barrel.
6.03    WXtural gas h¶e been valued using the thermal equivalence value of
fuel oil, -*iei  sas Its assumed to replace at the margin.  India will remain a
net importer of fIie' oil over the project period, so the c.i.f. price of fuel
-oil has been taken, with suitable adjustments for transport to the Assam
'* rket. This resFlts La an economic gas value of about US$90/MCM ($2.50/mcf)
'by 1990 -icorre.ponding 'to an international oil price of about US$15/Bbl, and
a delivoad fuel oil etst In Assam of about $100/ton.
^        1    troject Costs
*W104    Ox'Yo3ject capial ;osts have been calculated on the basis of constant
Xearl: 1906) prices nAtVbf duties and taxes, but allowing 101 for physical
* c,wrn±n cices.  0per4ts   costs for the production improvement schemes have
31en  41culeted4 , the basis of current incremental productions costs, which
are estimated at U*$ 14680 equivalent per ton of oil produced ($1.50/Bbl),
plus the direct additional costs of workover, injection, and infill dril-
l4ng. Operating czsts of the gas re-injection component have been estimated
on th basIs tO  actual compression service costs, plus 5% p.a. for operation
and  l1ten.nce (AnndXes 6.01, 6.02 and 6.03).  For the exploration components
Ityp4cg Azploratiom, appraisal, and development costs have been used as inputs
into"'te riLsk ana3iyss.
C. °   - ?Nect Economic Analysis
6.)05    The ne'tbenefits of all the production improvement schemes
X({injection, workover, and infill drilling) have been evaluated in aggregate,
by ~akng the value of incremental oil produced by year, net of capital and
op.*4vg costs for these components. The Incremental production was arrived
; '>at^* t 4aring projected production from each field with and without the pro-
Y-  .049d Ilxestments (Annex 4.03).  Similarly, net economic flows were calculated
f4r the gas reinjection component by valuing the additional gas not flared
*mh year at fuel oil replacement, as described in para. 6.03, net of invest-
meUt_## operating costs. Net present values were then calculated using a 101
,  .. \ . .. .. . "



- 48 -
discount rate. As mentioned earlier, no attempt was made to calculate NPV'e
or rates of return for the EOR pilot projects. Rather than forecast the net
return on exploration deterministicaly, a risk analysis has been undertaken to
Indicate the likelihood and range of commercial quantities of petroleum that
may be discovered.
(a) Production Improvement Schemes
6.06     The production improvement component yields an economic rate of
return of 94% and a net present value of US$669 million at the base level oil
price forecast, dropping to US$240 million (or a 58X ERR) if oil prices are
assumed to remain at $10/Bbl throughout the project life. The estimate of the
average present value cost of production is about $6.20/Bbl, thus
international oil prices would have to fall to this level and remain there
throughout the project life before this component ceased to be economically
viable. Similarly, incremental oil production would have to drop by more than
70% from the projected levels before the NPV becomes zero (i.e., ERR drops to
10%).
(b) Associated Gas Component
6.07     On the basis of the average expected volume of gas saved and utilized
as a result of re-injection, this component would yield net benefits of about
$11.5 million per year by the fourth year of the project, for a total net
present value of $65 million (ERR of about 47%). Even at an oil price of
$10/Bbl, the net present value would still be about US$24 million (ERR of
about 27%), and International oil prices would have to drop to about $5.60/Bbl
(equivalent to fuel oil price of about $40 per ton) throughout the project
life before investment in these facilities would cease to be economically
justified.
(c) Exploration
6.08     It is difficult at this early stage, in the absence of more detailed
geological information, to arrive at a reliable estimate of the expected
returns to the exploration component, especially since this is only the first
phase of exploration effort in the case of Rajasthan. As a first approxi-
mation a risk analysis has been performed using preliminary estimates of geo-
logical and reservoir characteristics to generate probability distributions
for the volume of hydrocarbon found, development costs, and corresponding
economic IRR's and NPV's, for the Rajasthan and Kumchai exploration
components. The initial risk-weighted estimate of the expected recoverable
gas reserves in the Ruschai area is 18.3 bcm (694 bef, equivalent to about
15 million tons of oil). Risk analysis indicates that there is a 25% chance
that the economic IRn for the Kumchai exploration component would fall below
13.4%, and that there is also a 25% chance that the IRR would exceed 34.4%;
the median IRn, based on 300 simulation runs, is about 28%. The mean NPV was
US$311 million. Assumptions underlying risk analysis of the Rajasthan
exploration component are still being refined. It is expected that risk
analysis would demonstrate that the intial 6 well program itself would show a
high probability of low rates of return, and great variability in the
distribution of IRR'e, given the large degree of uncertainty regarding geo-
logical reserves before any drilling has been undertaken. However, assuming
that all the hydrocarbon discovered will be gas, initial estimates of recover-



- 49 -
able gas in the three prospects to be drilled fall in the range of 2 bom (25%
chance) to 42 bem (5% chance) (i.e., 70 bef to 1.5 tef). The expected net
present value 1° such a commercial gas discovery would be at least about
US$20 millionJ_
(d) Other Benefits
6.09     The project will also yield other, unquantifiable benefits, largely
in the form of the strengthened institutional capabilities of Oil India
Limited, which will result from technical assistance and exposure to new
technologies under the project, as well as enhanced technical skills as a
result of the training component. In addition the increased R&D and seismic
capabilities will result in a more comprehensive geoscientific data base and
better quality pre-drilling analysis, and thus reduce the risk of drilling dry
holes, thereby reducing the average finding cost for new oil and gas.
VII* AGREMENTS REACHED AN) RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     The following agreements and assurances have been obtained from the
Government and OIL:
A.   From the Government that it will:
(a) periodically review the progress of the gas development and
utilization options study in Assam with the Bank during the
implementation of this project (para. 2.35 and 4.12);
(b) relend the Bank's funds to OIL on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.28);
(c) provide OIL or cause OIL to be provided with sufficient funds to
meet OILts financial requirements for the project (para. 4.29);
and
(d) from time to time, carry out a review of the prices of crude oil
and natural gas paid to OIL and shall set such prices at a level
that will enable OIL to meet its operating expenses and earn a
sufficient rate of return on its assets employed in operations,
meet its debt service requirements, maintain adequate working
capital, and finance a substantial portion of its proposed
capital investments (paras. 5.13).
1/       This assumes such a commercial discovery is developed over a 15 year
production horizon, with a conservative net value of $0.70/mef for
gas



- 50 -
B.   From OIL that it will:
(a) submit to the Bank not later than nine months after the end of
OIL's fiscal year, its audited accounts (para. 3.15);
(b) use specialized consultants as needed for exploratory drilling,
well completion, production testing and well logging service
under the project (para. 4.16);
(c)  periodically review the progress of the project with the Bank,
and with respect to the exploration components, agree on
suitable modifications on the basis of new information and
analysis acquired during project implementation. Also that OIL
will not proceed with any major modifications to the exploration
components without giving the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
comment on it (para 4.18);
(d) prior to drilling any exploratory well under the project, under-
take all the necessary pre-drilling studies and surveys using
the best data and methodology available and then prepare a
detailed drilling program, and well casing policy as well as a
preliminary completion program which will be reviewed with the
Bank, before implementation; with respect to in-fill and
development wells included in the project, OIL shall prepare for
each field a well casing policy and a completion program
including the type and quality of oil field materials required
(e.g. cement and mud) for the wells. OIL shall take into
account the Bank's comments on such policy and such program
prior to implementation; and if required, OIL shall engage
specialized consultants and contractor services during the
drilling of such wells under the project (para 4.21)
(e) continue to take precautions in line with industry practices to
protect its workers and the environment during the
implementation of the project and during operation of project
facilities (para. 4.38);
(f) submit to the Bank, semi-monthly telex reports on the progress
and status of the exploration component, as well as monthly
physical progress reports for the entire project according to an
agreed format and content; a Project Completion Report (PCR)
will also be submitted to the Bank within six monthe after the
loan closing date or the completion of loan disbursement (para
4.45);
(g)  will submit annually to the Government a report containing an
analysis of Its financial situation, including financial
evaluation of the entire project and of any subsequent
commercial scale NOR investments or other major developments;
this evaluation will indicate the level of prlces which would be
required by OIL to earn reasonable profits and returns on its
major investments (para. 5.13); and



- 51 -
(h) maintain its current ratio, debt/equity ratlo, and debt service
ratio at satisfactory levels (para. 5.14).
7.02     It was agreed with GOI and OIL that the execution of a subsidiary
loan agreement between GOI and OIL with terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness (par&. 4.28).
7.03     On the basis of the project justification and the agreements reached
with GOI and OIL, it is recommended that the Bank support the proposed project
with a loan of US$140 million to GO0 for a term of 20 years, Including a
five-year grace period.
Energy Department
February 1987



I
Ny
'1



.- 53 -
Annez 2.01
Pase 1 of 2
INDIA
Oil In3dra Projeet
Petroleum Sfector Data
Crude Oil and Petroleum Product Balances - Historical
(million mT.)
(Projected)
1970-71     1975-76     1980-81   1984-8S    1989-90    1994-95
Petroleum Product Demand           17.9        22.5         30.9      38.5      54.0         70.3
Domestic Crude Prod'n               6.8         8.5         10.5      29.0     34.0          n/a
Crude Imports a/                   11.7        13.6         16.3       7.2      14.0         n/a
Refinery Output                    17.1        20.8         24.1      33.2     48.0          58.0
Petroleum Product Imports (Yet)    0.8          2.1          7.3       5.1      6.0          12.3
_/ Total do not add due to process losses, changes in stocks, and re-exports.



- 54 -
AnneX 2*01
Peso 2 of 2
nDIA
OIL INDA  CPU CT
PITROLSUM SICTOR DATA
Volume and Costs-o_f IDorts
1970-71   1975-76   1980-81   1982-83   1983-84   1984-85
Crude Oil Consumption (million wT.)       18.4      22*3      25.8       33*2      3S.3       35.6
Crude Oil Production (million mT.)        6.8        8.S      10.5       21.1      26.0       29.0
Not Crude Imports (million ST.)           11.7      13.6       16.3      12.4      10.4        7.2
Value of Csude Imports ($b.)              0.1        1.1       3.3        3.0       2.1        1.6
Net Product Imports (million aT.)         0.8        2.1       7.3        4.2       2.9        5.1
value of product Imports ($b.)                       0.2       1.9        1.4       o.8        1.4
Total Cost of Imports ($ billions)        0.1        1.3       5.2        4.4       2.9        3.0



55 -
AWEX 2.02
INDI A
OIL INDIA PJCT
cr* Of I Productlan by A,m
(ofi lit UT)
(forecast)
19f701 1j7576  j980j81  1982-83  1445    tl)
Asa..- OIL                    3.2      3.2     1.3      2.8      2.7       3.3
-01400                  0.2      1.1      0.4      2.2      2.2       4,1
OluJart                       3.5      4.1     3,8      3.2      3.9       6.0
Bamby High                     -       -       5.0    12.9    20.1        20.6
Krlshnaodi                     -       - -      -                 -        0.6
Sub-Total (Existing Fields)   68      6.4      10.5    21.1     29.0      35.0
PsIbbe #W Fields               -       -        -        -        -        5.6
TOTAL                         6.8      8.4     10.5    21,1    29.0       40.6



- 56 -
ANNEX 2.03
INDIA
OIL INDIA PROJECT
Petroleum Product Supply/Demand alatnce - Historical
(milIlon mT)
19tO-71                   1980-81
Production  Consumption   Production  Consumption   Productlon  Consumption
Light Distlilates
LPG                0.2          0.2         0.4           0.4         0.6            '.0
GasolIne           1.S          1.5         1.5           1.5         2.1            2.1
Naphtha            1.2          0 9         2.1           2.4         3.5            3.1
Total                 3.0          2.7         4.1           4.4         6.3           6.3
Middle Distlilates
Kerosone           2.9          3.3         2.4           4.2         3.3           6.1
Avtur/Gas          0.7          0.7         too           1.1         1.3            1.3
HSD                3.8          3.8         7.4          10.4         11.1          13.6
LCD                1.0          !.1         1.1           1.1        _L;_            1.2
Total  /              8.6          9.0        12.1          17.1         17.2         22.3
Havy Ends
Fuel Oils9         4.1          4.7         6.1           7.5         7.9           ?.8
Others      1|       3          1.5         1.8           2.0         1.8           2.1
Total                 5.5          6.2         7.9           9.5         9.7           9.9
TOTAL                   l7.l         17.9        24.1          30.9        33.2           38.5
NOTES: Totals may not add duo to rounding
a/ Sub-total IncIudes miscellaneous other middle dIstilIItes



- 57, -
ANNEX 2.04
INDIA 
OlL INDIA PROJECT
Natural Gas Production and Use by Region
(CMOC)
(Forecast)
1970-71   1975-76   1980-8;   '982-83   ,99s-a6   (1989-90)
Gas Produced
Assam            2.7        4.4       2.3        5.0        5.6        5.7
Gujarat           1.3       2.1        2.3       2.1       2.5         3.0
Bmbay High         -         -         1.8       6.5       14.2       11.1
South Bassein      -         -          -         -          -        22.0
TOTAL         4.0        6.5       6.4       13.6      22.3        39,8
Gas Consumed
Assam             1.0       1.8        1.6       2.7       3.2         n/a
Gujarat          0.9        1.7        1.9       1.8       2.2         n/a
Bmbay High         -         -        0.8        3.0       8,4         n/a
TOTAL         1.9        3.5       4.3        7.5      13.8         n/a
Balance Flared
Assam             1.7       2.6       0.7        2.3       2.4         n/a
Gujorat          0.4        0.4       0.4        0.3       0.3         n/a
Eombay High       _          -         1.0       3.5       5.8         n/a
TOTAL         2.1        3.0       2.1        6.1       8.5         n/a



- 58 -
ANNEX 3.01
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
OIL INDIA UMITED
Organization Chart
(Corporate Headquarters In New Delhi)
Chairfma
Director                         Director           Director
(Finance)                       bq. & Des.         (OPeralns)
Finarnlobl                                                 Senior Technical
Advber                                                        Adviser
__                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
Techncoll
Adviw
Adviser             Adviserdvi
Srategic            srtaystrtoilc & Cor.                   seirGTch
Rekation             Planning                                 t hnlAdi
IGeo-Techn;l
I Advisers 
ReoVy Dep1W Bment
FebfU   1987                                                                      World 8on$k-30899:1



-59                 AN  3.01
Page 2 of 3
eI                I
g2#o1~~~~ - -a,iII
IIii



tNDIA
OIL INDIA PEIROLEUM PROJECT
Organizofton Chart
(Rajhastan Dlvision)
Seir    senior   Eni er         Snor   EnierSenfor Acofseirkx
Ewsenir rlmC
PetIwor1 u67                      WGlmd I rEm                                Che*_   9.
SsnmW                  'Sesp*                                                      Acow                Sfx
Wao
0'



-: ' :) t '.~~~~~~~~AM                                        4.01
-i 6]. -Page 1 of 14
i       -'w1'' '                      INDIA
K, /"  *   , OIL INDIA PETLUM  PRECT
i' LO' AND 'DROCARBON RESOURCB POTENTIAL
>kJ4w~EAL XAHANADI BASI! (OPPsORE) AND ASh!
*2I . RtAJASTUAN 
.
4,     A.  General Geology
J
- t xt.''    *  tentry area in Rajasthan comprises an area of 4bout
l.V.'tOOO km .  It is situated on the eastern shelf of the Indus
w    (Nap IBRD 19889) within the general geologic province which
jk' inudes the Zin,' Ucht Nari, thandkot and Sui gas fields in
'  astan.  The area within India can be subdivided into four main
"' bWas  'elements. From north to south these aret
l   4   the Bikan2r-Nagaur Basin, which covers an area of about
36,000 kmz and was formed during the Pro-cambrian to
Paleozoic period and is essentially a predecessor basin
covered by thin Indus shelf sediments.  Structurally, it is
bounded in the south and southwest by the  'okhran-Nachna
Uplift, in the east by the Aravalli mountains, and in the
north by the Delhi-Sargodha Ridge;
_t. he Barmer Basin, which is a southeastern embayment of the
Indus Basin with very'little structuring evident.  It
,ontains a sedimentary sequence of Middle Jurassic to
tower Eocene aged rocks deposited under a shallow marine to
"  fluvial environment with numerous possibilities for
'' tratigraphic traps;
cy 'the Jaisalmer siructural belt, which occuplies an area of
imb,t 30,000 km and represents a major wrench fault system
'  the westerly-dipping eastern flank of the Indus shelft
,'v'  riented normal to regional dip.  This belt is bounded on the
,*ortheast by the Ramgarh fault, which separates it from the
'\ < ' , ! 2 stBartaner embaymnt I
d,,, tthe Sanchor Basin, which geologically can be considered as
ba.thenorthern continuation of the Cambay Basin (and possibly
t'  southeast extension of the Jaisalmer trend), has a
sedimentary sequence ranging in age from the
Jurasitc-Lower Cretaceous to the Quaternary, with intervening
l3ecan trap of Upper Cretaceous-Lower Tertiary age.  The
sedimentary sequence consists mainly of fluviatile deposits.
,3''  -  ,. 
2  .,  ,' ,      .    



- 62 -
AUNOK 4.01
Page 2 of 14
2.   Ths Basin's lithologic sequence is shown in the attached
otratigraphic table, and consists of rock units from early
Proterosoic to recent age. The rock units of sigificancet with
respect to hydrocarbon potential, are the Lahti and Jaislmer
formtions of Upper Jurassic and Lower Cretaceous age,
consisting mainly of sandstones and shales overlain by a
prominent extensive marine limestone marker bed; the
fossiliferous Coru sandstones of Cretaceous age, dwpoited in a
marine environment and the Parh and Sanu mixed carbonate and
elastic formations of the Upper Paleocene and Lower locene ages,
also deposited under a marine environment.
3.   OIL's Rajasthan PEL area is about 18,720 km2 in the state of
Rajasthan, it is bounded in the southwest by the ONGC PEL area,
it contains a part of the Jaialmer structural belt and the
adjacent Barmer embayment in the southwest a4d the Bikaner-
Nagaur Basin in the northeast. During the history of the
geologic evolution of the Rajasthan area from Uppar Proterosoic
to Quaternary period, about seven distinct sedimentary sequences
and siz regional unconformities which are identifiable could be
associated with repeated transgression and regression of the
sea, and repeated tilting and uplifting of the Basin. Overall,
sedimentary thickness is about 7000 m in the deepest part of the
basin along the Pakistan border. The only previous exploration
under the Rajasthan license was a reconnaissance ground mapnetic
and gravity survey. No seismic surveys or drilling had been
carried out prior to OIL's acquisition of the license in
November 1961 after the area bad been prooted to the IOSC  In
1980 and there was no interest shown by the IOCs for the area.
3NCC has, however, drilled several exploratory wells on their
license imediately to and southwest of OIL's license, four of
which have good gas shows, including two gas discoveries on the
Chotaru and Manherra Tibba structures. These discoveries,
although not fully appraised, are estimated to contain narly
100 BCG gas reserves in-place with varying but significant inert
fractions. Hydrocarbon shows in the ONC wells are primarily in
the Eocene carbonate interval, similar to the giant ari field,
40 km to the west in Pakistan. However, gas shows have also
been noted in Cretaceous-age sandstones, and oil shows in
Jurassic carbonates. Pre-drilling exploration activities in the
Rajasthan area began in 1984 and are still going on, with the
acquisition of 7,200 km of seismic data, using two CGG-
contracted vibroseis crews. This initial program is expected to
be completed later in 1986 and includes processing and
interpretation of the data in Jodhpur, where there are
processing facilities, using CCC-contracted services.  The area
of initial concentration was the southwest portion of the PEL
area, adjacent to the OGC licenses, where the seismic grid was
about 1 x 1.5 km in many places. gven though covered by sand
dunes, the data is of good quality and represents about 5Z of
the total license area. The bulk of the remaining area is being
covered on a 5 x 5 km reconnaissance grid as part of the initial
program.



- 63 -
ANNBX 4.01
Page 3 of 14
B.  Hydrocarbon Potential
4.   Data acquisition and interpretation are still in progress, and
given the large area of the license and the restricted coverage
to date, it is impossible to quantify, at this otage, the type
and number of structures and plays that could be developed.
However, the area could be subdivided into two parts for making
preliminary evaluation of the hydrocarbon potential. These ares
a.   the southwest half that borders with Pakistan and is the
area where most of the seismic survey has been done to
date. In this area, the identified possible geologic plays
consist of Tertiary, Mesozoic and Paleosoic structural and
stratigraphic plays. The total sedimentary thickness is in
excess of 6,000 m, of which the Tertiary and Mesozoic
sequence is more than 4,000 a in thickness;
b.   the northeast half of the license, which contains mostly
Paleozoic sediments and gravity and magnetic coverage in
this area indicate horst (high fault block) and graben (low
fault block) structures with a distinct possibility of salt
structures (salt flowage) in the grabens (as indicated by
high amplitude circular and/or oval gravity minima).
Paleozoic thickness, particularly in the graben, is
expected to reach or exceed 3,000 m. The overlying
Mesozoic and Tertiary Indus Basin sediments are thin in the
northeast portion of the license.
5.   As mentioned above, OIL concentrated seismic acquisition in the
southwestern edge of the block near the OCC discoveries, which
are located on the Mari-Jaisalmer structural belt. The
structured zone consists of a series of northwest-southeast
trending faults which appear to be generally left lateral
strike-slip or wrench faults. In the area of concentrated
seismic coverage, these faults are basically in a tensional
phase and what little compression (folding) occurs appears to be
on the adjacent ONCC block. These fault axes are normal to the
regional dip and thus the tensional features, usually appearing
as drag folds on the down-thrown side of the faults, have little
area of closure and only limited contra-regional reversal of
dip. Based on the amount of data, some three drillable
prospects in the structural belt have been selected out of a
large group of potential prospects based on the clarity of
definition, their structural setting being at least partially
independent of fault closure, and the fact that most of the
objective section could be penetrated at optimnm depths
sequentially in the several prospects. The structural setting
of these, which have been referred to herein as South, Central
and North, is as follows:
A.   South Prospect (Prospect P) - is a closure independent of
faulting on the west and down-thrown side of the Ramgarh
fault (left lateral wrench fault bounding the Mari-
Jaisalmer structural belt on the northeast). The major



- 64 -
AMN= 4.01
Page 4 of 14
objectives are L. Cretaceous Pariwar sands, fractured
Jurassic Jaisalmer limestone underlying Jurassic Lahti
sands, and pre-Lahti Paleozoic. Area of closure is
15+W1m.  The proposed well depth is 5,500 a.
b.   Central Prospect (Prospect C) - is a high aide fault
closure against an ant thetic fault associated with the
major Eamgarh system. The major objectives are
L. Cretaceous Pariwar and Jurassic Jaisalmer limestone
and Lahti sandstone. The area of closure is about 7km2 and
the proposed well depth is 4,500 m.
c. North Prospect (no letter designation) - is on a horst
block between two converging faults with highest point
being at fault convergence within the overall horst and
graben system associated within the Mari-Jaisalmer
structured belt. The principal objectives are
Socene carbonates, Upper Cretaceous Goru sandstone, and
L. Cretaceous Pariwar sandstone with Jurassic Jaisalmor
limestone and Lahti sand1tone as secondary deep targets.
Area of closure is 17+km ', extending nearly to the Pakistan
border, and the proposed well depth is 4,500 m.
6.   Besides these, however, there are possible prospects (for which
more detailed interpretation is required) which would include
Tertiary/Mesozoic structures along the Mari-Jaisalmer structural
belt southeast of the current area of seismic concentration, as
more of this belt is included in the OIL license. Sven further
to the southeast, along the structural belt, Paleozoic prospects
may be found at a drillable depth. Numerous stratigraphic trap
possibilities are also possible in the Barmer embayment as the
Tertiary/Mesozoic interval thins rapidly to both the southeast
and northeast. Fault margins and related structures are also
possible in these directions. Sub-unconformity Paleozoic
prospects may also be present near the margin of the basin where
overlain by Tertiary and Mesozoic sections. In the northeast
half of the block (Bikner Basin), a wide variety of Paleozoic
plays are possible either associated with compressional
structures, fault block closures, salt movement, or
stratigraphic. Some very large, low amplitude structures are
indicated in regional seismic data obtained to date. It is
significant that Paleozoic production has been established in
similar sequences in the Potwar Basin of Pakistan. In addition,
occasional lower Mesosoic/Paleozoic hydrocarbon shows have been
identified south of the Potwar area, including two recent gas
discoveries in Pakistan (Panjpir and Nandpur) which are believed
to be related to structural closure induced by up-dip withdrawal
(or solution) of Paleozoic salt. Although it seems that the
prospects along the Mari-Jaisalmer structured belt near the
Pakistan border have, after close-spaced good quality seismic,
proved to be smaller and fewer than anticipated, a number of
play possibilities may be realistically expected in other
portions of the license.



- 65 -
AMNEX 4.01
Page 5-of 14
7.   In making an evaluation of the hydrocarbon potential of the
southwestern-part of the Rajasthan license area, the following
considerations are relevant:
(a) ONC, a short distance to the west has been exploring the
southwest portion of the Mari-Jaisalmer structural belt in
sporadic fashion for the past 20 years and have made two
discoveries out of 14 exploratory wells drilled, or a
success rate of 1/7; however, ONGC has not utilized high
quality seismict
(b) the ONCC discoveries of Nanherra Tibba and Chotaru found
the Socene and Paleocens limestones gas productive
(Manherra Tibba) and the Eocene limestone, L. Cretaceous
Coru sandstone and the L. Cretaceous Pariwar sandstones gas
productive (Chotaru); in addition, oil shows were
encountered in several wells in fractured Jurassic
Jaisalmer limestone; also in the general area, the large
Nari field in Pakistan produces gas from Bocene limestone
and, farther away in the Nandpur-Panjpir complex in
Pakistan, gas is produced from the Permo-Triassic Karampur
sandstones believed to be present on the OIL prospects (the
Jurassic Datta sandstones productive of oil in the Toot
field in Pakistan's Potwar sub-basin are believed to be the
equivalent of the Lahti sandstones expected on the OIL
prospects); and the L. Cretaceous Coru sandstones are
productive of oil in the Union Texas/OXY Badin block and
the OCDC Tando Alam field located to the west-southwest in
Pakistan;
(c) in all gas fields mentioned above, inert gas (principally
002 and N2) is a common constituent and ranges from 35-95S
of the total gas; there is no ready explanation for this
phenomenon;
(d) fair-to-good potential source rocks are either identified
or suspected in the Eocene shales (interbedded with the
limestone), the L. Cretaceous Parh shale (overlying Coru
sandstone), the L. Cretaceous/Jurassic Bedesir/Baisakhi
shales (between Pariwar sands and Jaisalmer limestone), and
the Jurassic Lahti shales down dip and interbedded with
Lahti sands; and
(e) structures identified to date are quite small and often not
structurally closed, since structured belt strikes normal
to regional westward dip into-the deeper part of the Indus
Basin (note - if the structured belt and associated faults
had been parallel to subparallel to regional dip, excellent
large structures would have been developed).
8. Bank staff appraisal estimates of the expected sizes for the
three prospects range from 100 Bcf to 300 Bcf of recoverable
hydrocarbon gas, with 2-10 MM bbl of associated liquids
(assuming an average of 501 inert gas and about 10X of potential



- 66 -
AMfX 4.01
Page 6 of 14
reservoirs in a multi-layered, multi-formation objective sone
hydrocarbon bearing). These expected field sizes are relatively
small considering the structural complexities and geologic risk
involved. However, the three proposed prospects should provide
a good initial evaluation of OIL's portion of the M4ai-Jaialwr
structural play, particularly since seismic definition is quite
good.
9.   With respect to the northeast half of the license area, in the
Bikaner Basin prospect (only a lead at this time), there appears
to be a large low relief anticline best developed in the
Cambrian/Pre-Cambrian sedimentary interval just above
basemqRt. Area of closure is intdicated to be in excess of
100 km' with a maximum of 250 m of vertical relief. The
objective interval would be pre-Cambrian to L. Paleosoic
limestone and/or sandstone beneath an extensive evaporite
layer.  Both source rock and reservoir rock are unknown-and
carry a high risk of adequate development. However, if both
reservoir and source do exist to a sufficient degree, the
potential field sizes in this basin could be very large and
perhaps as likely to be oil as well as gas. Potential of
reserves exceeding 1 Tcf of gas and/or 200 MN bbl., or in some
combination of these are possible, particularly considering the
evaporite seal. Currently estimated drill depth of this
prospect (or others like it) is 2,500 m with objectives as
shallow as 1,200 u, an optimum maturation depth for the
Lower Paleo&oic. In addition, a number of stratigraphic trap
possibilities have been observed on seismic in the Barmer
embayment Most likely these will either be lenticular sand
bodies or sub-conformity traps. The objective will be to find a
trap that is large enough for initial phase exploration. It
should be noted that in analogous basins in other arsas in the
world, the stratigraphic traps on the unstructured flank are a
common habitat of gas and oil fields, mostly of small to medium
size, with the rare giant field possible. In this project,
*             although OIL originally intended to drill 20 wells in the
Rajasthan area, only five wells will be supported by the Bank,
consisting of three wells in the southwest portion of the PBL
Jaisalmer structural belt, one well in the Bikaner Basin area,
and one well to test the best of the potential stratigraphic
prospects in the Barmer embayment. These will be selected after
the completion of an additional 3,000 km of seismic, to be
supported under this project.



De
In h1at1, bda v
1nmst1on         Now I IositIi       1ikm VThwfroinnwt of 1Mit n
of 9~it-c          (Ap.v)
ND*IMYO)        AferMaUit
bast              AUnvi  +                             2D - 39D           Rtver aludim, doe sad, frrcst  P&My   )bmrhu
Sub-nwemt to   a      re    1Umwta
ILde Ron          ta        B          H- I            10 - l9                    fmbfoi 6     iestme, arg llcts   IbOle
at lb3s.
ler Bam,.   ~         1Rhdda           H - 2           90 - 270            Clay wth dforinfea *        lIunta.         Morhle                             a
vow Paleomm    sm                                      45 - 22D           kgillalam  asetom wdth gloawontic             addsh to dWd mrl-
l e*itom ad cdara   edlty clgy.
Upper (etams   Park                                    10 - 360           Prdmztly iw1s, eabates& claotc               Karim
Lomen/UAper       Q.ru                 R - 3           2DO - 5X0           PoSilifeca   sm n ta                        swliw aurhm
Cketsom
tow Oketamwu    Parli                  R-4             20D - 650           Sshatle odltow barlwm, btwi
conditiai at b.ese
omrrA  at top.
vower Jumaic to t Bsf                  H - 5           30D - 50D          Shae & sad.tom
1Ue  Jrsisaic    Jaiaemr               R -6            2 - 125S           Liaston & ostam                              Naita
lImr to Md- 60Dto                                      100 - 60            hIny A lI:   with f*l mwod                  QatiAital to deltai/
Jurassic                               R-7                                                                                 dmlou mba                      '
1w-Triastc  d ulriU                                    0- 2400 (SW    ad sadst. uderlain by bomIl  bed                 QatiXti  to shauv larimw
%sopr R-8
Lamn         ?)    Riia-                               0- I000D *          Smst4a. thin dales (?), I _t a                C     l,  ftltle ad
1tida e*dvolen.9                                                                                                  shallw ins H(t
kdi Fummel Basast                                                         ?htrwAiIc + insods
*    Tatiw   dmeas after  s-I  Inteprettias.
y wm: au 0±Iia td. (1966)



- 68 -
ANNEX 4.01
Page 8 of 14
II. The North East Coast (NEC)
A.   Introduction
1.  OIL acquired its initial petroleum exploration license in the
Northeast Coast (NEC) area in 1978 consisting of the 12,000
sq.km Mahanadi offshore license. In 1980, the 8,560 sq.km
Mahanadi onshore license was received and in 1983 a 28,800 sq.km
NEC offshore license adjacent to the Mahanadi offshore was
granted. Initial exploration consisted of 3178 line km and two
exploratory wells on the offshore Mahanadi block.  The data was
then reviewed and 5 additional wells drilled. Minor shows were
recorded in 2 of the 7 wells drilled, Mhanadi-2 and
Mahanadi 6. Some 3800 line km of seismic were surveyed on the
onshore Nahanadi block but no drilling has taken place to date.
2.   A portion of the NEC license had previously been held by the
NatomasCarlsberg group who conducted a 6000 line km seismic
survey and drilled two wells. One of these BB-A-IR encountered
numerous gas shows, more than 100 m gross, in lower Pliocene.
Several Miocene sand units were confirmed by wireline tests
above the onset of abnormal pressure at around 3100m (numerous
shows were also encounted below the top of abnormal pressure but
these are of lesser importance).  The other well, BB-B-1, en-
countered little potential reservoir rock units in the objective
section and no hydrocarbon shows even through abnormal pressure
was encounted until approximately 3500m depth. OIL, for their
part, conducted a 4450 line km seismic survey (not including the
former Natomes-Carlsberg license) and is currently active on
their 2nd well in the license. The initial well, NEC-1 was
drilled to a depth of 5205m and tested one good show in the
interval 4498-4504, quite extensively. Production could not be
established and the well was abandoned. The 2nd wells, NC-2, is
currently active at a depth of about 2200m.
B.   Geology and Petroleum Plays
3.   The Mahanadi Basin is comprised of two geologic sequences:  (a)
the fault blocks associated with the breakup of the Gondwana-
land, and (b) the overlying Upper Cretaceous/Tertiary passive
margin sediments. The lithologic sequences within the Basin
range from a pre-Cambrian basement made of granitiferous
gneisses and schists, overlain by pre-breakup Gondwana sediments
(Carboniferous-Lower Cretaceous) and by Upper Cretaceous and
Tertiary prograding margin sediments. These are separated by a
series of unconformtities. The NBC license, offshore Orissa
state, lies on the western flank of the Bengal Basin and
contains four geologic provinces: (1) the Miocene/Pliocene
delta (proto-Bengal and Bengal delta seidments); (2) the Eocene
carbonate bank; (3) post bank Eocene/Miocene shelf; and (4)
Balasore graben system (probably an upward continuation of
breakup structure).



- 69 -
AMNEX 4.01
Page 9 of 14
4.   The kio/Pliocene delta is the most seaward of these and is
controlled by a N/S trending gravity fault system occurring at
the edge of the underlying Eocene carbonate bank. The delta
sequence is typical in that structure is abundant with complez
faulting and typical erratic deltaic distribution of reservoir
beds. The initial well by Natomas-Carlsberg appears to have
been a gas discovery and in this geologic environment more gas
than oil is likely to be found. A complete re-work of the old
seismic data, now high resolution seismict and a number of
exploratory wells will be required to evaluate the delta play.
S.   The Eocene carbonate bank at the seaward edge of the Eocene
carbonate shelf holds promise for hydrocarbon accumulation and
is an important trend to explore all along the east cost of
India and into onshore West Bengal and Bangladesh. Carbonate
build-ups (sedimentary features resulting in low amplitude
highs) are the principal targets, however up-dip pinchouts of
porous limestone reservoirs is likely to be importat as well.
This trend is also difficult to explore in thats (a) trap
closures associated with paleo carbonate mounds have been tilted
basinward during subsequent deposition and remaining closures
are subtle or expressed only as structural noses; (b) the
carbonate bank edge is subject to rapid facies change which when
coupled with the basinward tilt make all prospects stratigraphic
traps which are difficult to discern by seismic or other in-
direct means; and (c) the target zone is 7-10 km in width. At
least 4 wells drilled to date, i.e. MND-2, MND-5, MND-6 and NEC-
1, attempted to evaluate the Bocene carbonate bank play. All
except MND-6 tested low relief features which due to tilt were
in the shoreward or "back reef" facies of the bank. Two of
these had minor shows, i.e. HND-2 and NEC-I, but reservoir
development was poor. The MND-6 was drilled in the seaward or
"fore reef" facies and encountered an abundance of reservoir
section with good porosity. However, in this well porosity was
so good that extensive lost circulation problems prevented
adequate evaluation. Under proper circumstances wells drilled
at the up-dip margin of the "fore reef" porous facies would have
the best chtace to be hydrocarbon bearing. Obviously the search
is elusive. A dense grid of seismic data, detailed analyses of
the prospective interval of all geologic movements since the
time of deposition will be required to delineate the most
attractive prospects. Also, a large number of wells may be
required to evaluate this play without guarantee of ultimate
success.
6.   The Eocene/Miocene shelf area is also the locale for
stratigraphic traps such as sand lenses and carbonate mounds,
i.e. patch reefs". Traps are most likely quite small with
subtle expression, shallow depth and gas prone. To date 4 wells
have been drilled in the area, MND-1, MND-3, MKD-4 and MND-7,
and one NEC-2 is currently drilling. Most encountered minor gas
shows in the Niocene sands. The NEC-2 is designed to test an
interpreted Nio/80cene "patch reef". This play is slightly more
targetable than the Rocene carbonate bank edge but should be



-70 -
AM=  4.01
Page 10 of 14
considered low priority since economic discoveries are likely to
be rare, i.e. smll, shallow gas.  However because at least
something can be sapped on seismic the locations curretly
rel"sed by OIL maagemt for subsequent drilling are in this
domain.
7. The Balasore graben occurs in Balasore Bay and is a contiauation
of an onshore graben system. The shallow Tertiary age plays,
Niocene and locene, are similar to the shelf plays except that
structural closures along the seaward graben fault (high side
fault closures) provide for larger and more discernible traps.
In addition, the pre-Tertiary section represents a possibility
as well. As presently known, the pre-Tertiary geology is
complex and not well understood. This section is complicated by
extrusive flows of the Decan trap sories and shallow intrusive
igneous rocks. A number of structural closures have bene mapped
and although expectations for significant petroleum
accumulations are not high, the Balasore graben area could
warrant 3-4 exploratory wells to evaluate, if the preceding on-
shore program is somewhat encouraging. If drilled, these should
be selected to test differeat types of prospects and different
objective formations.
C.   Hydrocarbon Potential
8.   During the current phase of exploration, OIL plani to drill
6 wells on the NEC block in addition to the previously drilled
URC-1 (formerly designated as MND-8). OIL also plans an
extensive additional seismic survey of some 5,000 line km,
apparently after completion of the current drilling phase. The
current drilling plan, i.e. EEC-2 plus S additional wells, is
expected to be divided between the 8ocene carbonate bank, the
locene/Kiocene shelf and the Balasore graben area, two wells
each. At present, no activity other than seismic is
contemplated for the Plio/Niocene delta area which is being
offered to industry in the Third Round.
9. Although there are many potential prospects in each qf these
geologic plays, they are apt to be small in size and are not
well defined with the currently available seismic data. As a
result, in this project the Bank has recommended to OIL that the
old Natomas-Carlsberg data be reprocessed and, in addition,
about 5,000 km of high resolution seismic be done over the
locene carbonate bank are to better delinate the prospects.
Based on the results of the EEC-i well, the most likely
expectation of recoverable reserves in the carbonate bank area
is about 5 BCF of gas/km of reservoir area, and/or about
500,000 barrels of oil/km2. It should, however be noted that
only the carbonate bank and the overlying shelf sediments have
been cursorily tested by OIL to date. If the industry does not
take up the UEC block offered covering the Miocene/Pliocene
delta play, OIL should consider upgrading the area to first
priority. Gas has already been discovered and oil discoveries
are at least possible. Re-processed and/or new seismic data



- 71 -
ANNEX 4.01
Page 11 of 14
should delineate drillable prospects of high priority, since
even if the area proves to be gas prone (the most likely reson
for lack of industry interest), its shallow water depth,
moderate drilling depth, and proximity to potential gas markets
in Calcutta and the West Bongal/Bihar Industrial States should
be economically attractive to the nation. Therefore, given this
added potential, the Bank proposed to support at least 2
exploratory wells (with the Nio/Pliocene delta prospects given
priority if they become available) in addition to the seismic
mentioned above.
III. Assam Basin
A. Introduction
1.   Oil India Ltd. (OIL) began its operations in the Assam Basin and
its operations were restricted to this area until 1978, when the
first exploration licenses outside Assam were granted, in the
northeast coastal area (Mahanadi offshore license). OIL was
developed from its predecessor company, Burmah Oil (a private,
U.K.-based concern). Burmah was the sole operator in northeast
Assam State until 1959, when the name was changed to Assam Oil
Co., with the Government of India (001) taking a one-third
share. Two years later, the name was again changed to Oil India
Ltd., and the Governenat share was increared to 50S. At that
time, however, the Digboi and Digboi-east fields remained with
Assam Oil at the one-third Goveronmet share. Note that Digboi
was the first discovery in India (1890) and was considered
narly depleted by the time OIL took it over for further
development. In 1981, the Government purchased Burmah's 501
(and the 2/3 share in the Digboi fields as well) and OIL became
a 1001 Indian Government company. OIL's total exploration
license area in Assam and Arunachal Pradesh is about 3,200 Km2.
2,  The Assam Basin is the most prolific onshore basin in India.  To
date, some 171 KM mP (1100 MM bbls) of oil and 126.2 B m
(4.45 Tcf) of estimated recoverable hydrocarbons have been found
by OIL. In addition, ONGC, who operates in Asiam southwest of
OIL, has discovered a substantial but somewhat lesser amount.
Present reserves of proved and probable recoverablj oil ad  gas
(OIL only) are estimated at 43.9 MM me (276 M1 bb  ), and
68.5 Be (2.42 Tef). Production levels are currently at a
plateau rate for both oil and gas at agme 2.8 14 t/year
(21.9 MN bbl or 60 M b/d) and 1.60   ml/year (58.6 8cf or
160 Mcf/d).
3. The discovery rate by OIL and predecessors has been very
erratic. Some 67S of the oil and 481 of the gas were found pre-
1959 while Burmah held sole interest. These discoveries were
made in 1890 and the period 1949-56. Approximately 211 of the
oil and 481 of the gas was found during the joint venture
period, primarily between 1967-73 and the remaining 12X of the
oil and 41 of the gas has been found during the time of 1OOZ
Government ownership, the bulk in 1985 alone. There are several



- 72 -
ANNEM 4.01
Page 12 of 14
reasons for the highly periodic natuie of discovery. These
relate to availability of technology (principally seismic), and
adequate technical expertise. In the past several years, OIL
has either received, or has under application, exploration
licenses on previously relinquished land, as well as new areas
not previously explored. Thus it would be expected that a new
discovery cycle may be underway, i.e., starting in 19"5.
B. General GeologY and Hydrocarbon Plays
4.   The Assam Basin is located in the most northeasterly portion of
the Indian Plate. It is sandwiched between two fold belts. To
the north is the Himalayan front where the Assam portion of the
Indian Plate is being subducted beneath the Chinese Plate. To
the southeast, the Assam Basin is bounded by the Assam-Arakan-
Andaman fold belt, which appears to be associated with the
westernmost of the large displacement right lateral wrench
faults which typify the SE Asia/Indonesia Plate. Both of these
mega-tectonic movements began in the late Tertiary with the
wrench fault associated thrusts and folds beginning somewhat in
advance of the Himalayan collision. The bulk of the known
sediments in the Assam Basin, which range from Early Tertiary to
Recent, confirm this hypothesis. From early Eocene to late
Miocene the section thickens to the southeast and becomes
progressively more marine. Pliocene-Recent sedimentst on the
other hand, are almost totally non-marine and thicken to the
north in the direction of the Himalayas. This reversal of dip
direction has resulted in a broad central arch bisecting the
basin. All discoveries to date are on the south flank of this
resultant arch and product from deltaic or near shore sandstones
(both marine and non-marine) of Kocene, Oligocene and Xiocene
age. To date, about 601 of the oil and gas found is in
reservoirs in Oligocene san4s, 302 in M(iocene sands, and 101 or
so in Eocene sands. Oil shows are also encountered in Eocene
limestones of shelf facies. The Eocene carbonate bank front,
which more or less delineates the margin of the Indian Plate,
also passes through the Assam Basin, but to date has not been
clearly identified. The productive petroleum traps are
principally structural, overprinted by stratigraphy being
channeled or bar sands of the respective deltaic complexes. The
basic structures involve rollover into down-to-basin gravity
faults modified by the late structural reversal of the basin.
This latter phenomenon results in significant accumulations in
high side fault closures and perhaps remigration of oil is
significant. Zach younger productive trend lies basinward or
southeast of the next older as a result of progradation in the
basinward direction. The pre-Pliocene section thickens to in
excess of 10,000 m beneath the southeast fold belt, whereas the
Pliocene-Recent section thickens to in excess of 4,000 m beneath
the outer Himalayan thrust. Source rocks for each part of the
Tertiary sections appear to be the interbedded shales in each
group, with the Oligocene Barail shales being the most important
to date. Shales grade progressively from near shore tidal flat
facies to deep marine in a southeasterly direction. Numerous



-73-
ANUl 4.01
Page 13 of 14
oil seeps occur along the folds and thrusts of the southeasterly
belt and it was the result of this surface manifestation that
led to the Digboi field discovery in 1890. The sedimntary
trends are not parallel to the structure of the southeasterly
fold belt, however, and complicate the search in this highly
structured end thrust faulted belt.
5.   Established plays are in Socene, Oligocene and Miocene sands
parallel to sedimentary strike and structured by gravity fault
movements and/or the intersection of those trends with the
highly structured southeasterly fold belt. The limits to these
trends in a strike (sedimentary) direction have not been
established and extensions to the established trends represent
the most obvious future play, particularly in the northeasterly
direction. The Eocene trend has hardly been explored at all due
to early discovery of gas in the zone and the necessity for land
relinquishment. A second future play consideration lies in the
northeastern part of the basin, in which the strike of both
edimentation and structure becomes more north/south and
Pliocene sands also become targets. Two very large structure
have boen defined in this area (tumchai and Manabum structures),
which are underexplored. The initial well on the Kumchai
structure had numerous shows in the Pliocene section before the
hole was lost after encountering excessive gas pressures at the
top of the Miocene sandstones, at S,44S m depth. Continued
exploration at Kumchai is in the imediate plans of OIL. The
only well on the even larger Manabus structure, while located on
the axis, was well off the crest of the structure. It also
penetrated a thick Pliocene sequence which appears attractive
for oil and gas. A third play which appears to be underexplored
is the southeasterly fold belt where the discovery began, at
Digboi. Surface oil shows extend some distance along the Naga
Hills and Margherita thrusted folds southwesterly from Digboi,
and except for a very few early shallow wells, this potential
area has not been explored. Associated with the folds and
thrust faults in the trend are the subthrUst possibilities. One
small field (Iharsang - reserves 2.1 MM a ; 13 M4 bbl) was
discovered in 1976 in Arunchal Pradesh State in a subthrust
trap, i.e., dip reversal below the Margherita thrust.
Logically, there should be more of these, perhaps even near
Digboi itself. A final possibility for hydrocarbon potential is
the Eocene carbonate bank edge, either structured or in "reef"
buildups. Geologic analogy strongly sugests that this play
exists, but it has not been located on seismic data as yet.
However, all seismic data currently available in the Assam Basin
can only be rated as fair/good at relatively shallow depths and
fair/poor at deeper horizons. This places limited on the OIL
exploration program, particularly for the more subtle of the
deep targets.



74 -
AUNEK 4.01
Page I4 ot 14
C.   Hydrocarbon Potential,
6.   OIL presently plans  o add to their existing 2,600 bm2 mining
license and 1,600 m' of exploration license in Assam, and this
is absolutely necessary to the expanded exploration program
submitted in the 7th 5-year Plan. Exploratory drilling in the
7th Plan is currently expected to be 4 total of 56 wells, of
which 16 are extenaionlappraisal and 40 are new field
wildcats. This is an ticrease over the 39 exploratory wells
drilled in the prior five years* In support of this program
some 10,400 line km of seismic profiles are planned, a fourfold
increase over the 2,435 'line km surveyed in the prior five
years. Added processing capacity is also planned so that in
addition to vastly improved coverage, quality should also
improve.
7.   The fourfold increase in sei#aic, coupled with only a 44Z
increase in drilling, should provide a sufficient prospect
inventory from which to make a selective approach to drilling
priorities. In this project, the focus is in exploring for the
deep gas structures in the Xumchai area where numerous gas shows
in the Pliocene sediments were encountered. The tested gas
sections in this well are about 80 m thick, and it is estimated
that probable gas reserves in place in this structure are at
least 150 - 200 BCP of gas.
8. In the proposed Project, the Bank is prepared to support
technical assistance, added seisomc processing capacity, and two
deep exploratory wells in serch of gas on the Kumchai
structure.  Significant gas reserves, if found, could support
export of gas outside the states of ASSAM and Arunachal Pradesh.
Although the gas exploration proposed area in Kumchai is in the
state of Arunachal Pradesh, part of which are subject of a
dispute with China, however, the project area is outside the
Chinese claim. Present gas reserves are more than sufficient to
meet local needs but the excess is still too small to support an
export pipeline. If successful, the projected deep wells should
solve this problem.



t. ..--75-
-?,,,y,1,, .,,,,,ARM 4.02
'' s   '-'1 ' 'w'\                                           Page I of 19
MIA
OIL INDIA LTD PETRL5II PRJCT
DESCRIPTION OP PROJECT COPONENTS
A.  Infill Drilling. Work-Over, Appraisal- and Eploration Drillins Copg nents
Introduction
1.       The objectives of the drilling and work-over program OIL intends to
be carried out under the proposed project would be: (a) improve the
production of esisting oil fields in the state of Assam (b) evaluate the
hydrocarbon potential of the Ku.chai structure which appears to be a highly
prospective gas area in the adjoining state of Arunachal; and (c) test some
gAs prone prospects through exploratory wells in OIL's petroloum exploration
licenso (PEL) area in Rajasthan near the Pakistan border. The Bank supported
program would consist of: Mi) drilling of 51 infill wells of which 42 would
be in Nahorkatiya and 9 in Moran oilfields in Upper-Assa; (ii) repairing
through work-over operation about 900 wells in Upper-Assam oilfields
(iii) drilling of 2 exploratory well, the in Kumchai ar"a; and (iv) drilling
of 6 exploratory wells in the Rajasthan PEL.
OIL's Nain Oilfields
2.       OIL's entire production comes from Asam where four main fields
contain 95Z of its estimated oil reserves (365 NMT) and six other small
scaellite fields account for the balance. The four main fields, Digboi,
Wahorkatiya, Noran and Jorajan and five of the small ones, Kusijan, Langkasit
Santi, Sogapani and Saudang are located in Upper Assam within a 2,000 sq. kms
mining lease. The sixth small field, Kharsang, is located in the adjoining
state of Arunachal Pradesh and about 600 sq. hms of mining lease. The
proposed project would focus mainly on Digboi, Nshorkatiya and Koran. The
Jorajan field is relatively a recent discovery and would require only a few
work-overs under the proposed project.
3.       Digboi (55 NKM  of oil initially in place with 242 already produced)
was discovered in 1890 on the Naga Thrust sheet about 40 kms east of the town
of Duliajan where OIL has its headquarters. The field produces from the
Miocene sands, locally known as Tipams formation at depths ranging from 300 .
to 1,000 s. More than 1,000 wells have been drilled in this field of which
only 400 are actually producing through sucker rod pumps and gas lift systems
with a daily average of 120 tons (140 3 or 882 bbls) of oil. Almost half of
the remaining wells are awaiting repairs (work-over operations) and the others
have been abamdoned or used for water disposal. The field has the most
viscous heavy oil among OIL's oilfields making production very difficult
(average API oil gravity - 22 degrees; specific gravity - 0.921 and viscosity
I to 35 centipoise). Digboi is considered one of the oldest oilfields in the
world.
4.       Mahorkatiya (155 MNT of oil initially in place with 282 already
produced) was Aliscovered in 1953 and is, unlike Digboi, located in the
alluvium covered valley, spread on both sides of the Burhi Dehing river and
near Dal-iajan. It comprises a-series of small oil accumulations in the



- 76 -
ANNEX 4.02
Page 2 of 19
miocene and Oligocene sands, locally known as Tips. and Barails forvmtion at
an average depth of 3,100 m. So far, 275 wells have been drilled of which 163
wells are currently producing a daily average of 3,655 tons (4,255 m3 or
26,700 bbls) of oil, 2.6 NWmJ (92 MMcf) of associated gas and 2,100 m3
(13,230 bbls) of water. Of the remaining wells, 34 are waiting for repairs
and 8 have been abandoned or used for water disposal. About 40X of the
producing wells are self flowing and the remaining are equipped with sucker
rod pumps and gas lift systes.
5.       Moran (57 NUT of oil initially in place with 22X already produced)
was discovered in 1956 about 40 kms south-west of Nahorkatiya, in the same
valley. As in the case of Nahorkatiya, Moran produces from the Oligocene
sands at an average depth of 3,700 m. Ninty-nine wells have been drilled of
which 65 are currently producing through gas lift systeas, at a daily average
of 1,90Q tons (2,200 m  or 13,800 bbla) of oil, 0.5 MN.  of associated gas and
1,900 e (12,000 bbls) of water. Of the remaining wells, 8 are waiting for
repairs and 12 have been abandoned or used for water disposal. The Moran oil
is slightly lighter than the one produced in Nahorkatiya.
6.       Jorajan (107 MMT of oil initially in place with only 3X produced) is
similar in most respects to the nearby Nahokartiya field. Jorajan produces
from the Oligocene as well as from the Miocene formations. So far, 93 wells
have been drilled in Jorajan of which 60 wells are producing at a daily
average of 2,133 tons (2,480 m or 15,600 bbls) of oil. Some of the wells are
self flowing and the others are equipped with gas lift system. OIL is
currently impleamenting a 62-well development program which is expected to be
completed by 1990.  OIL's forecast is to double the actual production rate by
1990.  In order to optimize the productivity of the field, OIL is preparing a
pressure maintenance program for the Miocene reservoir consisting of gas
injection. The program will start in 1987.
Production Method
7.       As can be noted from the fields' description, Jorajan has not yet
reached its full production capacity, while the other three fields, Digboi,
Nahorkatiya and Moran are in fairly advanced stages of depletion. Their
reservoirs started depleting more than 15 years ago. The production decline
would have been much more severe had OIL not carried out same secondary-
recovery programs. About 70X of the 6,595 tons of oil produced daily by the
three fields is the result of these earlier programs which have been carried
out over the past 12 years, and consisted mainly of water flooding and gas
injection schemes for pressure maintenance. Since then, OIL kept expanding
the application of these pressure-maintenance techniques, thus acquiring
substantial experience and strengthening its capability.  This is an excellent
performance particularly when the production of these three fields represents
about 701 of OIL's current production. So far, more than 28 conventional
secondary recovery operations consisting mainly of water injection (down-dip
water injection) and gas -injection (crestal injection) are being carried out
successfully. Most of these are confined to the Nahorkatiya and the Moran
oilfields. In addition, two NOR pilots (one polymer flood in Nahorkatiya and
one condensate miscible flood in Digboi) are currently being implemented.
Given the results, OIL is now encouraged to further extend EOR applications to
most of its fields.



- 77 -
AhNEX 4.02
Page 3 of 19
Infill Drilling
8.       Simultaneously, and in order to obtain optimum production, new wvlls
will be drilled with a view to reduce the well spacing in some areas and
improve the overall wvll completion design. The new drilling program along
with the rehabilitation of existing wells requiring work-over will enable OIL
to expand rapidly and improve its secondary recovery schemes, principally
water and gas injection. The objective of this program is to increase the oil
production by a total of about 16.5 MNT (120 MMbbls) over the next 10 years.
The proposed infill drilling will be carried out over the next six years.
fifty-one new wvlls will be drilled, of which 42 will be in Nahorkatiya with
an average depth of 3,100 a, and 9 in the Moran oilfield with an average depth
of 3,700 m. The vells will be similar to those drilled so far in both
fields. They will have an intermediate 9 5/8 inch casing within the Pliocene
formation (Alluvium/Dhekia Juli) at about 1,000 m to cover all surface loose
sands and a 5 1/2 inch casing to the total depth. Overall drilling program
will be flexible in order to complete the well either as producer (sucker rod
pump or gas lift) or as injector (gas or water). OIL would drill and complete
these wells using its own drilling rigs and crew personnel under the drilling
department in Duliajan. OIL is technically competent to carry out this
program economically without increasing the size of its drilling department.
Furthermore, OIL will carry out all other drilling related operations such as
electric logging, cementing, etc. using its own departmental services and
personnel. In the past, as drilling operations in Assam have always been
carried out through internal departmental services, thus giving OIL the
requisite experience and management capability for such operations. During
the project appraisal, OIL's drilling capability within the Assam area,
particularly with regard to development and infill drilling, was carefully
assessed and determined to meet the requirements of efficient and timely
program implementation. Overall conventional drilling performance in Assam is
up to international oil industry standards.



-78 -
-AMN   4.02
P>alo 4 -fr19
9.       The cost estimate of the proposed infill drilling it as follows:
1988     1989     1990      1991     1992    Total
Naboruatija field
o* of ligs                  1        2        2         2        2
o. of Wells                3        12       12        12        3       42
us million
Poreign  zpien.          2.1       8.3      8.3      8.3       2.1     29.1
Local 8xpen.             1.8       7.3      7.3      7.3       1.8     25.5
Total                 §:3      15.6     157.     156        3.9     S4.6
Noran
No. of Rigs                                             1        1        1
Go. of Vells                                           6         3        9
US$ willion
@oreigntxpe.                                         4.9       2.4      7.3
Local Expen.                                         4.4       2.3      6.7
Total                                             9.33      47      14.0
Total Infill Drilling
Foreign Expen.           2.1       8.3      8.3     13.2       4.5     36.4
Local Uxpen.             1.8       7.3      7.3     11.7       4.1     32.3
3.9     15.6    1W.6      24.9       8.6      8
The above cost estimate does not include taxes, custom duties, physical and
price contingencies. The foreign expenditure portion covers imported drilling
materials consisting of casing, tubing, drilling and coring bits, oil well
cement and additives, wellhead equipment, casing accessories, drilling rig
parts, electric logging parts and down hole completion equipment. No foreign
drilling services, and no direct import of capital items such as major
drilling rig components are included. The local expenditure portion covers
all local force account services, products, and equipment (including indirect
foreign exchange cost). The cost estimate is based on early 1986 prices.
Work-Over
10.      In order for the additional secondary recovery program along with the
new infill drilling to achieve optimum results, the number of wells shut down
for lack of repair (work-over) need to be considerably reduced. In this
regard, OIL has formulated a comprehensive field rehabilitation program
consisting mainly of work-over operations. This would reduce substantially
the work-over backlog and increase OIL's capacity and quality of well
maintenance. It will also help OIL to cope with the increasing number of
work-over as a result of the additional secondary recovery schemes. At
present, about 120 wells, with complex jobs, need to be repaired each year.
This number is expected to increase to 130 and then 140 wells annually in the
next 5 to 6 years. Currently, there is a backlog of about 40 wells which have
been in need of complex work-over jobs for sometime and several wells in need
of the urgent servicing. The resulting production loss is estimated at
200,000 tons of oil per year for 198S and 1986.



- 79 -
AS=3 4.02
Page 5 of 19
11.      Most well damages and problems that need to be worked over and
repaired are due to production problems mainlys sand clogging and abrasion;
water encroachment and leakage; and paraffin (wax) build-up. Sand is
undoubtedly one of the major problems in many wells that have been shut down
in Assam fields. The younger Tertiary Sediments such as the Niocene and the
Oligocene which are the producing formations in Assam, have unconsolidated
sands in the producing reservoir. The sand particles are carried into the
wellbore as oil is produced. Borehole bridging and erosion-abrasion damages
are, therefore, frequent and cause the wells to progressively be less
productive and if not repaired, to be shut-down. One of the objectives of the
work-over program would be to replace damaged down hole equipment and control
the sand flow by installing mechanical devices such as gravel-packs, pre-
packs, slotted liners with screens, etc.
12.      Another major production problem is caused by the large volume of
water produced with the OIL. Most of Assam oilfields have very high water
cuts - that is, proportion of water to the total volume of liquids (oil and
water) produced. Almost half of OIL's production have 301 to 60X water cuts
which adversely affects the down hole equipment. The most vulnerable
equipment is the gas lift system which becomes progressively less effective
with increasing water cuts and eventually becomes inoperative. Out of the 400
wells equipped with gas lift system, about 201 are shut down every year
because of water-related problems within their gas lift systems. These wells
can be repaired only through work-over operations. The water comes mostly
from the water injection operations, but also partly from leakges due to poor
cement bonds behind the casings. The third major production problem
encountered in the Assam oilfields, particularly in Nahorkatiya and Moran, is
the paraffin deposition in the production tubing in the wellbore as well as in
the surface flow line as a result of the high wax content in the crude oil
(10-141) which consequently reduces the oil flow. Wells equipped with gas
lift system are also adversely affected by the wax build-up. Producing wells
need frequent work-over operations for paraffin control operations.
13.      OIL has extensive experience in all facets of work-over activities.
It began working over its wells since the advent of oil production in Assan
due to problems associated with the high wax content and large volume of
formation water. OIL presently owns and operates 8 work-over rigs for complex
jobs and several truck mounted wireline servicing units for down hole surveys
and quick check operations. To meet its growing work-over requirements, OIL
intends to purchase 6 additional work-over units during the project
implementation period and has already placed order for four work-over rigs to
be delivered as follows: 2 in 1987; 2 in 1989. The other two rigs are to be
delivered in 1990 and 1992. These acquisitions are not included in the
proposed Bank projeCt. When completed, this fleet is expected to match the
work-over needs (120 to 140 wells/year). Meanwhile, OIL needs to eliminate
the large work-over backlog of about 960 wells. For this purpose, it would
hire the services of work-over contractor with rig for a period of 4 years as
required. These services are included under the proposed Bank project and
would begin in 1988. To accomplish this task and keep up with the additional
work-over jobs resulting from future larger secondary recovery schemes, OIL
will need to expand further its work-over capability.
14.      Due to the variety of probable causes of well problems and to the
uncertainty about the magnitude of the problems and the possible solutions, it



- 80 -
ANN   4.02
Page 6 of 19
is always difficult to establish work-over cost forecasts. However, in the
context of the proposed Bank project, and on the basis of previous experience,
OIL and Bank staff have estimated the work-over expenditures as follows:
1987-   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   Total
OIL Rigs           9         9     11      13     13     14     14       14
Go. of Wells      90        90    110    130    130    140    140       830
$ Million
Foreign  xpen.   2.8       2.8    3.4    4.0    4.0    4.4    4.4    25.8
Local Expen.     5.2       5.2    6.3    7.5    7.5    8.1    8.1    47.9
Contract Rigs     --         1      1      1       1     --               1
No. of Wells      --        24     24     24      24                     96
US$ Million
Foreign Ixpen.    --       4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8      --           19.2
Local rxpon.       -       1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3      --            5.2
Total
Foreign Expen.   2.8       7.6    8.2    8.8    8.8    4.4    4.4    45.0
Local Ixpen.     5.2       6.5    7.6    8.8    8.8    8.1    8.1    53.1
-8.0    14.1   15.8   17.6   17.6   12.5   12.5    98.1
The above cost estimate does not include taxes, custom duties, physical and
price contingencies. The foreign expenditure portion covers: (1) the work-
over service contract with 2 rigs at US$4 million per year; (2) all imported
materials and down hole equipment consisting of chemicals, wellheads, gas lift
systems, sucker rod pumps, tubings, packers; and (3) logging tool parts,
perforator guns and rig component parts. No direct imports of capital items
such as major work-over rigs components or servicing units are included. The
local expenditure portion covers all local force account services, products,
and equipment (including indirect foreign exchange cost). The cost estimate
is based on OIL's recent expenditures for work-over activities.
15.      Just as it is difficult to forecast the magnitude of the work-over
operations, it is just as difficult, if not go, to forecast the production
improvements from such operations in terms of incremental oil production.
However, on the basis of previous experience and anticipating that the
expanded secondary recovery schemes will work satisfactorily, OIL and Bank



- 81 -
ANNEX 4.02
Page 7 of 19
staff have estimated the production gain from the proposed work-over program
as follows:
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993    Total
Gain in Oil
Production (HMT)           0.43   0.64   0.94   1.20   1.42   1.61    6.24
Kumchai MEploration Drilling
16.      When Assam's existing major oil fields began their production decline
about 15 years ago, OIL started exploring areas near the mature hydrocarbon
basin in Assam in order to establish additional reserves.  It obtained then
about 1,S00 sq. bus of petroleum exploration license area in the contiguous
state of Arunachal in the early 1960.. After the geophysical survey, OIL
retained only about 550 sq. km. of the original exploration license area for
further exploration work which resulted later in 1974 in the discovery of the
Xharsang oilfield about 80 kms east of Duliajan. The Kharsang field is
currently being developed and is expected to produce about 100,000 tons of oil
per year. Encouraged by Kharsang discovery, OIL decided to drill 2 other
structures, Manabum and Kumchai, both located in the northern part of the
Ningru rea, north of Noa Dihing river approximately 20 kms north of
Kharsang. Both structures proved to be highly prospective particularly
Kumchai which tested several gas shows. Manabum is of shallower depth
(4,000 m) with a normal pressure gradient (8,000 Psi). Kumchai is much deeper
(6,000 m) and has an abnormally high pressure gradient particularly below
4,5OO m-(18,000 Psi). While drilling in Nanabum is easily within OIL's
capability, drilling in Kumchai will require some foreign specialized services
and technical assistance because of OIL's lack of experience in such types of
drilling. The Kumehai exploration work is, therefore, proposed as a component
of the proposed Bank project.
17.      The first Kumchai exploration well was spudded in September 1977.  It
encountered 13 hydrocarbon (mostly gas) bearing sands with a total pay zone
thickness of about 105 a, all in the upper Miocene formation (Girujans)
between 3,140 a and 5,200 m.  These sands could not be tested because of
mehanical dtilling problems. They have been, however, evaluated through mud
and wireline logging and very likely to be gas bearing except for two sands
which could contain oil at 3,140 a and 5,200 m, respectively. The well was
abandoned in November 1979 after it suffered a severe blow out at 5,460 m with
simultaneous collapse of the open hole section. Based on geological
correlations, it is presumed that the blow out occurred just after the lower
Niocene formation (Tipam) was penetrated which appeared to be a very high
pressure gas zone. Since then, OIL has carried out a complete study of all
drilling and geological data gathered from the Kumchai-1 well. The well data
was supplemented with 60 bus of detailed additional seismic survey. Based on
the results of these analyses, OIL is preparing to drill four additional
explorationiappraisal wells of which the first two will be included in the
proposed Dank project. These two wells will be specially designed to test and
evaluate the high pressure sone with a target depth of about 6,100 m. The
other two wells will be drilled only down to the upper Miocene at about
4,200 m.



- 82 -
A£313 4.02
Page8 of 19
18.      The Iumchai deep vells will require a special casing design.  A
tentative program has been discussed with the OIL drilling department during
the project appraisal. The casing policy would consist oft (1) a 24-1/2 inch
surface casing down to about 1,000 m to cover the Pleistocene loose sand
formation; (2) three intermediate casings of (a) 16 inch down to about 3,000 a
to cover the Miopliocene, (b) 11-3/4 inch down to about 4,300 m to covet the
hydrostatic pressure interval, and (c)-9-5/8 inch down to about 5,100 a to
cover the pressure transition interval; and (3) a 7 or 6-5/8 inch production
casing through the high pressure zone. The final program will be worked out
at a later date when the exact well locations are determined. The two wells
are planned to be drilled over a period of 2 years in 1989 and 1990. OIL will
use one of its two heavy drilling rigs to drill the wells.
19.      The drilling operations and a large part of related specialized
services will be carried out and coordinated by OIL's field headquarters in
Duliajan. Although OIL has carried out most of the specialized well services
required in Assam, for these two deep wells, particularly the deeper section,
the critical services will be carried out by specialixed international firms
as well as with the help of some technical assistance. On this basis, OIL's
drilling department would be capable of implementing the Kumchai deep
drilling. While OIL had drilling difficulties in the first well, these
difficulties were caused by the use of inappropriate local substitutes for
materials normally imported. These products will be imported under the
proposed project. The use of OIL's equipment supported by the hiring of
specialized international service companies and adequate consultancy is the
most cost effective method of implementing this project component. The two
wells would cost about US$3 million more if drilled by a drilling contractor,
even after taking into account the low cost of today's depressed drilling
market.
20.      The cost estimate of the two deep Kumchai wells is as follows:
…=~==- - ---- (US$ Million)
Well Materials              1988         1989        1990          Total
Foreign Expenditure          4.5           4.5          3             12
Local Expenditure             2.0          2.0          2              6
TOTAL               6.5           6.5          5             18
The above cost estimate does include taxes and custom duties, but not the
physical and price contingencies. The foreign expenditure portion covers
imported drilling materials consisting of casing, tubing, drilling an coring
bits, oil well cement and additives, wellhead equipment, casing accessories,
drilling rig parts, down hole completion equipment, electric logging service
and drilling technical assistance. No direct imports of capital items such as
major drilling rig components are included. The local expenditure portion
covers all local force account services, products, and equipment (including
indirect foreign exchange cost). The cost estimate is based on 1986 prices
for similar deep high pressure wells drilled in other parts of the world.



- 83 -
AW=  4.02
Page 9 of 19
Rajasthan Ixploration Drilling
21.      At the end of the 1970's, OIL extended its exploration activity to
other parts of India after previously limiting its exploration to the vicinity
of the mature hydrocarbon basins in Assam where exploration was not highly
risky, but often did not provide spectacular results either. After acquiring
an exploration license, onshore in the state of Orissa (tahanadi Basin), OIL
also obtained in 1982 a petroleum exploration license area of about
28,600 sq. km. in Rajasthan near where ONGC, the other Indian state-owned oil
company has made a gao discovery earlier and, on the other side of the border,
the Pakistan state-owned oil company has been producing gas for some time.
OIL's exploration area is located between the border with Pakistan and
Jaisalmer, asgaur and Dikanar towns. Seismic data acquisition including
processing of about 7,200 line kms was contracted to an international
geophysical company in 1984 and is still in progress. A second seismic survey
consisting of about 30,000 line khs of high resolution seismic will follow. A
large part of the initial seismic data has been processed and its
interpretation is under way. So fart OIL has identified several dvillable
prospects and five wells are to be drilled under the proposed Bank project.
22.      While the well locations will not be finalized until later, four
prospects located in the Jaisalmer Basin (North Tanot, East Ranau, last
Ramgarh and Southeast Chantiali) and 1 in the Bikaner-Nagaur Basin (Northeast
Pugal) appear to be prime candidattes for drilling. It should be mentioned,
however, that as new seismic data interpretation become available, these
proposed drilling locations could, with justification, be significantly
altered during the implementation period, as some of them have not yet been
sufficiently defined to permit a judicious choice of drilling locations. A
summary of the 5 prospects discussed during the appraisal mission is as
follows:
Proects       North Tanot     East Raneu      East Ramoarh    S.E. OhntialI    NE,E 11
Target depth m   5,000          4,000           5,500           4,000         2,500
Primary Objective  Triassic     Triassic/Jurasslc  TriasslciPalooz.  Jurassic  Lower PalnozoIc
Tent. Casing Pr*
20".               5o0          50               350            500            250
13 34'-          2,500 or deep   1,800          2,000           1,800         1,000
9 5/86           4,00          2,700           3,200 or 4,000   2,700        2,000
7'               TD             TD              TD              TD            TD
Exp. OrIng
Tim. (days)      210           1l0              240             ISO            90
23.      The Rajasthan exploration driiling component will be implemented
through specialized international service companies.  OIL has already launched
the bidding process for hiring a drilling contractor and is actively preparing
the tender docments for procuring the other drilling related services such as
wireline electric logging, mud logging and well testing. OIL will supervise
and coordinate all of these services through a drilling department which is
currently being staffed and organised in Jodhpur. The Jodhpur drilling
department will have the back-up of the Duliajan headquarters from where most
of the key personnel will come. In order to exercise substantial control and



- 84 -
ANNEX 4.02
Page 10 of 19
responsibility over daily operations, the Jodhpur team will be entirely
decentralized from Duliajan with a high level of delegation of authority.
Most of the procurement activity related to the drillin8 operations will be
carried out in Jodhpur.
24.      The cost estimate to drill the S prospects is as follows:
LUSS Million)  North Tanot East Rano  East R rh  S.E. Ghantlall  N&E. Pgal  Tatol
Foreign Expen.   4.0      3.5         4.5          3.5         2.0      17.5
Local Expas.              3.0                      3.0         1.8      I5.5
TOTAL       7.6       6.5          8.6          6.5         3.8      33.0
The above cost estimate does include taxes and custom duties, but not the
physical and price contingencies. The foreign expenditure portion covers
imported drilling materials consisting of casing, tubing, drilling and coring
bits, oil well cement and additives, wellhead equipment, casing accessories
and down hole completion equipment. It also covers drilling related services
consisting of wireline electric logging, formation testing, mud logging and
technical assistance. No direct imports of capital items such as major
drilling rig components are included. The local expenditure portion covers
all local force account services, products, and equipment (including indirect
foreign exchange cost). The cost estimate is based on similar wells drilled
in the area by O0CC, and the cost for materials and equipment used by OIL
elsewhere.
Field Operations and Coordination
25.      The drilling and work-over activities OIL will carry out under the
proposed project are spread over two different areas, namely: Assam and the
adjoining state of Arunachal for the infill drilling, the work-over, as well
as the Kumchai exploration; and Rajasthan for exploration. The two areas are
several thousand kms distant from each other. The Assam and Arunachal
components will be managed by OIL's field headquarters in Duliajan. The
Rajasthan exploration drilling will be under the responsibility of a recently
established group in Jodhpur. The Jodhpur group will function independently
with some back-up support from Assam headquarters for the drilling and well
testing programs. It has competent and able personnel in most technical
aspects of exploration drilling, including two foreign consulting
geophysicists. The over-all project coordination will be done by the New
Delhi office of OIL under the supervision of the Adviser for Strategic
Planning.
B.       Enhanced Oil Recovery Pilot Schemes
I.       INTRODUCTIO
26.      Oil India Limited (OIL) has three principal oilfields (viz.
Nahorkatiya, Moran and Digboi) in Upper Assam which are in fairly advanced
stages of depletion with present cumulative oil production levels ranging from
221 - 28X of individual oil-in-place estimates. In these three fields,
decline in production has already set in.



- 85 -
ANNE 4.02
Page 11 of 19
27.      The total estimated oil-in-place for Nahorkatiya, Moran and Digboi
fields taken together is about 258 million tons. Based on the additional
recovery sch_ems that have been plnned/iuplemented in sone selected
reservoirs, the recoverable oil reserves from the three fields could reach
about 90 million tons, thoreby increasing the overall average recovery factor
(R.F.) from these fields to about 35Z. The R.F., however, varies considerably
within a range of ISO - 451 for individual reservoirs depending upon
geological settings and reservoir characteristics.
28.      Through the application of sophisticated 30 measures it is envisaged
that nearly two-thirds of original oil-in-place in the three fields of
Rahorkatiya, Koran and Digboi (which cannot be recovered by the exploitation
schemes presently operative) will be achieved.
29.      Enhanced oil recovery (301) is defined as the incremental ultimate
oil that can be economically produced from a petroleum reservoir over that
which can be economically recovered by conventional primary and secondary
ethods. Conventional secondary recovery techniques introduce additional
energy into the reservoir system through the injection of water and/or gas
under pressure.
30.      Currently, 28 secondary recovery projects, like down-dip water
injection and/or crestal gas injection, are in operation in the major
reservoirs of Vahorkotiya, Moran and Digboi. Additionally, two B0R projects
(one of polymer flooding in Nahorkatiya and the other a pilot project of
miscible flooding with condensate slug injection in a Digboi reservolr) have
been implemented. Taken together, these 30 secondary recovery/loR projects
are being applied to 79M of the known producing reservoirs in the three
fields. The 22 reservoirs operating under various injection schemes presently
account for more than 801 of the current total daily oil production rate of
the three fields which averages about 36,000 BOD.
31*      Most of the reservoirs have reacted favorably to secondary recovery
measures as is reflected by their improved performance compared to what was
predicted earlier assuming primary recovery only. The estimated additional
crude oil reserves due to the implemented secondary recovery/BoR operations in
the various reservoirs is about 16.53 million tons, which increases the
overall average R.P. of all the reservoirs taken together from about 28.81 to
around 36.61.
32.      The three aging fields (Mahorkatiya, Moran and Digboi) are now in a
stage of depletion and hence require the application of secondary recovery
measures and applications of suitable BOR techniques in selected reservoirs.
IV.      PMSENT STATUS OF SECONDARY RECOVERY/EOR SCHEMES
33.      Systematic techniques have been implemented only in the Moran and
Nahorkatiya fields, consisting of conventional secondary recovery schemes of
crestal gas injection and/or down-dip water injection. In the case of one
particular oil pool in the Zaloni area of the Nahorkatiya field, polymer
flooding has been in progress for the last 9 years. In the case of the Digboi
field, 4 projects of gas and water injection are being contemplated.
Additionally, a pilot project of miscible flooding using condensate slug
injection has been recently initiated in one of the reservoirs of the Digboi
field to handle the wax problem.



_ 86 _
AWN=X 4.02
Page 12 of 19
34.      The total additional recoverable oil reserves attributable to the
fluid injection schemes that have been planned/implemented in the three fields
are estimated at around 16.5 million tons.
35.      From Anne% Tables A, B and C attached, 12 out of a total of 14
relatively large-sied reservoirs (Class "A" and "B") of the Nahorkatiya and
Moran fields have already produced more than 20X of their respective
oil-in-place values. As many as 9 reservoirs out of these have, in fact,
produced more than 302 of their respective oil-in-place. Thus all these major
reservoirs of Nabhorkatiya and Moran have reached fairly advanced stages of
depletion. Expansion of secondary recovery measures as well as judicious
planning/implementation of suitable sophisticated BOR schemes in these fields
will, therefore, have to be undertaken on an urgent basis.
36.      In respect of the Digboi field, the sumary position of cumulative
oil recovery as of 1985 is as follows:
Cumulative Oil
Oil-in-Place          Production          Remarks
(million tons)     (2 of oil-in-place)
Eastern field       17.68                 17.2X           Recovery from
individual
reservoirs varies
from 12 to 402 of
oil-in-place
Vestern field       30.0                  28.4X
TOTAL               47.68                 24.22
Adoption of suitable NOR techniques can be expected to augment recovery from
the Digboi field, particularly from some of the Eastern field reservoirs where
recovery to date has been very low owing to various factors. However, the
lack of adequate data on the reservoir characteristics has delayed the
implementation of any systematic NOR techniques.
III*    SCOPE OF APPLICATION OF NOR TECHNIQUES
37.      As discussed earlier, Nahorkatiya, Moran and Digboi oilfields are in
a stage of depletion where application of sophisticated NOR techniques could
significantly improve the recovery rate from these fields. Technology and
economics will, however, both have a major impact on the NOR potential to be



- d?7 -
AN1B3 4.02
Pa13--oT 19
applied. The copleo operation of implemaeting field-scale a0n projects could
be divided into the following phase.t
(i)    preliminary screening;
(ii)    feasibility study and preliminary desin;
(iii)    pilot design;
(iv)    Pilot Project implementation; performance monitoring and
evaluationi and
tv)    design and implementation of field-wise N0R operations.
The various phases as mentioned above would have to be evaluated by extensive
laboratory and numerical sitmlation studies.
38.      Preliminary analyses suggest that some of the BOR techniques with
potential applicability in OIL fields in Assam are:
(i) miscible flooding by enriched gas injection in Nabhorkatiya and
Moran oilfieldo;
(ii)    002 flooding in Vaborkatiya, Moran and Digboi fields;
(iii)    LPG/condensate slug injection (miscible flooding) and polymer
flooding in Digboi oilfield; and
(iv)    thermal methods in Digboi oilfield.
Though C02 flooding appears to have good potential as an NOR process in some
reservoirs, there are presently no suitable C02 supply sources in the vicinity
of the oilfields. With reference to (iii) above, some preliminary laboratory
investigations have also been carried out with the help of ONGC's Institute of
Reservoir studies at Abmedabad and is presently being ezperimented on a
pilot-scale in the Digboi field.
39.      During the appraisal of the project, the services of a consultant was
used to evaluate the progress of the ongoing secondary recovery and NOR
schemes, and the results were found to be encouraging. It is envisaged that a
successful implementation of the planned/operating injection projects
(including provision for artificial lift facilities) during the period 1985/86
- 1989/90 would augment the overall R.P. (primary plus secondary) of the
reservoirs subjected to gas and/or water (including polymer) injection
easures to around 36.6X, as against an estimated primary B.P. of 28.81
only. In terms of recoverable oil, this would approximate to 20 million tons
of additional oil.
40.      To improve recovery levels further, sophisticated NOR techniques need
to be applied in selected reservoirs. However, prior to embarking on
field-scale NOR operations, detailed reservoir simulation studies using
relevant software packages, laboratory experiments and pilot-scale projects
will have to be undertaken. It is however difficult to quantify at this stage
the likely extra recovery due to adoption of EOR techniques in selected
reservoirs.



OIL INDIA LINITED
TABLE A:  STATE OF DEPLETION OF OIL iESERVOIRS OF NUAORKATIYA FIELD
Class of      Number of         Total             Number of Reservoirs               Total Cumulative
Reservoirs     Reservoirs    Oll-In-Place           that have Produced                 011 Prowuction                        Remarks
(million tons)      20% of            30% of        Off std.kls.)   Weighted
oil-in-place     oil-in-place                     ag.j of
oil-in-Place
A               4             79.2029           4                  3            25.8223         32.60%        Class "A" refers to reservoir ulth
(Large reservoirs)                                                                                               oil-in-place aare than or equal to
10 million tons
8               6             38.1756           6                  5            11.9771         31.37%        Class "B" refers to reserwvoir with
(Medium reservoirs)                                                                                              oil-in-place betweon 4.0 *illion
and 10 mIllion tons of oil
C              20             45.5602          12                11             10.6672         23.41%        Class "Co refers to reservoir with
(SawiI reservoirs)                                                                                               oIl-in-plce between 1-5
ill ion                                                                                                           tons of oil
TOTAL (A + 0 + C)  30            162.9387          22                 19           48.4666         29.75%         These 30 reservoirs, belonging to
Classes A, B and C, account for about
91% of th  total oil-in-place In the
Nahorkatiya field.
Source: Oil India Ltd. (1965)
I..|
0W 0
Ph O
be



OIL INDIA LINITED
TABLE B: STAlE OF DEPLETION OF OIL ESERVOIRS OF MJORN FIELD
Class of     Number of         Total            Numr  of  soroirs                Total Cumlative
ieservoirs    Resrvolrs    01i-I-Place            that bave Produced               01I Production                       Rnrwks
(oillIon tons)      20% of          30% of        OU  stdAils.)  RightOd
oil-In-place    oil-nPlace                      avg.% of
oI-Inplace
A              2             31.4             2                 1            9.7            30.93S        Clas MAI refes to resevntr with
(Large reservoirs)                                                                                           ofl -1n-lace of abosst9   tOns
B              2             13.0             -                 -             1.92          14.76S        Closs'a refers to resevoir with
(Medium reservoirs)                                                                                          oil- lalc  bhetwe  4.3 mIllion
and 9a  Ilook ton  of oil
C              6              9.52            -                 -            0.72            7.56S        Clas "Co refes to roesvoir wit 
(small reservoirs)                                                                                           olt-iplace betul_ 1-5 ofmIII
tons                                                                                                         ofI
TOTAL (A - B 4 C) 10             54.0             2                 1           12.34           22.90%       The  10 resevoirs, belonging to
Class A, B and C, account for  ~
91% of tO total oil-i-place ln t
Neo  fi1ld.
Source: Oil India Ltd. (1985)
Ii 



OIL INDIA LIMITED
TABLE C:  RESERVOIR CARCISTICS OF ASSA OIL FIELDS
CNeborkatlya, Moran and Dlgi fe lds)
Parameters                                    Nbhorkatliy           Horan            010.1
(i)  Depth (a)                                  2700 - 3200         3200 - 3600       300 - I000
( I)  Porosity (S)                                 16 -22              18 - 20          20 - 25
(iii)  Connate Water Saturotion (S)                 25 - 35            28 - 32           30 - 35
(iv)  Permeability (ad)                           25 - 20             100 - 300        100 - IOO0
(v)  Crude Oi Iravity (A API)                     28 - 35            32 - 36           19 - 35
(vi)  Reservoir Oil Viscosity Cep)               0.4 - 1.6*             0.5              1 - 35
(vii)  Formation Dip (doegre)                        3 - 4              3 - 4           30 - 90 
(vii) 0Oil-in-Place (aillion tons)                     154                57.0              47
Notes:   *   The reservoir with the relatively viscous crudt  (1.6 Cp) has been subjected to
polVmer flood successfully.
*' The northern flank of Digbol anticilne is stepe,r, wIth dips up to go0; the,
the southern flank has a variable dip rnging froo 30* to 60-.
Source: Oil Inrdia Ltd. (1985)
;t 0



_ 91 _
A*N=3 4.02
Page- 17 o f 19
C.       TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOM INSTITUTION BUILDING
41.      OIL is the maller of the two national oil companies in India.  Its
current operations includes
(a) oil and gas production from the Assam fields of Nahorkatiya,
Moran and Digboi fields. It' total mining lease area over
these fields is about 2,600km'. It currently produces about
2.7 million tons of crude oil and 1.6 BCH of gas per year.
These fields are already exporiencing decline in production and
application of secondary and tortiary production schemes are of
immediate necessity in order to arrest the decline in production
and also improve the overall productivity of the fields;
(b) hydrocarbon exploration in Assa. and Arun!hal Pradesh (total
exploratign license area is about 3,200km ); Rgjasthan
(18#720ke')l Orissa (Nahana i onshore, 8,560kmW)l offshore in
the Bay of Bengal (28,800km ) and in the Andamans (10,900km ).
Exploration in Orissa and offshore Bay of Bengal (NBC) has been
going on since 1982, and about 8 wells have been drilled, none
of which have encountered significant hydrocarbon shows.
Exploration in Rajasthan and the Andamans is in the pre-drilling
stage;
(c) gathering and treatment of oil and gas in Assam and transmission
by pipeline to refineries of Baraumi (capacity 3.30 mtpa),
Bongaigaon (capacity 1.0 mtpa), Guvahati (capacity 0.85 stpa) in
Eastern India; and Dighoi (capacity 0.50 mtpa) in Assam; and
(d) a substantial program of research, developing in oil exploration
and production, and technical services in support of its pro-
duction and exploration activities.
42.      Currently, OIL's staff consist of about 7500 employees of which
approximately 800 are high level cechnical staff with graduate degrees. These
cadre of technical staff are familiar with the literature on advances in
petroleum technology and field practices and have applied some of these new
technologies on a limited pilot scale. However, their practical exposure is
very limited to exploration in India and, in particular, in Assam where the
geology is unique and in addition, most of the current production and
exploration practices and facilities are based on old technologies and
obsolete equipment. While these old technologies and related practices were
adequate for the initial exploration of primary production of the Asiam oil-
fields, they are currently inadequato for maximizing the exploitation of
partially depleted or "old fields", and for exploring the less obvious or more
subtle hydrocarbon traps in areas of complex geology including drilling of
deep gas traps in high temperature and pressure regimes. Purthermore, as the
activities of OIL expand to include exploration in new areas, the total
numbers of staff will increase and it is envisaged that during the life of
this project, the level of staff will increase by twofold to 14,500 of which
the technical staff will be about 1,300.



-92-
AW=X 4.02
Page 18 of 19
43.      Therefore, in order for OIL to increase its production levels both in
gas and oil from the "old" fiLelds, through application of sophisticated pro-
duction improvement schemes, expand its exploration activities into new areas,
and also remain a competitively viable exploration and production company
during the rest of this decade and beyond, it would have to take some decisive
actions along several fronts. Firstly, it would have to institute a compre-
hensive training program to upgrade the technical capability of its staff.
Secondly, it would have to: (a) replace and upgrade its existing obsolete
equipment and technology for exploration, drilling and production, including
implementing workover services on most of its wells in Assam; and (b) use
technical consultants to help design and evaluate its secondary and tertiary
production improv emnt schemes and expose its staff to the application of
recent advanced technology in oil exploration and production.
44.      To meet the above requirements, the management of OIL has decideds
(a) to set up two training centres - one for the high level tech-
nical and executive staff to be called Management Training and
Development Institute (MTDI), and one for the non-technical
staff to be called the Oil Training Institute (OTI);
(b) purchase necessary up-to-date equipment in data acquisitiorn and
proressing as well as laboratory equipment for research and
development; and
(c) employ local and foreign consultants to assist in training and
implementation of sophisticated new technologies in enhanced oil
recovery and exploration.
45.      The proposed project will reinforce and emphasize these actions
through assisting in the procurement of necessary equipment and consultancy
services for training and for the implementation of the production improvement
schemes.
46.      Under the technical assistance component, about US$21.7 million has
been allocated for procurement of necessary equipment for data acquisition and
processing (US$13.5 million); training of OIL staff both locally and abroad as
well as consultancy services (US$4 million); and procurement of equipment for
chemical laboratories for research and development (US$4.3 million). Of this
amount, US$9.3 million is in foreign exchange and total allocation to be
financed by the Bank loan is about US$7.4 million.
47.      Detailed Allocation of Funds
(it   Data Acquisition and Processing Equipment.  In order for OIL to
upgrade its seismic data acquisition capabilities, it would need
to purchase modern seismic data recording equipment with cap,
ability of acquiring 3-D seismic data with an option for
telemetry, which will be needed in areas of complex geology and
rugged terrain. The total estimated foreign exchange cost for
this equipment, including spare parts, is about
US$3.2 million. OIL currently posseses an obsolete seismic data
processing computer (a mini computer SEL 32/77 series) with very
limited capabilities both in size and in quality. This computer
was purchased in 1974. It has very limited hardware and soft-



- 93 -
A=X 4.02
Page 19 of 19
ware capabilities, and lacks the flexibility of applying new
sophisticated software for improving quality of processed
data. In order for OIL to be able to handle the large volume of
data expected to be collected as OIL expands its exploration
activities to new areas, it would need a larger, modern and more
versatile computer with necessary software to improve the
processing capabilities.  The estimated foreign exchange cost
for such a versatile processing computer is about
US$3.8 million, including spare parts and software'
(ii)    Equipment and Training.  The following equipment would be pur-
chased specifically for training under this project. The costs
shown are in foreign exchange:
(a) video camera, projector and recording equipment (U$15,000);
(b) progress simulator for LPG processing (US$200,000);
(c) Chemical laboratory equipment, including centrifugal pumps,
separators, microscopes, etc (US$250,000).
In addition to the equipment to be purchased, consulting
services would be required for training the staff in the use of
this equipment. For this, about US$400,000 has been allocated.
(iii)    Training Program.  The training program as designed would
consist of two phases: (a) engaging foreign experts in
petroleum technology and management skills to assist in the
training of the staff at the two institutes already set up in
Assam; and (b) training abroad of OIL staff in specific facets
of oil exploration and development. For the first part, about
12 man months for foreign technical consultants would be
required at an estimated cost of US$14,000 per man month,
including travel, subsistence and overhead and about 20 man
months for local consultants at an estimated cost of US$1,500
per man month including travel, subsistence and overhead. For
the overseas training, about 120 man months are required at an
estimated cost of $10,000 per man month. The total estimated
cost for training is about US$1.4 million.
48.      The training program is expected to start during the second quarter
of mFY88, when the necessary equipment would have been purchased.



- 94 -
ANNEX 4.03
INDIA
OIL Project
Incrnenotal Production Due to Secondary Recovery
.......................................
(million WT. Crude Oil)
Estimated Production                  (c)                        Incremental Production
*---------     .    C (b) WI In*Fitt                             .
(Ca) wI Water and    Drillino and                 Due To           Due To In-Fill
Year    w/ No Investments   Gsn Injection   Pattern Flood               InJection           & Flooding          Total
1986/87              1.58      1.82              1.82                        0.24                  0              0.24
1987/88              1.29      1.64              1.64                        0.35                  0              0.35
1988/89              1.06      1.51              1.51                        0.45                  0              0.45
1989/90              0.86      1.39              1.39                        0.53                  0              0.53
1990/91              0.71      1.39              1.45                        0.68               0.06              0.74
1991/92              0.58       1.5              1.68                        0.92               0.18               1.1
1992/93              0.47       1.7              1.92                        1.23               0.22              1.45
13  /94              0.39       1.8              2.06                        1.41               0.26              1.67
1994/95              0.32       1.7              2.01                        1.38               0.31              1.69
1996/96              0.26       1.6              1.87                        1.34               0.27              1.61
1996/97              0.22       1.5              1.73                        1.28               0.23              1.51
1997/98              0.18       1.4               1.6                        1.22                0.2              1.42
1998/99              0.14       1.3              1.47                        1.16              0.17               1.33
1999/00              0.12       1.2              1.35                        1.08              0.15               1.23
2000/01               0.1       1.1              1.21                           1               0.11              1.11
01102               0.05         1              1.09                        0.95               0.09              1.04
02/03               0.05       0.9              0.95                        0.85              0.05                0.9
03/04               0.05      0.8                0.8                        0.75                  0              0.75
04/05               0.05       0.7               0.7                        0.65                  0              0.65
05/06               0.05       0.5               0.5                        0.45                  0              0.45
TOTAL:            8.53    26.45              28.75                       17.92               2.3              20.22
NOTES:  Nahorkatiya & Noran fields
a) qesed on perfornance to date and equipment currently in place.
b) With full scale implemmntetion of injection schemes (8400 KLPD water injectfon and
approximately 1 MMCND of gas njection.)
c) With fn-filler drilling and pattern water flood (Additional 4000 KLPO water flood).



- 95 -
INDIA                                    AMNEX 4.04
... ......                                ..........
OIL Project                                 Page I Of 2
.......                                    ... .........
Assam Gas Production
Gan Re-Injectfon/xFtwack Scheme
(MM)
Excess Flared                     Average Additional Gan
Narket Offtake    without         Reduction        Saved and Utilized with
Associated   Internal   without        Re-fnJection     in Flaring       Ro-injectton and
Year    Gas Production    Use  Re-injection      or Power         w/ Re-InJection  Power Plant (NinilmL) b/
1986/87     4.8              1.4      1.7              1.7                0                0
1987/88     4.7              1.5      2.4              0.8              0.8              0.4
198/89      4.6              1.5      2.4              0.7              0.7              0.4
1919/90     4.6              1.5      2.4              0.7              0.7              0.4
1990/91     4.6              1.5      2.4              0.7              0.7              0.4
1991/92     4.4              1.5      2.4              0.5              0.5              0.4
1992/93     4.5              1.5      2.4              0.6              0.6              0.4
3/94        4.5              1.5      2.4              0.6              0.6              0.4
1994/95     4.5              1.5      2.4              0.6              0.6              0.4
1996/96     4.7              1.5      2.4              0.8              0.8              0.4
1996/97     4.6              1.5      2.4              0.7              0.7              0.4
1997/98     4.6              1.5      2.4              0.7              0.7              0.4
1996/99     4.6              1.5      2.4              0.7              0.7              0.4
1999/00     4.6              1.5      2.4              0.7              0.7              0.4
2000/01     4.7              1.5      2.4              0.8              0.8              0.4
01/02      4.6              1.5      2.4              0.7              0.7              0.4
02/03      4.5              1.5      2.4              0.6              0.6              0.4
03/04      4.5              1.5      2.4              0.6              0.6              0.4
04/05      4.5              1.5      2.4              0.6              0.6              0.4
05/06      4.5              1.5      2.4              0.6              0.6              0.4
NOTES:
a/ Without reinjection power station could not be supplied from existing sources 40% of the time
also,
b/ Reflects average expected gas re-fnjected and re-produced on supply
shortfall days in same year, asatang only current users. Also includes low pressure gas boosted
for use on dhortfall days. Could increase to 0.8    wiCtD with development of new users.



- 96 -
ANNEX 4.04
INDIA                                     ..........
..... .. Page 2 of 2
OtL Project                                 ...........
Assam Gas Suply/oemand 0alances
Associated Gas Productton                 Utitizatlon
...............................             ...........*           Flared as
Internal  Total          Committed Actual          Percentage of
OIL    OIGC      Use     Net             Offtake Offtake Flared  Production
.... ............         .     ...........   .... . ......  . .......... .... .... ....... ..........
1970-71    2.48    0.04    0.17    2.35               n/a      0.67    1.68       71X
1975-76    3.64    0.45    0.64    3.45               n/a      1.49    1.96       57X
1960-81    1.94    0.26    0.48    1.72               2.46    1.29    0.43        25%
1984-85     4.5    1.14    0.78    4.86               2.77    1.92    2.94        60X
1989 90     4.6      1.7    2.09    4.21                 4     3.5    0.71        17X  (Re-injected)
1994-95     4.5      1.7     2.2        4             4 -8       4        0
NOTES:  Net production not of shrinkae, condensate, UG extraction, fnjection, and ffold use
Production beyond 1990 does not fnelude potentiat additional 2.5 MMCND of free gas
Com= ted Offtake refers to peak daily comfitted supply
Actual refers to average actual daily offtake
Up to 8 NID  of potentlal users Identified for mid-1990s - sme on interuptible basis.
Composition of uwer Is   s fo tlos:                              Potential Additionat Users Beyond 1990
Existing Committed:      ASEB (Power)                   0.8         HPC (Chamicats)      0.12
*-----------------       HFCL (Fertilizer)             1.76         CEA/ASEB (Power)     2.17
APL                          0.14         Tea                   0.82
IOC Vigbof (Refinery)        0.22         Pltywood             0.25
Tea Gardens, etc.            0.36         Domestic             0.67
*------------                ..---        Nawup III (Power)   1.24 (?)
3.28         ...      .           ..
5.27
Power Plant (CEA 1968)        0.8
c



INDIA
OIL INDIA PROJECT
Seismic Survey and Drilling Program
Y_A _    1967     96889                499        4994      4992       45S3       494
QURiAS  2 344   2 344 * 21314  1213144 121344  42 34 4  2 3 4  1 2 314
I Lu   I +  I +  AT<T T I T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hflh          I    I T I I T I
RANNI                                                                          2_  _4  T
IewTc IH -,t y4                                                                 1 1 - 
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lUng~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A. KUMORA N
DrOV                          I~~~~~~~~II   
ErDept                                                                                                             1
19wJvt87                                                                                                         *°



INDIA
OIL INDIA PETROLEUM PROJECT
Implementatlon Schedule (Procurement)
YEARS     $966         196"         196e          $969         $990           $          $992          993          994
_ ACIIMIQES            _               2  3  4 _   2         _  _ _ 3  4-  -4 -212 14                         | 2  | 3  1 34 *   2 1 3      -4  1  2  3 4
t               ~~QAIERI 2 341;niM; 23124   234234234234234                                                                                   23
A.   EXPLORATON:
-Xumchxli
won Moteiil & Conrumables
B.   PRODUCInm MAPROV4EWEN
WOVRK OVER aG HIREo
Weml Matefl &  Consu_a les                                                                        _
C.  -O.R.-EQUIPMENT & SER_CES
0.   SEISMC EQUIPMENr
E.   LBORATORY EQUII_ENT
F.   TRANNG & C0SULTANCY SERVICES
P Old PpuF>ok        C Conloct Awcvd
T Tender DocumeT     D Mactd & EwOrnwn Devby
BsM   D qxart                                                                    B 1it Due             M       _dMo 0toCmen      d Awmt d
Febuary 1987                                                                                                                                   WMMd lmiIc-3O899*



- 99 -
ANNEX 4.06
INDIA                                                         .....
OIL India Petrotlum Project
Project Cost Table by Year
(USt millions)
Component                                           86/87      87/a8     88/89    89/90    90/91         91/92    92193        93/94       TOTAL
1. Production Iwprovemmnt Schemes
A.lnjection & Artificial Lift                           6.6      17.8       11.5       10.8      22.6       12.4       12.4        0.0      94.2
B. in-filt  Drilling                                    0.0       0.0        3.4       15.1      21.8       28.0       13.6       6.3       88.1
C. workovers                                           11.3      21.1       14.3       14.9      20.7       11.9       11.2       9.0      114.5
D. E.O.R. Pilots                                        0.0      13.1       11.4        S.1       7.3        0.7        2.9       0.7       41.1
..............                                       ....   .   .....     .....     . ....  .... .  ....  .... .  ....  .... .   ...   .   ........ ..... ..... ..... .....
Sub- total                                         18.0      52.1       40.6       45.9       72.5      53.0       40.0       16.0    338.0
11. Gas Development
A. Injection - Flowback System                          6.8       4.5        3.3        1.4        1.4       1.4        0.0       0.0       18.7
8. Associated Gas Supply Network                        0.0       6.4        0.5        0.5       0.5        0.S        0.0       0.0        8.2
.............                                       ....   .  .....     .....      . ....  .... .  ....  .... .  ....  .... .  ....       ........ ..... ..... ..... .....
Sub-total                                           6.8       10.9       3.7        1.8        1.8        1.8       0.0        0.0      26.9
Ill.  Exploration
A. Three Deep Gas Tests   Asasm                         0.0       4.8        7.6       12.4       9.7        0.0        0.0       0.0       34.5
B. Rajasthan Gas Exploration                           16.0       5.8       14.2      14.4        3.7        0.0        0.0       0.0       54.2
..............                                                  ....   .  ..........                     . ....  .... .  ....  .... .  ....  ........ ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
Sub-total                                          16.0      10.7       21.7       26.9       13.5       0.0        0.0        0.0      88.7
IV. Technical Equipment, Assistance, ard Training
A. Facilities for Seismic Data Processing               0.0      10.2        2.6        0.6       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       13.5
s. Training .                                          0.0        0.4        1.2        1.2       0.6        0.4        0.0       0.0        4.0
C. R&D Equipment                                       0.0        2.3        1.0        1.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        4.3
...... .........  ....                                          .....                .....     . .p ....  ....  .... .  ....    ........ ..... ..... ..... .....
Sub-total                                           0.0      13.0        4.9        2.8        0.6       0.4        0.0        0.0      21.7
...................                                   ..........          .....      .....      .. ....  .....  ....  .....  ....  .....  .... .. ..... ..... ..... ..... ..
Totat - Sas  Costs                                    40.8       86.6       71.0      ?7.4       88.4       55.2      40.0       16.0    475.3
....................  
Physical Contingencies 8 10X                           4.1        8.7        7.1       7.7        8.8        5.5        4.0       1.6       47.5
Price Contingencies                                    2.1        6.5        6.8       8.8       14.2       10.3       8.6        3.9       61.2
........................................              . ...  .    ..... .   ....   .  ....   . .. ........ ....                  ............. ..... ..... ..... ..
Total Project Costs                                   47.0      101.7      84.8       94.0      111.5       71.0      52.6       21.5      584.0
................... ..........nclsv  of ta . .     ties o      $77.  millio
a/ Inclusfve of taxes and duties of    S77.4 mittion



- 100 -
ANNEX 4.07
INDIA                                          .....
OIL Indio Petroletu Project
Project Costs by Component
Rupees millitns                   USs millIfons
Foreign                            Foreign
Component                          Local  Exchange Total              Local  Exchange Total
.................................................  .....  ..........    .....  . ........  ........    ..............
1. Production Improvement Schemes
A.Injection & Artificial Lift       so5.1   716.8  1224.9               39.1    55.1    94.2
C. In-ftll Drilling                 673.6   471.6   1145.2              51.8    36.3    88.1
C. Workovers                        905.7   583.3   1489.0              69.7    44.9   114.5
D. E.O.R. Pilots                    348.8   185.9   534.7               26.8    14.3    41.1
..............                    ..............   .... ......  ........ ....  . . .... ......  ......... ...... .............. ...
Sub-total                       2436.2  1957.6  4393.8              187.4   150.6   338.0
II. Gas Development
A. Injection - Flowback System      150.2    92.5   242.7               11.6      7.1     18.7
8. Associated Gas Supply Network     80.0    26.3   106.4                6.2      2.0      8.2
Sub-total                        230.3   118.8   349.1               17.8      9.1     26.9
ItI. Exploration
A. Three Deep Gas Tests - Assam     188.3   260.8   449.1               14.5    20.1    34.5
B. Rajasthan Gas Exploration        258.6   445.9   704.5               19.9    34.3    54.2
..............                    ...... ........  .... ......  ...... . .. ......  ...... ... ...... ......... ......... .........
Sub*total                        446.9   706.7  1153.6               34.4    54.4    88.7
IV. Technical Equipment, Assistance, end Training
A. Facilities: Seismic Data Proces   99.8    75.4   175.2                7.7      5.8    13.5
S. Training                          31.9    19.5    51.4                2.5      1.5      4.0
C. R&D Equipment                     29.9    26.0    55.9                2.3      2.0      4.3
..............                    ...... ........  .... ......  ...... . .. ......  ...... ... ...... ..... ......... ......... ...
Subrtotal                        161.6   120.9   282.5               12.4      9.3    21.7
...................
Total - Base Costs                 3275.0  2904.1  6179.1              251.9   223.4   475.3
,...................
Physical Contingencies S 10X        327.5   290.4   617.9               25.2    22.3    47.5
Price Contingencies                 618.5   176.6   795.1               47.6    13.6    61.2
...................    ......  ......  ......                         ......  ......  ......
Totat Project Costs                4221.0  3371.1   7592.1             324.7   259.3   584.0
................... ..........uu         wu minus..                    I ua
a/ Inclusive of taxes and duties of   $77.4 miliRon



- 101 -
ANNEX 4.08
INDIA
OIL INDIA PETROLEUM PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT1 (US$ MILLION)
IBRD Fiscal Year        Quarters         Amount Disbursed              Cumulative
Amount      X
1987/88                      I                  7.5                    7.5      5.0
II                 4.2                    11.7      8.0
III                 5.0                    16.7    12.0
IV                 3.3                    20.0    14.0
1988189                      I                  7.0                   27.0    19.0
II                 7.5                    34.5    25.0
III                 8.0                    42.5    30.0
IV                 5.9                    48.4    35.0
1989/90                      I                  7.5                   55.9    40.0
II                 8.0                    63.9    46.0
III                 8.5                    72.4    52.0
IV                 5.8                    78.2    56.0
1990/91                      I                  5.6                   83.8    60.0
II                 5.7                    89.5    64.0
III                 5.4                    94.9    68.0
IV                 5.6                   100.5    72.0
1991/92                      I                 4.0                   104.5    75.0
II                 4.0                   108.5    78.0
III                 4.0                   112.5    80.0
IV                 3.8                   116.3    83.0
1992793                      I                 3.0                   119.3    85.0
II                 3.2                   122.5    88.0
III                 3.4                   125.9    90.0
IV                 3.0                   128.9    92.0
1993/94                      I                 3.0                   131.9    94.0
II                 3.0                   134.9    96.0
III                 3.0                   137.9    99.0
IV                 2.1                   140.0   100.0
I/ This isbursement profile conforms essentially with the Bank statistical
profile as of July 1, 1986, for similar projects (i.e. petroleum,
refineries, pipelines, energy conservation, etc.). However, this
disbursement profile shows a slower disbursement rate during the first two
years of the project life because of possible delay that could occur
during procurement for the exploration component.



- 102 -
ANUX 5.01
INDIA
OIL INDIA PETROLEUM PROJECT
PRINCIPLES OP ACCOUNTING OP OIL INDIA LTD
Unit of Accountis
1.       The unit of accounting is a basin coverted by a petroleum exploration
licence (PELW or a mining lease (XIL).
Explorat ion and Geophysical Surveys
2.       a.   Geological and geophysical survey costs and exploratory drilling
costs in a PEL area are amortized over three years. The amorti-
sation relates to the intangible costs only and the tangible
costs, i.e. the casings and tubinga are treated as assets and
depreciated as per income tax rules.
b.   Geological and geophysical survey costs and exploratory drilling
in an MEL area are charged off fully in the year of incidence in
the same maner of treatment for tangible and intangible costs
as discussed above.
Development Drilling
3.       Development drilling is undertaken for exploitation of the full
potential of a basin upon conversion of a petroleum exploration licence into a
mining lease. The entire cost thereon in the N/L area are thus charged off
fully in the year of incidence, in the same manner of treatment for tangible
and intangible costs as discussed above.
Production Costs
4.       The treatment of production costs is similar to drilling costs as
discussel above depending upon whether they are incidenced in PEL area or an
N/L area.
Research and Development
S.       Research and Development costs, including acquisition of capital
assets, are charged against income in the year of incidence.
Depreciation
6.       Plant and machinery and other capital items are stated at cost and
depreciated using a diminishing balance method at the rates set forth in the
Income Tax Act and Rules.
Inventories
7.       a.   Stock of crude oil are valued at production cost.



- 103 -
ANNMX 5.01
Page 2 of 2
b.   Inventories of stores and spares are valued on average cost.
The average cost method of inventory valuation is used for
costing purposes.
Foreign Current Transactions
8.       All expenditures incurred and liabilities undertaken in the form of
loans drawn and/or other liabilities are accounted for at the exchange rate
prevailing on the day of the transaction. A year end adjustment for changes
in the foreign exchange rates in respect of outstanding liabilities is made in
the profit and loss account.
Works in Progress
9.       All capital items purchased during the year and not commissioned for
operation in the course of the year are shown as works in progress.
Interest fthrges
10.      All interest expenses are charged off to the profits during the year
of accrual.
Taxes
I1.      Taxes are provided on income as determined after adjustment for
amortization, depreciation and investment allowance in accordance with the
Income Tax Act 1961.
-.
.   . ~ ~ F'
-I



- 104 -
ANNEX 5.02
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
OIL INDIA PETROLEUM PROJECT
ASUMPTIoNs UNDERLYING FINANCIAL ANALYsIs
Exploration
1.       a.   Assam & Arunchal Pradesh Basins
It is assumed that 60X of the exploration activities in these
basins would be in the M/L areas upto 1989-90 and 401 there-
after.
b.   Geological and Geophysical Surveys have been treated as 501 in
PEL areas and balance in M/L areas.
C.   Exploration and Geophysical Surveys in all other areas have been
treated as if in PEL areas.
Developing Drilling
2.       Development Drilling is envisaged only in Assam and Arunachal Pradesh
and it has been treated as if incidenced in M/L areas.
Production
3.       a.   Crude Oil production has been forecast only from known fields in
Assam Arunachasl Pradesh. No incremental production from other
basins has been taken into account.
b.   Production of gas has been treated in the same manner as
discussed in para (a) above.
c.   Production of LPG has been taken into account in respect to the
existing plant only.
Sales Price
4.       a.   Crude Oil
Price of Crude Oil has been fixed by Government at Rs 1513 per
metric tonne for 34°, API. For the purpose of the financial
forecast, Rs 1513 per metric tonne has been assumed throughout*
the period FY86-94.
b.   Gas
Average gas price assumed to be Rs 230/1CM for FY86 and
Rs 500/MCM thereafter. (Gas sales to power plant estimated at
Rs 875/1MCM).



- 105 -
A*333 5.02
Page 2 of 3
Duties ai4d Taxes
S.       a.   Crude Oil
i)   Royalty - g  192 per metric tonne on production
ii)   Ceos - Rs 300 per metric tonne on sales
iii) Sales Tax - Is S8 per metric tonne on sales (included
in the sales price at 42)
b.   Gas
i) Royalty - at 101 of well head cost worked back from sales
price.
Income Tax
6.       At 501 of the net profit after adjustment of amortization,
depreciation.
Depreciation
7.       a.   Plant and Machinery at 33.1/3Z for surface equipment; 100l   for
equipent below the surface; and 501 for pollution controls and
energy saving devices, all calculated on diminishing balance
method.
b.   Industrial Buildings at 101 on diminishing balance method.
c.   Housing at 251 on diminishing balance method.
d.  furniture at 101 on diminishing balance method.
Investment Allowance
8.       ii)  1987-88 and beyondt at 201 of the net profits after adjustment
of amortization and depreciation provided such amount is
expended on capital equipments, or dsposited for future use in
the Industrial Bank of India.
Import Duties
9.       Customs and Import Duties on foreign purchases are in the range of
401-60X ad valorum. Offshore projects are exempt from this.
Excise Duties                                          I
10.      On indigenous purchases the excise duties are in the range of SZ-
lO. However, upon promotion of indigenous industry for import substitution
these are exempt.



- 106 -
AMNI! 5.02
Page 3 of 3
Capital Outla!
11.      For the purpose of financial forecast. it is assuad that 60X of the
capital outlays and carry forward work-in-progress would be commissioned in
each year.



IN1DIA
OIL INDIA PETROLEtU PROJECT
0OIL INDIA LIMITED
(tn Mittlion Is)
ACTUALI                                               PROUCI@N
Fiscal Toaw¶6                    198    4 198 ¶9   66 19          67"S   196      1989    1990    1991      1992     193    1994
sales Volino
crude         (m tams)            2.80     2.81     2.73     2.63    2.81     2.94     3.15     3.20     3.56    3.90     4.63     4.77     4.72
Ga"           (00111)           596.00   N99,00   608.00   636.00   977.00   977.00  1109.00  1269.00  1269.00  '1269.00  1269.00  126.00  190.00
Price
Crude     ~~(Rstetn)          1,201    1,369    1,360    1,380   1I51     1,513    1,513    1,513    1,513    1,513    1,513    1,513    1,513
Gas       ~~~(Is/acm           231      231      235      225      230      Soo     500      Soo      S00    5Su        Soo    5so       5W
Crude                           3,313.5  3,877.8  3,761.0  3,634.0  4,251.5  4,448.2  4,766.0  4,611.6  5,386.3  5,900.7  7,005.2  7,217.0  7,141.4
ASS                              138.    138.7   143.5   149.7   224.6   48B.5   554.5   634.S   634.5   634.5   634.5   634.5   634.5
LPG                               12.3    43.4    54.5    69.9    73.5    88.0    68.0    88.0    88.0    88.0    88.0    88.0    88.0
Crute Toransprt                  152.8   160.5   161.4   159.3   244.6   328.3   313.6   231.1   233.4   197.6   22.2   217.4    160.
Other fin                         44.4    52.4    S6.3   ¶36.4                         55.5   15.5   163.1   126.9   130.0    139.9   151.2
Total                         3,711.1  4,292.8  4,176.7  4,`149.3  4,794.2  5,353.0  5,777.6  5,968.7  6,505.3  6,947.7  8,078.9  8,386.8  6,195.7
Less: CesWloyatty/Sates Tax    647.9  1,176.1  1,137.4  1,099.0  1,561.3  1,654.8  1,77.9  1,813.0  2.010.?  2,197.3  2,59.4  2,675.0  2,647.2     .
Net Sales Revemie             3,01i.2  3, 116'.'7  3,039.3  3,050.3  3,232.9  3,698.2  3,999.7  4,155.7  4,494.6  4,750.4  5,480.5  5,451.8  5,546.5
Cosrating expaens                215.0   257.6   309.7   333.5   516.7   683.6   978.2   936.4   950.7   999.4  1,0Y0.7  1,146.2  1,146.6
Crude                           17.0    27.      224'   24'.7   442;.4'   587.6   876'   827.5   837.5   68.            M5.6  1,021.9  1,040.0
Gan                             32.0    29.3    41.1    39.5    51.8    73.0    77.9    83.3    86.3    89.3    90.6    93.5              WS.
LPG                              5.0    11.2    16.2    19.3    22.5    23.0    24.3    25.6    26.9    28.2    29.5    30.8    32.1
Drilling In N.L. erm             129.8   178.9   262.4   325.1   291.9   412.4   559.2   546.1   877.3  179.4   811.2   840.4   748.2
Trnsoportatfon cost of crude      65.3    85.2   107.6   116.6   146.3    159.6   190.3   156.8   183.7   176.2   221.3   259.0   20.1
kvrthstIon of oxplo exp          195.0   244.8   374.7   453.2   610.5   677.1   601.6   376.0   411.5   621.9   661.2   901.3   943.1
Dapmecition           (a)        194.3   325.1   507.9   573.4  1,013.8  1,454.0  1,374.S  1,155.0  1,S56.1  1,S7S.6  1,567.6  1,602.5  1,544.7
Other Eiwo                         1.6    (0.3)      0.3     0.4
Total bpwmsee                  60.0  1,091.3  1,562.6  1,802.2  2,579.2  3,386.7  3,70.8  3,170.3  3,979.3  4,142.5  4,532.2  4,752.4  4,617
Income Before Interet ud Tame    2,242.2  2,025.4  1,476.7  1,248.1   d53.?   311.5   295.9    95.4    515.3   607.9   948.3   899.4   943.7
Iterest                             52.2    53.2    61.5    "4.8    61.1    78.8   129.9   189.4   225.5   242.2   311.1   227.2   20.6
Tome                             1,452.3  1,317.6   706.1   501.1    47.4    38.5    8B.7   335.1   109.9   138.    279.2   267.9   295.6
Set Incme                          757.7   654.6   709.1   682.2   545.        1942      7.2    409    180.0   207.2   428.0   404.3   438.5
opmtres tln atio                    0.26     0.36    0.52     0.62     0.60     0.92    0.94     0.79     0.92     0.90     0.85     0.66    .0.5      I
Iteturn an Ave. Assets    (b)       0.42     0.32    0.29     0.24     0.17     0.07     0.04    0.10     0.06     0.07     0.11     0.10    0.10
Notes: (a) inctudes dew oletton of tangibt, costs retating to exptoratory driltifng.
(b) (net fncm*  interest) / (current assets + net fixed assets --- average in operation)



INDIA
CIL INDIA PETROLEUM4 PROJECT
OIL INDIA LIMITED
BALANCE SHEETS CFYs 82 - 94)
(in mittion Rts)
ACTUALS                                                 PRODJECJIONS
Ftscat Year          1962     198      198      198      196      198      1968     1989     1990     1991      1992     199      1994
.. .  . . .    . .    .. .     . . .     . .     .....    . . .     . . .    . . .
ASSETS
Fixed Assets                       2,628.7  3,028.2  3,731.0  4,677.3  6,100.8  8,134.0  9,443.3 10,336.0 12,279.2 13,839.3 15.30,5.1 -16,905.9 18,381.8
Less: Accwulated Depreciation      1,855.2  2,176.2  2,682.2  3,239.2  4,253.0  5,707.0  7,081.5  8,236.5  9,M926 11,368.2 12,936.0 14,536.5  16.083.2
Ne Fixed ASSets                  77.5    852.0  1,;ii8.8  1,438'.1  1,847.8  2,427.0O  2,361'.8'  2,099'.5'  2,486.6'  2,471'.1  2,369.   2,367.4  2,298.6'
CapitaL Work in Progress            423.7    615.2    819.5    864.3    681.0    579.3    351.5    207.3    488.5    514.7    632.3    621.1    670.8
Exploratio.n Expenditures            194.1    340.5    468.8    476.5    729.0    759.2    391.9    202.5    604.7    848.4    891.5    930.3    969.0
Current Asstet
Inwentories                       651.4    663.2    698.9  1,009.8    950.0    900.0    850.0    950.0    950.0    950.0    950.0    950.0    950.0
Accounsts  reevsble                349.0    465.9    489.8   5S0.4    524.0    564.1    477.1    376.0    442.6    461.       504.9    5`13.7    505.2
Cauh wd time deposits              174.6    241.7    261.2    69.8    262.9    295.5  1,652.0 .2,972.8  1,896.0  1,700.5  1,638.0  2,099.6  2,191.6
Loer  wid edeewnc                  119.9    115.0    400.8   334.6   309.4    289.5    270.7    232.9    205.0    205.0   M05.         20.0    205.0
Other current assts                 0.2       0.2      2.5      0.2                       50.0    196.2    m8.S    320.1    448.2    110.8    267.7
Ttota Current Assets           1251 1,486.0  1,853.2  1,964.8  2,06.   2,049.1  3,299.8  4,77.   3,777.   3,3.7'  3,74.1  3,7.1   4,119.7
TOTAL ASSETS              2,686.4  3,293.7  4,190.3  4,743.7  5,304.1  5,814.6  6,405.0  7,237.2  7,356.9  7,470.9  7,639.0  7,797.9  8,056.1      i-a
LIABILITIES & EaUITY
Share Capital                       280.0    280.0    280.0    280.0    280.0    280.0    280.0    290.0    280.0    280.0    280.0    28.0    280.0
Reserves ard Surplus               1,183.7  1,803.5  2,654.7?  3,29.0  3,814.8  3,967.0  4,002.2  4,421.2  4,559.1  4,724.3  5,110.3  5,472.6  5,869.1
Total NOWit                    1,463'.7'  2,083'.5'  2,934 .7  3,575.0'  4,094.8  4,247'.0  4,282'.2'  4,701'.2'  4839'.1  5,004'.3'  5,390.3  5,752.6  6,149.1
Long Term LiabfI fitfes             447.1    511.7    596.0    526.9   477.4    810.7  1,366.9  1,641.8  1,657.1  1,494.5  1,309.4  1,301.7  1,165.3
Current Liabilities
Current portfon of long-term debt  37.6      61.3     61.3    124.?    141.9    168.6    169.2    308.8    277.2    391.4    359.4    163.7    163.?
Accruind interest                   15.9    14.7      13.2    12.0    10.0        8.4      6.7      5.5      3.5      0.7
Accounts payable                   419,.4    323.8    537.8    446.6    538.0    538.0    538.0    538.0    538.0    338.0    538.0    538.0    538.0
Provision for dividends            302.7    298.7     %.5      58.5    42.0    42.0       42.0     42.0     42.0     42.0     42.0     42.0      42.0
Total Current Liabilities        775.6,   698.5,   67.8     61.8,   731.9,   757".0    755.9,   894.3    807       7.      939.4,   743.7'   743.7
uU.uU  ~ ~ ~   uuin....  .....  .....             .....    .....    -----    ....     .....    ....      ...
TOTAL LtABILtTIES & EQUITY  2,686.4  3,293.7  4,203.5  4,743.7  5,304.1  5,814.7  6,405.0  7,237.3  7,356.9  7,470.9  7,639.0  -7,798.0  8,058.1
===a    ==*=    =am==    ====  am==            CCz===~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'5
Current Ratio,                       1.67     2.13     2.76     3.06     2.80      2.71     4.37     5.29     4.39     3.74     3."9     5.22     5.S4
Debt/Eqity Ratio                    23177    20/80    17(83    13187    10/90    16184    24(76    26(74    26/74    23j7      20/8      I8BM     16(84     .5
Note: Total assets may not eQuat tiabitities & equfty due to roundings.



INDIA
OIL INDtA PETROLEUM PROJECT
...........................
OIL INDIA LIMITED
PROJECTED SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS (FYs 86 - 94)
.......... .................... ......... .............. .............
(In Ntllion Rs)
1986     1967      1988      1989      1990      1991      19        1993      1994
...    ....       .....    .....    .....    .....    .....    . ...
SOURCES
Income Before Interest (After Tax)                   606.4    273.0    207.2    650.3    405.5    449.4    669.1    631.5    648.1
Add:
Depreciation                              1,013.8  1,454.0  1,374.5   1,155.0   1,556.1   1,573.6  1,567.8  1,602.5  1,544.7
Amertization                               610.5    677.1    601.6    376.0    411.5    621.9    861.2    904.3    943.1
Drilling In N.L. Area                      291.9    412.4    SS9.2    546.1    877.3    769.4    811.2    840.4    748.2
Lass:
DIvidends                                   (42.0)   (42.0)    (42.0)   (42.0)   (42.0)    (42.0)   (42.0)   (42.0)   (42.0)
.....    .....   . . .....   .....  .  . .....   .....      .. .....           ................................... ..
Interrnal Cash Generation                      2,480.6  2,774.5  2,700.5  2,685.4  3,208.4  3,374.3  3,867.3  3,936.7  3,842.1
Lon TerM Lon                                          92.4    501.9    725.4    583.7    292.5    228.8    174.2    156.0             27.3
Inc (Dec) In Accrued Interest                         (2.0)    (1.6)      (1.7)    (1.2)    (2.0)       (2.8)     (0.7)      0.0       0.0
Inc (Dec) In Accts Payable                            91.4       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
TOTAL SOURCES                                  2,662 4  3,274.8  3,424.2  3,267.9  3,498.9  3,600.3  4,040.8  4,092.7  3,869.4
USES                                                                                                                                               I-
Capital Expenditure                                1,240.2  1,931.5   1,081.5    748.5  2,224.4   1,586.3  1,583.4  1,589.6  1,525.6
Exploration Expenditure                              863.0    707.3    234.3    186.6    813.7    865.6    904.3    943.1    981.8
Drilling in N.L. Area                                291.9    412.4    559.2       56.1    877.3    769.4    811.2    840.4    748.2
Debt Service
Interest                                            61.1      78.8    129.9    189.4    225.5    242.2    241.1    227.2    209.6
Prfncfpal Repaymnt                                  124.7    141.9    168.6    169.2    308.8    277.2    391.4    359.4    163.7
Total Debt Service                               185.8    220.7    298.5    358.6    534.3    S19.4    632.5    586.6    373.2
Inc (Dec) In Inventories                             (59.8)    (50.0)   (50.0)   100.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Inc (Dec) In Aects ReceivabLe                        (26.4)    40.1    (87.0)   (101.1)    66.6         18.5      43.8       8.8      (8.5)
Inc (Dac) in Other Assets                             (0.2)      0.0      50.0    146.1       87.3      36.6    128.1   (337.4)   156.9
Inc (Doe) In Loans & Advan                           (25.2)    (19.9)    (18.8)    (37.8)   (27.9)       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Inc (Doe) in Cash                                    193.1      32.7  1,356.4  1,320.9  (1,076.8)   (195.5)   (62.5)   461.6          92.2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....                  .....      ..  .....          .......... ....... ....... ....... ..................
TOAL USES                                2,662.i4   3,274.6  3,424.2  3,267.9  3,498.9  3,600.3  4,040.8  4,092.7  3,869.4
DET SERVICE COVERAGE (tims)                          13.35     12.57      9.05      7.49      6.00      6.50      6.11      6.71     10.29
0



INDIA                                                         Annex 5.06
OIL INDIA PETR0LEU PROJECT
OIL IfDIA LINITED
OIL PROIUCTIOM COST (FYS 86 - 94)
.................................
(in Nillion Rs)
1966    1987      1988    1989      1990      199"     1992    1993      19%
.....    ..... .  . .....  .....  . .. .....  ........ .....             ........ .. ............. .. ............. ..
1. Id,or1WtyediSsrw,JJorajwVDOi Dum Ffelds
New Velt Ccapetion & TesthnU                      4.41      7.33     8.54    10.00    12.16    12.79    13.42    14.05    144A
Ftowtine minten1nc                                0.93    13.71    14.79    15.87    16.96    18.04    19.12    20.20    21.29
Cit mell Seviciwfe                                59.66    93.06   106.04   109.02   112.01   115.01   118.01   121.02   124.02
Werkowrrs                                        105.18   114.A8   123.02   131.27   157.26   166.52   231.24   243.33   2S5.43
VlCrovr Servics                                   0.00    27.80    40.20    40.20    40.20    27.80       0.00     0.00     0.00
On InjectionLifting                               44.13    S1.64    S9.16    63.48    67.77    72.13    76.4      80.79    85.12
Wtwr InJectfon                                    33.86    36.91    39.92    42.93    45.94    48.96    51.98    55.00    58.02
Oft Collecting Statiors                           55.54    60.41    66.79    71.97    80.07    85.22    92.54    97.00   101.40
Weter Dispoal                                    19.74      8.12     8.53     8.94     9.34     9.75    10.15    10.56    10.97
cel lanhlou                                        1.58     1.72     1.61     2.01     2.15      2.30     2.4      2.59     2.73
.....        .....  . . .....   ..... .  . .....  ................................ .. .... .. .... .. .... 
Subtotat                                         335       41S      469      496      544       559      615      645      674
2. DOfiof Field                                            50.20    63.S0    65.80    69.10    72.40    75.70    79.00    82.30    85.00
3.  1h0Wu Field                                            57.20    76.90    96.30    99.10   101.90   104.80   107.70   110.60   113.S0
4. Prod*tion Detlmpmnt Sm   - ap Eap                        0.00     0.00   213.00    99.10   110.80   112.40   140.00   154.00   159.40
5. US Pitot Project                                         0.00    32.00    32.00    64.50      8.50    30.50     S.50    30.50     8.50
6. Osprclatian on Produotfan Asts                         322.90   4S0.60   329.10   320.30   464.50   510.40   470.00   450.40   421.0
7. DrflitWf                                               60.00  1,025.30  1,284.20 1,097.50 1,53.90  1,46.60  1,493.10  1,56.60 1,499.30
.....        .....  . . .....   ..... .  . .....  .....  . . .....   .......... ...............................
TOTAL             Es Cm)                          1,428    2,063    2,489    2,245    2,876    2,809    2,914    3,0       2.961
WVOILU D  PCWOUCTIU         Cm tons)                        2.84     2.97     3.18     3.23      3.59     3.95     4.66     4.80     4.75
SALES                                    2.81     2.94     3.1S       3.2     3.56      3.9     4.63     4.77      4.72
UNIT COST -- PUITIO  (tl cessroyaltty/sales tax)             503      695      183      695       801      715     625       633      65
LES                                    S08                790  79 0         808      720      629       637      67f
NET SALES PRICE             (eocu cesm/royatty/saLes tax)    963      963      963      963       963      963      963      963      963
61t6S PROFIT MAItIN        (RaIton)                          455      261      173      261       155      243      334      326      336



- 3.11 -
* IIA                                        AN    5.07
o.....                                     .........
OIL Projet                                   Pae I ot 3
...........                                  .......................
ProJect FInanIat Fltn  and Rat of Return
..........................................
Full Pro&actton Iq3nowt Och S
...................................
CRqiws o ml on.)
Capital                                   Incremntal         Lesn             Not Cash Flcs
-- -       In-fill                        Votu1             Ca &
Year  Injection Wrkover Drilling Op Cost  Total      Oll T(mV.)  tewnu Royalties         Pre-Tax Post-Tax
.. .. ..  ....... ....................  ....... ........... ........... ...........  .....    . ......   ...... .........    . ... .......... ........
M9O6/6T   100.5   172.1     0.0    35.9   36B.5            0.24   363.1   118.1            *63.5   -63.5
1987/8   278.7   330.4      0.0    53.8   662.9            0.35   529.6   172.2           .305.6  -305.6
1988/89   186.7   232.1    55.2    71.7   545.6            0.45   660.9   221.4            -86.2   -86.2
1989/90   181.5   250.4   253.7    87.4   773.0            0.53   801.9   260.8            231.8  -231.8
1990/91   391.0   358.2   377.2   125.7  1252.1            0.74  1119.6   364.1           -496.6  -496.6
1991/92   218.1   288.5   557.6   190.0  1254.1            1.10  16J6.3   541.2           -131.0  -131.0
1992/93   223.4   282.9   293.7   256.5  1056.5            1.45  219M.9   713.4            423.9   212.0
1993/94   138.7  263.1   203.6   295.4   900.8             1.67  2526.7   821.6            804.2   402.1
1994/95   131.5   263.1           299.0   693.6            1.69  2557.0   831.5           1031.9   516.0
1996/96   131.5   263.1           284.6   679.4            1.61  2435.9   792A             964.4   482.2
1996/97   131.5   263.1           267.1   661.7            1.51  2284.6   742.9            880.0   440.0
1997/98   131.5   263.1           251.2   645.8            1.42  2148.5   698.6             04.0   402.0
1998/99   131.5   263.1           235.3   629.9            1.33  2012.3   654.4            28.1   364.0
19¢9/00   131.5   263.1           217.6   612.2            1.23  1861.0   605.2            643.6   321.8
2000/01   131.5   263.1           198.1   592.7            1.12  1694.6   551.0            550.8   275.4
01/02    131.5   263.1           196.4   591.0            1.11  1679.4   546.1            S42.4   271.2
02/03    131.5   263.1           176.9   571.5            1.00  1513.0   492.0            449.5   224.8
03/04    131.5   263.1           176.9  571.5             1.00  1513.0   492.0            449.5   224.8
04/05    131.5   263.1           176.9   571.5            1.00  1513.0   492.0            449.5   224.8
05/06    131.5   263.1           176.9   571.5            1.00  1513.0   492.0            449.5   224.8
NOTE: See Amex 3.6 for detalls of proidction
NPV a Rs. 1991.5 m. Pre-Tax    Re.  538.0 a. Post-Tax
IRR a      29.21  Pro-Tax           17.01  Post-Tax
Approximate Productfon Cost a Rs.  m7  h1T.



- 112 -
ANNEX 5.07
INIA                                      ..........
.....                  .                  Pop 2 of 3
OIL Project                                 ...........
Projoct F1nancial Ftowm *nd Rote of Return
aes Re-Injection/FtoiWwck Schem
Inoremitl       Loss:           Not Cash Flows
(Rup   milltons)     Vota            C" &
Yetr    Capital Op costs Total        0as h(NCN) Rtvenuo  Royalties   PreoTax Post-tax
......... ................. .. .... ....  ........  ........... ......    . ........  . ......    . .......... ........
1986/87    94.4           94.4                     0.0    0.0            .94.4  .94.4
1967W88   166.5          166.5                     0.0    0.0           .166.5  *166.5
1908/89    ST.5    7.4   64.9              146   127.8    12.8            50.1   25.0
1989/90    28.0    7.6   35.6              146   127.8   12.8             79.4   39.7
1990/91    28.8    7.9   36.7              146   127.8   12.8             78.3   39.2
1991/92    29.3    8.0   37.3              146   127.8    12.8            77.7   38.9
1992/9    30.0    8.2    38.2              146   127.8    12.8            76.8   38.4
1993/94    30.0    8.2   38.2              146   127.8    12.8            76.8   38.4
1994I 5    30.0    8.2   38.2              146   127.8    12.8            76.8   38.4
1996/96    30.0    8.2    38.2             146   127.8    12.8            76.8   38.4
1996/97    30.0    8.2   38.2              146   127.    12.8             76.8   38.4
1997/8    30.0    8.2    38.2              146   127.8    12.8            76.8   38.4
1996/99    30.0    8.2    38.2             14    127.8   12.8             76.8   38.4
1999/00    30.0    8.2    38.2             146   127.8   12.8             76.8   38.4
2000/01    30.0    8.2    38.2             146   127.8    12.8            76.8   38.4
01/02    30.0    8.2    38.2              14    127.8    12.8            76.8   38.4
02/03    30.0    8.2   38.2               14    127.8   12.8             76.8   38.4
03/04    30.0    8.2   38.2               146   127.8   12.8 ,           76.8   38.4
04/05    30.0    8.2    38.2              146   127.8   12.8             76.8   38.4
05/06    30.0    8.2   38.2               146   12.8    12.8             76.8   38.4
NOTE: S  Asennsx 3.7 for production infoumtion
Op. Costs calculated at 5X of capital costo eacluding ccqweesion service
NPV   RS.  280.2 m. Pro-Tax        28.4 . Post-Tax
hRR a      24.9X  Pro-Tax          11.8X  Post-Tax
Approxfmte Production Cost:   Re. 504.31 /MCM



- 113 -
AmmE 5.07
IIA                                                            .........
Page 3 of 3
OIL Project
Project Financral Analysis
..........................
Sensitivity nalysis
....................
3sse   Oil Price   Capital and         Olt      Ol    Average Cost of Production
Case   Constant in   Op.Costs         Prices   Prices  (3 10X discount rate)
Real Terms      Up SOX          +25K      *25             (RB.)
.................................................................................................................
I                                                                    I
Secondary Recovery    Pre-Tax |              29X       47X        2K                K        2X           Rs.   mrmT.
Schemes              Post-Tax I            17X       32K                       53X
I                                                                    I
Mms Re-inJection       Pro-Tax              25X       32K        i1X            34X        1SX        j  Rs. 500/NC
Scheme               Post-Tax|             12K       17X        3X              17K        5X
.................. ........................................I.                                                .



- 114 -
ANNEX 6.01
INDIA                                                    ..........
OIL Project
AssUmptiomns Undelying Economic Analysis
.......................................
DISCOUNT RATE: 101 Is assumed throughout.
.............
COSTS: Capital Costs: Project cost estimates net of taxes and duties, but including
10* physical contingencies
Operating Costs: Estimated on the basis of knIm recurrent costs for caqwpssion service,
5X p.s. maintainence costs for other capital Items, knomn consumables costs for Injection,
and current incremental production costs for output from worked-over wells.
BENEFITS: Value of Oil    Crude oil as valued on the basis the cif cost of isported ol, adjusted for domestic transport
*-------                   The project was evaluated using the Bankls ofl price forecasts as shown below, and also using
constant oil prices of $10 and $20 par barrel.
AdJusted for     AdJusted for           Corresponding
Oil Price         Transport         Internel Transport   Value of Natural
Projections        cif Bombay       to Eastern Ref ineries     eas
Tear  (const.'85 S/bbt.) (S/mT.)            (S/1T.)            (S/NCO)   CS/mf)
1986/87   S11.90           $93.18            $94.68             W69.46   $1.97
1987/88   $13.70          $106.14           $107.64            *80.82    $2.30
1988/89  $15.20           $116.94           S118.44            $90.30   $2.57
1989/90  $15.10           $116.22           $117.72            $89.67   $2.55
1990/91   S14.90          $114.78           $116.28            $88.40   $2.51
1994/95  $17.40           $132.78           $134.28           $104.19    $2.96
2000.    $21.10            $159.42           $160.92           $127.56   $3.62
OTES:   International transport at $7.50/mT. a $1.00/bbt.
Domestic transport at S 5/ton port to refinery,
less $3.50/ton ssam-refinery CS.45/bbl.)
Value of Gas: Assuimng fuel oll replacement. InternatIonal fuel oll prices calculated on the basis of
fIxed refinery margins on $21.50/tome, plus $15/ton for trnsport and distribution,
converted to gas values on the basis of thermal equivalence using 1.14 NCN a lmT. f.o.
On this basis S10/bbl. crude a $2.00/mcf W, and $20/bbl. crude a $3.60/mwf gas.



- 115 -
INDIA                                     ANNEX 6.02
OIL Project
lommic Analysis
....... ....................... 
Full Production Iiptovament 8chemes
(UN mill5on)
Capital                                   Incremental
.... *    in-fittll                     Volume                   Net
Year  Injectfon iorkoww Drilling Op Costs Total     Oil t(NOT.)  Vatue          mnef Its
1986/87    5.4    10.5     0.0     0.0    15.8             0.00     0.0            15.8
1987/88    16.6    19.9    0.0     3.8    40.3             0.35    37.7            -2.6
1988/89    10.8    13.4    2.9     4.9    31.9             0.45    53.3            21.4
1989/0    10.0    14.1    12.9     5.7    42.7             0.53    62.4            19.7
1990/91    21.7    19.6    18.7    8.0    67.9             0.74    86.0            18.1
1991/92    12.0    11.2    24.2    11.9   59.3             1.10   127.9            68.6
1992/93    12.0    10.5    11.9    15.7   50.0             1.45   168.6           118.6
1993/94    7.3     8.5     4.6    18.0   38.4              1.67   194.2           155.8
1994/95    7.3    14.6             18.3   40.2             1.69   196.5           156.3
1996/96    7.3    14.6             17.4    39.3            1.61   216.2           176.9
1996/97    7.3    14.6             16.3    38.2            1.51   202.8           164.5
1997A8     7.3    14.6             15.3   37.3             1.42   190.7           153.4
199/99     7.3    14.6             14.4   36.3             1.33   178.6           142.3
1999/00    7.3    14.6            13.3    35.2             1.23   165.2           129.9
2000/01    7.3    14.6             12.1    34.0            1.12   181.0           147.0
01/02     7.3    14.6             12.0   33.9             1.11   179.4           145.5
O2/03     7.3    14.6             10.8   32.7             1.00   161.6           128.9
03/04     7.3    14.6             10.8   32.7             1.00   161.6           128.9
04/05     7.3    14.6             10.8   32.7             1.00   161.6           128.9
05/06     7.3    14.6             10.8   32.7             1.00   161.6           128.9
m a    $668.7 mill,ons
IR a      94.9X
A4pruxfmte Coat/Incremmnttl MT.    $42.89    U WS   5.96 /bbl.



- 116 -
ANNEX 6.03
INDIA
OtI Project
Econan1c aAnlysls
.................
Mme Re- InJectlontFlo Iock Schem
Increrntl (Oa not Flared 1M)
(US$ m.111sm)          Vol                       l Not
Year    Capitol Op Costs Total             Gas    Value            emuf its
,...... ......................  ........  ...........  .....  . ......  .........
19OS/87     6.8              6.8                        0.0             -6.8
1987/J8    11.7              11.7                      0.0             -11.7
1968,/9     3.9      0.5     4.4               146    13.2               8.8
1989/90     1.8      0.5     2.3               146    13.1              10.8
1990/91     1.8      0.5      2.3              146    12.9              10.6
1991/92     1.8      0.5      2.3              146    12.9              10.6
1992M       1.8      0.5      2.3              146    12.9              10.6
1993/4      1.8      0.5     2.3               146    12.9              10.6
1994/95     1.8      0.5      2.3              146    12.9              10.6
1996/96     1.8      0.5     2.3               146    15.2              12.9
1996/97     1.8      0.5      2.3              146    15.2              12.9
19978       1.8      0.5      2.3              146    15.2              12.9
1998/99     1.8    O0S       2.3               146    15.2              12.9
1999/00     1.8      0.5      2.3              146    15.2              12.9
2000/01     1.8      0.5      2.3              146    18.7              16.4
01/02      1.8      0.5      2.3              146    18.7              16.4
02/03      1.8      0.5      2.3              146    1A7               16.4
03/04      1.8      0.5      2.3              146    18.7              16.4
04/05      1.8      0.5      2.3              146    18.7              16.4
05/06      1.8      0.5      2.3              146    18.7              16.4
Op. Costs calculated et 5X of capItal costs ewctuidn car4rsIon service
PVu"   664.97 mIlluts
IRR a      47.0X
ApproxImte ncruntal Coati   J3.57 /C             $0.95 macf
(EquIvalent ofl pe1cs    W).1 /MT. w    $5.58 /bt.)



,  $ \',>;;   .                           -  117  -
Al                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNUX 6.04
A4\         '                                  INDIIA                                            ..........
OIL ProJect
s    t tEcor c  Analysis
. ,>,  ,   . +{j.  zi                      ~~~~~...................
.4 ,.4     j    S< t
$'      N                    BasU      capitol ud    01l             O0l                Brektove  Of I Price
Caue   Operatir4 Costs    Prices   Prices                (  10% disot rate)
Up SOX           $10/bbt. $2O/obbt.                 (US     t)
." .* .*-- *- .r+@@*** .-- .. .. .. .. .. . ... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .- . . -. *.- . .. .. . .. .                              
jlecobry Recory    I              95Z       61g.              s5         n/e         1       $6.10
*,  "' 8ches             I      *S69  . $498 M.               *240 M. #18.
O  fO Re.injection                47X       30                 27X       63X                 $5.60
I A    | Scheme/:        I        6S m..   *48  .              24 m.   $56 m.
S         ,
,4                  I ,                     '
/~~~~t \ )
A~'  .    .
. .
-.4 
/       .            /1411144
,..,/ .  
7  ,          1  *
/    4,-,  



- 118 -
AU 7.01
MUIA
-      .*er,f OI     IP3.O- "*
DOCUTS  0hWTAUND m1 PrOJECT  ,IL
1.     Review of Secondery Recovery ad Eanced Oil Recovery Techniques ia
the ASaM Area by Ted 1. Geffen (Coltant)
2.      Techical Description of S0U   d Gas Field Devlopmnt and
Rehabilitation Projects; Worlt  lak, Decebber 1983.  .        .
3.      Drilling, Production and Reservoir Problems of Oilfields of
Oil India Limited; OIL Publication, March 1965
4.      Project Profile for Additional Secondary Recovery Schm s ad
hanced Oil Recovery (MOt) Studies for Aging Oilfields in Assam; OIL
fPblieation, August 1965
;.     Mbtahanai Offshore Esploration Project; OIL Report, March 1965
6.      Offshore Andamn Exploration Project Report OIL Publication,
fSptwembr 1985
7.      Developent of So-Assocated Gas lesources for Additional Gas Supply
of 2.4 hhICD from. Uppr Assa  Fields; OIL, September 1985
8.      Optium Gas Supply from Associated Sources frm Upper Asa Fields;
OIL, S ptember 1985
9.      A-rmmegnetic Surery Over Parts of Mahandai Bain and the Adjoiing
Offshore Region, Orissa, India; Geopbysical Research Bulletin,
Vol. 20, No. 4, December 1982
10.     Recoverable ReserVes and Production Potential of Digboi Oilfields in
Assa.; OIL Publication, May 1982
iI.     Offshore north East Coast Risk Weighted Prospect Evaluationg OIL
Publication, Septmber 1985
12.     SEbhaced Oil Recovery in Depleting Assam Oilfields; OIL Publication,
Jun 1965



I~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 19888
PADE                                    840
PAKISTAN               )    PRADE8 .HCHINA
/    PRUAN JA 8) 
260                                                            NEPAL
Bloc
tgRAJAS~THAN                                      "* 1" W\-%               ./BHUTAN
'7 RAJASTHAN                 UTTAR PR DESH                            s
/ >z  5~Kenpurv                              j4 au
NORTH   /Crauni
. ....                                                    ASEAT  NGLADESI
9 / t t \ { t j BIHAR \
MADHYA           DESH                            u      \
A                      MAHARASHTRA
O       NT EASTCOA$T
'ayf f  Bengal
ANDHRA                        INDIA
PRAESH,    - O.I.L. PETROLEUM PROJECT
5 PPR A D E S HrO OR ad NatralG On $tO
* eZYZI  /f   PROPOSE OI,L1 PROJECT AREA
RNATAKA                             OTHER O.1. PERLEUM EXPLORATION LCNE
K                         OiLfGU43 FIELOS AREA
t >- * -; ^ = T (_<J ~~~~~~OXWMR )P X-BROUCT PIPEUNE8
010J4.          d    .  so",/c'                                 EXI IMN REFINE
{                 \      <   T ~~~~~~~A M IL  (P- zOME M PRODUCT DISTRIBUTION,
*  o @NATIONAL \APITALo CITIES AND TOWNS
-  s7 >63^-*-J       1 NADU -                    STATE BOUNDARIES
KA                ¢           Jr 7~ v 4 < -  CoehlpZ <) }- I-lNTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
9   29e     400       690     80-
.KILOMETERS
SRI  %
LANKA         I
FEBRUARY 11



IBROD1
i   e     ~~CHINA. 
PAKiSTAN
.4;JECTL   |.>wv . .                                            INDIA
2\Rajastha                 24t    OIL INDIA PETROLEUM PROJECT
Rajasthan  Project Area
INDIA                                 [          Detail Seismic Survey Area
L    I    Reconnaissance Seismic Survey Area
Arabn  (        6ay Of                                Oil's PEL Area Boundary
-Arabrar1\                              
\er)gal                         o     Towns
Sea
Roads
-l ---+-  Railways
-*-   international Boundaries
>_>S_ im ~Ue*Petroleum Exploration
ree*me.db.A'Iw me                                            License Boundary
-~ me                                                                                             -                 
WP O SW 2030                                                              40  50. =,.-- .. - 
eV A-                                                                                          .    ..
_w lr_d                                                                                 ; m'-. e''ee,p  ^ m.  
!~~ :                                                                                                      NA  :  - .X 
PAKISTAN                                8- SIN              -o
Kolayat
eGhotaru
0 Asutar  -            /)D
\-   --. tuN  _vJohpr Phalodi
ira~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pi
1i   Jaisa7                              PoKaranDP                    /                       a
DevikoD                                                                 1988
Jodhpurr
, L                  rO                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DECEMBER 198



