Xcil t: onov                   ~~~~~Document of
FILE COP                              The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. F--2105-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A
HEAVY MACHINERY PROJECT
June 6, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              -             Won
Won 485                    =             US$1.00
Won 1,000                                US$2.06
Won 1,000,000                            US$2,061.86
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB         -   Asian Development Bank
HCC         -   Hyundai Construction Company Ltd.
HII, the
Company   -   Hyundai International Inc.
KDB         -   Korea Development Bank
KDFC        -   Korea Development Finance Corporation
NIF         -   National Investment Fund
MIB         -   Medium Industry Bank
KECO        -   Korea Electric Company
POSCO       -   Pohang Iron and Steel Company
GOVERNMENT OF KOREA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



KOREA                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HEAVY MACHINERY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             The Republic of Korea
Beneficiary:          Hyundai International Inc. (HII)
Amount:               $80 million equivalent
Terms:                14 years, including four years of grace
Interest:             8.2% p.a.
On lending
terms:              The proceeds of the loan will be relent
by the Government to Hyundai Lnternational Inc. (HII)
for the same term with interest at 10.2% p.a.
HII will bear the foreign exchange risk
on the loan.
Project
Description:        The proposed project is designed to manufacture most of
the equipment required for power generation, steel mills,
and chemical and petrochemical plants. It would
consist of:
(a) foundry and forge shops
(b) fabrication shops
(c) machine shops
(d) assembly and test shops
(e) support facilities
(f) other auxiliary facilities
(g) technical assistance
Estimated Cost:       The total project cost is estimated at $390.9 million
and total financing required, including interest
during construction, at $422.2 million equivalent.
Details of the cost estimate are given in the
attached table.
Financial Plan:       The Bank loan of $80 million equivalent would finance the
c.i.f. cost of imported equipment, spares, structural
steel and foreign expenditure for technical assistance.
The remainder of the foreign exchange requirement,
amounting to $125.5 million, would be met from bilateral
agencies, foreign commercial banks and cash generation
from HII's operations. Local expenditures representing
the estimated balance of the project cost would be met
from (a) cash generation from the Company's operations;
(b) equity contributions from the principal shareholders;
and (c) a Government loan.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated
Disbursements:    Bank Fiscal Year                  Annual      Cumulative
(in $ million)
1978                       40.4           40.4
1979                       39.3           79.7
1980                        0.3      f    80.0
Consultants:          Consultants have been appointed for: (a) equipment selec-
tion and preparation of detailed engineering; and (b) the
provision of technical assistance in foundry/forge opera-
tions in the early years of implementation of the project.
About 120 man-months of consultancy has been estimated at
an average cost of $8,300 per man-month.
Rate of Return:       17.4%.
Appraisal Report:    No. 1495-KO, dated May 31, 1977.



- iii -
Estimated Cost:
% of
Won billion                  $ million          Base
Local Foreign /a Total    Local Foreign /a Total  Cost
1.  Civil works             8.6    -           8.6     17.8    -          17.8    9.1
2.  Buildings               7.5    3.4       10.9      15.5    7.0        22.5   11.6
3. Equipment &
spares /b           17.8   45.7        63.5      36.6   94.2      130.8   67.2
4. Erection &
installation         5.8    -           5.8      11.9    -         11.9    6.1
5. Pre-operating
expenses             2.5    3.1         5.6       5.2    6.4       11.6    6.0
Base Cost              42.2   52.2       94.4      87.0  107.6      194.6  100.0
6. Physical con-
tingency (10%)       4.2    5.2         9.4       8.7   10.8       19.5   10.0
7.  Price contingency       9.8   10.1       19.9      20.3   20.7        41.0   21.1
Total Fixed Assets   56.2   67.5        123.7    116.0  139.1        255.1  131.1
8.  Working capital /c   41.5   24.4         65.9      85.5   50.3       135.8   69.8
Total Project Cost   97.7   91.9        189.6    201.5  189.4       390.9  200.9
9. Interest during
construction         7.4    7.8        15.2      15.2   16.1       31.3   16.1
Total Financing
Required          105.1   99.7       204.8    216.7  205.5       422.2  217.0
/a  Represents only direct foreign exchange.  Indirect foreign exchange is
estimated to be about $17.0 million.
/b c.i.f. cost at the plant site, including $4.2 million in duties and taxes.
Ic Working capital requirements are through to the 1983 steady state.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THiE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCIION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA FOR A HEAVY MACHINERY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and reconmendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Korea for the equivalent of $80 million to help finance a
proposed heavy machinery project. The loan would have a term of 14 years,
including four years of grace, with interest at 8.2% per annum. The proceeds
would be relent by the Government to Hyundai International Inc. (HII) for the
same term with interest at 10.2% p.a.
PART I - THE ECONOMY i
2.        The latest Economic Report ("Growth and Prospects of the Korean
Economy") was distributed under cover of Sec M77--158 dated March 4, 1977.
The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Recent Economic Developments
3.        During the last few years, the externa:L economic environment has
been subject to unexpected, sharp and sudden changes which seriously affected
economic activity in Korea and, more particularly, its external trade and
payments situation. The boom in world trade led to increases in the volume
of Korean exports of 46% and 54% in 1972 and 1973 respectively. But, in 1974,
the quadrupling of oil prices, combined with a sharp rise in the prices of.
foodgrains and capital goods, led to a deterioralion of 18% in the terms of
trade. At the same time, the deep recession in ithe industrialized countries
caused a slackening in the growth of exports to some 9%. The purchasing
power of exports, which had expanded by over 46% each year in 1972 and 1973,
actually decreased by nearly 11% in 1974. During 1975 export volume grew by
a remarkable 23%, assisted by the devaluation of the won in December 1974 and
a very vigorous drive to expand and diversify markets.  However, part of this
gain was offset by a further deterioration of 10% in the terms of trade.
4.        Among the major economic targets set by the Government in 1976 were
the containment of inflation to 10% and a reduction in the balance of payments
current account deficit from $1.9 billion in 1975 to $1.4 billion.  Preliminary
indications are that the former goal was achieved and the latter substantially
surpassed.  Wholesale prices, which had increased by nearly 80% between the
end of 1973 and the end of 1975, are estimated to have increased by around 9%
in 1976, primarily because import costs (which more than doubled between 1972
and 1974) apparently decreased by about 2% in 1976; moreover, the growth in
domestic credit was limited in 1976 to 21% (compared with increases of 54%
and 32% in 1974 and 1975 respectively).
* Paragraphs 3-16 are almost identical to those contained in the corres-
ponding section of the President's Report (No. P-2027-KO) on the Second
Ports Project (Loan 1401-KO), which was approved on April 12, 1977.



- 2 -
5.        Primarily as a result of the recovery in the OECD countries,
Korea's exports appear to have increased in 1976 by about 40% in volume and
there was an improvement of 13% in the terms of trade. Wlhile part of this
increase in exports may have been supplied by a drawing-down of inventories,
it is evident that it could not have been achieved without substantial
additions to production capacity in the last couple of years. A remarkable
feature of Korea's economic management through the crisis of 1974 and 1975
was that fixed investment continued to grow at an average of 11% per annum in
constant 1970 prices, raising its ratio to GNP from 24.3% in 1973 to 25.6% in
1975.
6.        The real growth of GNP in 1976 is estimated at 15.2% as compared
with an average increase of 8.5% in the two previous years. This was the
result primarily of buoyant exports, but the extraordinary growth in agricul-
tural output was also a significant factor. Value added in agriculture grew
at over 7% in each of the last two years. WJhile weather conditions were
favorable over the past three seasons, there has also been a real improvement
in yields as a result of better technology and the more effective use of the
various inputs.
7.        Although there was a large increase in the outstanding external debt
during the Third Plan period (1972-76), the real burden of external debt has
in. fact declined. The ratio of debt service payments to exports (of goods and
nonfactor services) declined from an average of 21% in the early 1970s to an
estimated 11% at the end of 1976. Total outstanding debt is estimated at
about $7 billion in medium- and long-term maturities and an additional $2 bil-
lion in maturities of less than one year. Debt service payments are estimated
to have been nearly $1 billion in 1976, which was well within Korea's repay-
ment capacity.
8.        It would appear that Korea achieved several of the objectives it
set for itself in the Third Plan, despite the balance of payments difficul-
ties experienced in 1974 and 1975 and a generally less favorable international
economic environment than had been expected. The rate of growth of GNP was
around 11% per year compared with the original target of 8.6%. Considerable
progress has also been made in expanding the manufacturing sector. However,
progress in reducing reliance on foreign savings and in restraining inflation
fell short of expectations. Furthermore, even with employment growing at 4%
per annum during the Third Plan period, there has been little improvement in
the unemployment situation. Although over two million jobs were created
during the Third Plan period, they were barely sufficient to keep pace with
the growth in the labor force; the open unemployment rate in the urban areas
remains at about 7%.
Longer Term Prospects and Program
9.        The preparation of the Fourth Plan (1977-81) has afforded an oppor-
tunity for a comprehensive review of Korea's economic problems, prospects and
priorities. Korea's longer term goals as specified in the Plan are "growth
with enhanced self-sufficiency" and "greater equity and social development."
It is the firm intention of the Korean Government to achieve a maximum rate



of growth consistent with a sound balance of payments and also with the main-
tenance of internal financial stability. The Plan projects that the current
account deficit will be eliminated during the next few years. National sav-
ings are expected to finance as much as 92% of total investment as compared
with about 72% in the Third Plan period (1972-76). However, these projections
may prove overly optimistic. The domestic savings target appears somewhat
ambitious, while the projected investment requirements may turn out to be too
low.
10.       Growth and stability are not the only objectives.  Enhanced equity
and greater social development are also of importance in the Korean scheme of
things. The main emphasis is on: (a) providing adequate employment oppor-
tunities for the rapidly growing labor force to prevent aggravating the
unemployment problem; and (b) achieving a wider distribution of the bene-
fits of growth. Pising employment is the most important instrument for
achieving an equitable distribution of the benefits of growth. This is all
the more so because, despite the success in reducing the rate of growth of
population to around 1.7% per annum, the labor force continues to grow at
over 3% per annum because of the baby boom following the Korean War in the
early 1950s.  Health outlays will increase as a proportion of total invest-
ment with special stress on preventive care and an innovative health deliv-
ery system to service low income families, especially in the rural areas.
Rural incomes are expected to increase as a result of a further improvement
in agricultural terms of trade and increased opportunities for nonfarm employ-
ment, primarily through the Saemaeul (New Community) Movement and small indus-
tries' development. The quality of life in the rural areas is to be further
enhanced by the provision of additional infrastructure facilities.
11.       The achievement of these goals would not require a change in the
basic development strategy of export-led growth, which Korea has followed
so successfully since the mid-sixties. GNP is expected to rise at 9.2% per
annum, fueled by the growth of 16% per annum in the volume of manufactured
exports. The manufacturing sector, which now contributes 32% of GNP, is
expected to provide 54% of the increase in GNP during the Plan period,
increasing at 14.3% a year. The ratio of commodity exports to GNP is
expected to rise from the current level of about 30% to about 42% in 1981,
with the manufacturing sector providing about 92% of total exports compared
with 85% in 1975. This demands the achievement of continuous gains in effi-
ciency and productivity. Korea's comparative advantage will gradually shift
towards manufactures, such as machinery, electronics and shipbuilding, which
require relatively more skilled labor. It is also necessary to achieve some
import substitution in steel and chemicals to ensure an adequate supply of
intermediate inputs for the export industries. These changes in the indus-
trial structure will require intensive efforts to improve the mechanisms for
the transfer of foreign technology and the development of appropriate indi-
genous technology.
12.       The Plan targets for exports are challenging but appear to be
attainable, given the extraordinary drive of the Korean exporters, a con-
tinuation of the present level of export incentives and the assumption that
the economies of the OECD countries will grow at an average rate of 4-5%
annually while the volume of world trade expands at an annual rate of about
8% during the period.



- 4 -
13.       Strong policy measures are envisioned in the Plan to increase the
mobilization of domestic resources. Success in restraining inflation is
expected to have a significantly favorable effect on the mobilization of
private savings. In the past, private savings have fluctuated with the move-
ment of the terms of trade and the rate of inflation. The terms of trade are
projected to be fairly stable through the Fourth Plan period and a rate of
inflation of the order of 10% a year is foreseen. The Government has taken
measures designed to channel the higher private savings likely to be gener-
ated by these developments to an increasing extent into the financial sys-
tem, and, thereby, into more effective use for productive investments. In
addition to restoring a positive real rate of return on financial forms of
savings, the measures include the imposition of a capital gains tax at the
rate of 50% on undeveloped land, and 30% on nonprincipal household dwellings.
Funds that went into real estate are now flowing into the securities market
where the after-tax yields are more attractive. At the same time, direct
measures have been taken to force corporations to "go public", thus increas-
ing the supply of corporate securities. Steps are also being taken to
increase the variety of financial securities in terms of maturities, yields
and conditions that would constitute an attractive package to investors.
14.       The measures to increase the mobilization of private savings are
being supported by fiscal actions to increase public savings. The defense
tax surchage imposed in 1975 is to be continued and a value-added tax intro-
duced. The extent of the subsidization of farmers and urban consumers through
the Grain Management Fund and the Fertilizer Fund is being reduced. The
increased resource mobilization and the strong restraint on most current
expenditures will result in substantial budgetary current surpluses which
could be used to finance capital expenditures.
15.       The Plan's priorities, strategy and programs are sound.  The con-
tinued emphasis on relatively rapid growth is essential in the light of the
need to create additional employment for the growing labor force. Further-
more, the predominant role the export sector is expected to play is appro-
priate in view of Korea's limited natural resources. Moreover, Korea has the
manpower and the entrepreneurial capacity to implement the Plan's investment
program. The Plan strikes a reasonable balance between the various objec-
tives of increasing employment, maintaining a minimum growth of per capita
incomes, strengthening the balance of payments and making progress towards
diversifying the industrial structure so as to sustain export growth in the
1980s.
16.       The main impediment to the successful implementation of the Plan
is likely to be the difficulty that Korea may encounter in raising the
necessary resources. As indicated above, Korea's ability to meet its invest-
ment requirements from domestic savings may fall short of the Plan projec-
tions, while a sizeable continuing inflow of external capital will also be
necessary to help meet the burden of amortizing the external debt. It is
estimated that Korea may need to borrow an average of $2.5 billion per annum
over the next several years, and its ability to obtain foreign capital in
adequate amounts and on reasonable terms will continue to be a challenge.
The servicing of the debt should not pose serious difficulties, given the
present debt servicing ratio and the prospects for continued export growth,



- 5 -
provided that the proportion of external debt incurred on shorter term and at
high interest rates is not excessive. On the assumption that Korea can obtain
the required inflow of capital on reasonable terms, the debt service ratio
which now stands at around 11% is expected to decline slowly to just under
10% at the end of the decade and remain at that level during the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.       As of April 30, 1977, Korea had received 31 Bank Loans (including
one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, amounting in total to $1,417.3 mil-
lion in loans and $106.9 million in credits (taking into account cancellations
and the refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan).
18.       A substantial part ($558.2 million) of Bank financing has been for
the transport sector. $194.5 million has been lent for agriculture projects.
The Korea Development Finance Corporation (KDFC) has received $150 million,
the Korea Development Bank (KDB) $142.5 million, and the Medium Industry Bank
(MIB) $30 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry. A total
of $80.3 million has been provided for three education projects; $25.0 million
for a tourism project; $15.0 million for a secondary cities project; and
$60.0 million for a rural infrastructure project. In addition, two program
loans amounting to $175.0 million have also been granted to Korea.
19.       As of April 30, 1977, $574.6 million of the total Bank lending
remained undisbursed on effective loans and credits, mostly from commitments
in the past two years. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits, and IFC investments as of that date and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. As indicated in the notes, progress on project imple-
mentation is generally satisfactory.
20.       Excluding one project that was subseqluently cancelled, IFC had
by April 30, 1977 entered into 16 commitments totalling $69.0 million
(net of participations and cancellations). On March 22, 1977, the Board
approved an investment of up to $15.37 million in the Korea Development
Leasing Corporation (KDLC), of which up to $10.0 million will be sold to
participants. A project for the production of special and stainless steel
is in an advanced stage of preparation and under preliminary consideration
are projects in cement distribution and construction materials.
21.       The emphasis which the Government places on agricultural and rural
development is reflected in the Bank's lending program for FY77. The Miho
Watershed Area Development Project, the Second Agricultural Credit Project
and a project encompassing the second stage of the development of the Yong
San Gang basin have been approved by the Executive Directors during this
fiscal year.



- 6 -
22.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural sectors
and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent infrastructural
development. Although the transport sector will be given less emphasis than
in the past, the investments required are large, and, thus, there is consider-
able support for this sector in the proposed program.
23.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt (dis-
bursed) outstanding at the end of 1975 was about 8.7%, and the share of debt
service was of the order of 4.6% at that time. These ratios are expected to
increase to around 18% and 11% by the end of the present decade.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
24.       Korea has been able to sustain an impressive record of economic
performance for more than a decade: an average growth rate of aggregate real
GNP of nearly 10% p.a. since 1962. This appears all the more remarkable when
judged in the context of the country's poor endowment of natural resources.
Since most of the country is mountainous, only about 23% of the land area is
cultivable. Korea's mineral resources are also limited: the country's prin-
cipal known mineral resource still appears to be anthracite coal, available
in quantity, but of relatively poor coking quality.
25.       Given the poor natural resource endowment, Korea's growth strategy
has been based on the expansion of manufacturing activity and of manufacturing
exports, rather than on import substitution as has been the case in several
developing countries. Rapid growth induced considerable structural changes
in the economy. Though agriculture grew on average at a rate of 4% p.a.
between 1961-76, the rapid growth of the manufacturing sector, at nearly 19%
p.a. (almost double the rate of growth of real aggregate GNP), transformed the
nature of the economy from a predominantly agricultural one (the share of
agriculture, forestry, and fisheries in GNP was 44% in 1961, while that of
mining and manufacturing was only 12%) to one which is significantly dependent
on mining and manufacturing (by 1976, the share of mining and manufacturing
in GNP is estimated to have risen to around 36%).
26.       The principal impetus to this extraordinary transformation of the
economy came from the growth of manufactured exports. In the early 1960s,
aggregate exports, though growing in relation to GNP, were still not very
significant. In 1965, commodity exports were $175 million; of this total,
manufactured exports amounted to $144 million, constituting about 8% of manu-
factured output. By 1976, commodity exports growing at about 32% per annum in
constant prices over the past decade are estimated to have risen to almost
$8 billion; the share of manufactured exports in the total was expected to have
exceeded 90% and their share in manufactured output to have exceeded 25%.
Growth in manufactured exports was accompanied by some changes in the structure
of exports. Though Korea's export pattern continued to display a high degree
of reliance on a handful of labor-intensive traditional exports: textiles,



-7-
clothing, footwear, plywood, electronics, and certain miscellaneous manufac-
tures, there was a discernible trend in the direction of more sophisticated
skill-intensive products. Several new light industry products, such as travel
goods and plastic articles, and heavy industry goods, such as electrical
machinery and transport equipment (including ships), were added to Korea's
range of manufactured exports. At the same time, despite the relatively
negligible role of import substitution in the aggregate, the pursuit of back-
ward linkages, usually from exports, enabled domestic production to replace
imports in certain selective sectors, e.g. textiles, apparel, sewing machines,
certain metal products and chemicals, and particularly after 1968, in partic-
ular sectors of the basic metal, petrochemical and machinery industries.
This has enabled Korea's aggregate dependence on imported intermediates and
investment goods to be maintained at roughly the same percentage level over
the past decade.
27.       Korea's export performance and its efforts at selective import
substitution were also reflected in the structural changes which occurred
in the manufacturing sector over the last decade. While value added in
manufacturing rose at an annual rate of about 18.7% p.a. (in constant prices),
between 1962 and 1975, the composition of manufacturing output changed quite
significantly in favor of t'he metals, machinery and chemicals sectors. The
share of these three major manufacturing groups rose from 21% in 1961 to
about 33% in 1975. The most striking increase was registered by the com-
bined machinery, electronics and shipbuilding sector, the growth being
spearheaded by electronic products. While the machinery industry, of which
the proposed project is a part, has grown in constant prices at the rapid
rate of around 20% p.a. during 1971-75, it has generally lagged behind
electronics and shipbuilding; indeed in the general machinery category, which
includes industrial plant and equipment, the country estimatedly imported
around 74% of its requirements in 1976. In addition, the share of textiles,
clothing, footwear, and other light manufactures in total manufacturing
output rose from around 44% in 1961 to about 47% in 1975, while the share of
the food processing industries dropped drastically from 34% to 17%.
28.       Several factors have contributed to this remarkable industrial and
export performance: the beneficial impact of the relative concentration on
labor intensive activities relative to imports; the efficiency of factor useB
in manufacturing (the sector is characterized, by low capital-output and
capital-labor ratios); the rapid growth of labor productivity, due primarily
to the high levels of education, skills and labor discipline, at an average
rate of about 7% p.a. during the last decade; the monitoring of wage and
productivity levels which have carefully maintained Korea's competitive
position with respect to its competitors - other developing countries such
as the Philippines, Malaysia, Thailand, as well as the Republic of China,
Singapore and Hong Kong in certain product categories - and, not the least
important, the combination of a broad range of export incentives through
exchange rate policy and relatively low levels of protection, which have
maintained the profitability of Korean exporters in the face of relatively
high rates of domestic inflation without jeopardizing the efficiency of
resource allocation.



- 8 -
29.       The Government's role has, however, extended beyond such direct
assistance to exporters. The importance of the political commitment, evident
at all levels, to Korea's export drive cannot be underestimated. The Govern-
ment both sets and monitors export targets in considerable detail, maintaining
close touch with private trade and industry, and uses its considerable powers
of moral persuasion to ensure that exporters maximize exports. It has also
made efforts to identify future opportunities, when scale economies and
international market conditions so warranted, and to persuade Korean entre-
preneurs to step into new areas of production and export. Steel and ship-
building are examples wghere the Government has played an active role and
which have become an important part of Korea's manufacturing sector; in a
similar fashion, machinery and the capital goods sector are areas to which
the Government is increasingly turning its attention.
30.       The Government's evolving concern with the machinery sector is well
founded. Though it appears likely that Korea will continue to hold, and even
expand, its traditional markets during the next five years, there is no doubt
that in the long run Korea will have to effect substantial shifts in its
export structure. As Korea's textile and clothing exports face increasingly
stiff competition from other developing countries with more competitive wage
levels, considerations of pure labor intensity will no longer be sufficient
to determine Korea's pattern of comparative advantage. In the long run, the
country's export structure will have to incorporate more "skill-intensive"
exports embodying higher levels of technology and trained labor which are
becoming uneconomical in the industrialized countries because of their labor
content, and yet lie beyond the reach of most developing countries.  Machinery,
electronics and shipbuilding present promising opportunities. Korea has
valuable experience in these fields. Besides electronic products and large
tankers, Korean exports of machinery already cover a wide range of products,
e.g. statistical machines, sewing machines, bulldozers, conveying equipment,
electric motors, and even cement plants. Nevertheless, the product range
remains confined primarily to the light machinery sector and to certain
relatively simple metal products and steel plate fabrication equipment.
Further, the sector is at present characterized by fragmentation, a lack of
specialization, low levels of technology and productivity and relatively high
costs. A more coordinated development of these segments of industry is not
likely to be easy, since mechanical engineering industries consist, not of
a few single plant facilities, but of a conglomeration of innumerable mutually
linked facilities and product types, embodying comparable technology and
capabilities. It is, therefore, important to put early emphasis on the develop-
ment of the sector, because of the relatively large range of problems involved
and the long learning periods that are required in these sophisticated product
groups. The proposed project, which involves investments of considerable
magnitude in a range of plant equipment with varying degrees of technological
and precision requirements, is apt to play a considerable role in increasing
the exposure of the Korean machinery industry to a substantial and diverse
range of learning problems and experience.
31.       The Fourth Plan (1977-81) allocations reflect this emphasis on
structural change. The sharpest increases in export shares over the Plan
period are projected for machinery, ships, and chemicals; the rate of growth



- 9 -
of exports of these products is targeted at around 30% p.a. between 1976 and
1981. Electronics follows next with a growth rate of around 22% p.a. Light
manufactured exports are projected to grow at only about 11% p.a., the share
of textiles and clothing falling from 36% in 1975 to around 26% of total
exports in 1981. Again, the Plan's investment program targets similar struc-
tural shifts within the manufacturing sector. While the share of manufactur-
ing in total Plan investment is only slightly larger (27%) than in the
previous five years (25%), the rate of growth of the sector being projected
at more than 14% p.a. during 1977-81, investment in the machinery industry
is especially emphasized in the Plan. Overall, an investment outlay of
about $1.8 billion is planned for the machinery industry, representing an
18% share of the total investment in manufacturing compared to the approxi-
mately 10% share achieved during the previous five years.
32.       A number of measures are being implemented within the machinery
industry to increase the local production of more sophisticated types of
equipment during the Plan period. These include the further development of
the Changwon Machinery Industry Complex, wherein the proposed project is the
largest of the 104 planned machinery units. The proposed project is the
lead effort in the program to enhance import substitution of plant equipment
and is designed to supply a wide range of heavy equipment, previously
imported, for three of Korea's major industries: power generation, steel-
making and chemicals/petrochemicals. The Government has also established a
"Committee for Machinery Localization Encouragement" chaired by the Deputy
Prime Minister and Minister of the Economic Planning Board to coordinate plans
for the rationalization of investment, training, research and development,
transfer of technology, development of supply industries, sales financing,
marketing, and other areas relevant to the machinery industry, and to support
Korea's basic strategy of export-led growth, while developing domestic
production in certain sectors of manufacturing activity: metals, chemicals,
and, as just described, machinery. The Government has agreed to submit to
the Bank a master plan of action for the development of the industry covering
these and other areas relevant to the machinery sector by September 30, 1978
and to implement such plan thereafter. The master plan will, in particular,
take into account the need to provide adequate funds to assist in the financing
of purchases of products to be manufactured under the project. (Section 3.03
of the draft Loan Agreement).
33.       The Plan's estimate of total investment required for the expansion
and restructuring of Korea's industrial sector has been set at around $10.5
billion over the period of the Plan. As indicated in para. 9 above, there
are grounds for believing, however, that Korea's investment needs for
1977-81 have been underestimated, while the domestic savings target appears
somewhat ambitious. The conjunction of these two possibilities would lead
to a continued reliance on substantial inflows of foreign capital. The
Korean Government has in recent years undertaken a major effort to mobilize
resources. Apart from the establishment in 1973 of the National Investment
Fund, which is expected to finance a sizeable portion of the investment
needs of Korea's major industries by the early 1980s, the Government has
also embarked on a comprehensive capital market development plan, including
the restructuring of the Korean Securities Financing Corporation, and the
development of new financial institutions such as the Korea Merchant Banking
Corporation and the Korea Export Import Bank. Over the period 1977-81, the



- 10 -
Plan expects domestic funds to provide 63% of the aggregate investment in
manufacturing and foreign investment to provide the remainder. About 76% of
this foreign investment is expected to be directed to the heavy arid chemical
sectors and to go mainly to iron and steel, machinery and petrochemicals,
followed by electronics, with foreign joint investment being concentrated in
machinery, chemical pulp, oil refining, electronics, and petroleum. At the
aggregate level, domestic funds will account for 75% of investment in the
light industries. The National Investment Fund (NIF) allocations, which are
to provide about 19% of total domestic funds, are split between heavy and
chemical, and the light industries roughly in proportion to the total
investment allocation, 65% going to the former, 35% to the latter. More
than 62% of NIF financing for the heavy and chemical indusries will be
applied to machinery (26%), electronics (18%) and petrochemicals (18%).
Other sources of funds will be the three major development finance companies:
the Korea Development Finance Corporation (KDFC), Korea Development Bank
(KDB), and the Medium Industry Bank (MIB). All three institutions have
obtained loans from the IBRD.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       A report entitled "Appraisal of the Heavy Machinery Project"
(No. 1495-KG dated May 31, 1977) is being distributed separately. Supplementary
Project Data are given in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington
from May 16 to 24, 1977 with a Korean delegation led by Mr. Park, Jong Kun,
Division Chief of the Economic Planning Board and including Mr. Chung, In Yung,
President of Hyundai International Inc. (HII).
35.       The proposed project is designed to manufacture most equipment
required for power generation, steel mills and chemical and petrochemical
plants. At full operation, the project is expected to produce around 100,000
tons per year of heavy machinery and equipment. The projects manufacturing
facilities will, however, be highly flexible, versatile and capable of
producing a wide range of heavy industrial equipment and machinery with the
following characteristics: large and heavy custom built equipment; equipment
and vessels operating at very high temperatures and pressures; machinery
operating at high centrifugal speeds; equipment requiring extra thick materials
and involving high strength properties; and facilities requiring high accuracy
with very close tolerance levels and rigid performance standards. The project
has been designed to take advantage of the existing capacities in the light
and medium machine industry in Korea; project investment in this area,
therefore, has been kept to a minimum. The project consists of the following
major facilities:
(a) Foundry and Forge Shops which will be capable of producing a wide
variety of castings and forged parts that are required for the
production of machinery envisaged in the project. The melting
capacity of the foundry will be around 110,000 tons/year with a
maximum single casting weight of around 240 tons. The capacity of
the forge is estimated at 24,000 tons/year.



- 11 -
(b) Fabrication Shops which will be located in two separate buildings
for operational efficiency: one for flat steel fabrication, and
another for nonflat steel fabrication. The plant will have a
capacity to bend plates up to 160 mm iDi thickness and will be
capable of producing very large and high pressure vessels and
boilers.
(c) Machine Shops which will be divided into two categories: heavy
machine shop and light machine shop. The inputs used in the heavy
machine shop will be heavy castings, forging and fabricated products,
while the light machine shop will consume various types of bar
stocks and produce light parts for final assembly and jigs and
fixtures for the heavy machine shop.
(d)  Assembly and Test Shops which will be under one roof to minimize
material handling of intricate and heavy pieces, with sufficient
provision for overhead cranes to provide adequate lifting capacity
in both shops. The assembly plant will have an area of 17,500 sq m
in order to accommodate the very large machinery and equipment to
be assembled.
(e) Support Facilities which will be located between the two fabrication
shops and will consist of: a large heat treatment facility, grit
blast and painting facilities, X-ray facilities, maintenance shop,
central tool room and material handling.
(f) Other Auxiliary Facilities which will include electric power, water,
compressed air, fuel oil and gas supply facilities, warehouses,
training school laboratories, and administrative and other buildings.
(g) Consultants' Services to assist in equipment selection and prepara-
tion of detailed engineering and provision of technical assistance
for the foundry/forge shops in the early years of operation of the
project.
The Project Location
36.       The proposed project will be located at Changwon on the southeast
coast of the Korean peninsula, close to the Changwon Industrial Complex (see
map). The complex is being developed by the Government as a major industrial
center with a heavy machinery base under the management and control of the
Changwon Industrial Development Corporation. All the necessary infrastructure,
access roads, electric power supply, water supply and telecommunication con-
nections to the plant site, are being provided by the Government. The pro-
posed plant site, on the perimeter of the complex, is well situated, with
respect to raw materials and component supply, availability of infrastructure
and labor market and future prospects for exports of machinery and plants.



- 12 -
The Company
37.       In view of the importance the Government attaches to the develop-
ment of the heavy machinery manufacturing sector, it has selected Hyundai
International Inc. (HII) to execute the proposed project based on the
Company's existing capabilities and record of achievements. HII is one of
the eight companies commonly referred to as the Hyundai Group. The companies
are incorporated as separate legal entities, but are associated in that each
is either partially or fully owned by members of the Chung family. In 1976,
the combined sales of the eight companies amounted to $893 million. Together,
the Hyundai Group is the largest private industrial group in Korea, and is
the country's greatest single source of export earnings. The most important
companies in the group are: Hyundai Construction, Korea's largest construction
company which has won major contracts overseas, particularly in the Middle
East; Hyundai Motor and Hyundai Shipbuilding.  The Group's other activities
include construction operations in Guam (Hyundai America); the manufacture of
cement (Hyundai Cement) and other building products (Keum Kang Asbestos); and
ship repairing (Hyundai Mipo Dockyard).
38.       HII, which is owned 51% by its president Mr. Chung, In Yung and 447.
by Hyundai Construction, was established in 1962 to conduct international
trading operations for the Hyundai Group.  It later diversified its activities
into shipping, the manufacture of auto parts, castings, forgings and con-
struction equipment. The trading activities ceased in 1973. At present the
Company's activities are divided into manufacturing and shipping operations.
Manufacturing is conducted at the Company's plants at Anyang and Gunpo, both
located about 30 km from the center of Seoul. The Anyang plant was constructed
in 1965 and is chiefly involved in the production of automobile parts such as
electrical systems, shock absorbers, engine radiators, and steering mechanisms
(among other things) which are sold to Hyundai Motor as well as to other local
automobile manufacturers.
39.       The Company's Gunpo facility was established in 1970 to produce
iron and steel castings. A machine shop and forging plant were added in
1972, and, in mild-1975, hII began an extensive expansion of the plant aimed
at substantially increasing the Company's production capacity for construc-
tion equipment, castings and forging, and providing new facilities for the
manufacture of machine tools and industrial machinery. The expansion which
was assisted by loans from ADB ($17.5 million) and the US Export-Import
Bank ($7.6 million) is scheduled to be completed in mid-1977, three months
ahead of schedule. Experience gained from the Gunpo project, as regards its
cost, timing, and efficiency of the local labor force, has been used in
developing the cost and implementation schedules of the proposed project.
In 1976, the Anyang plant accounted for about 31% of the HII's annual sales,
and the Gunpo plant for about 54%. When production from the new facilities
at Gunpo reaches full output by 1979, this percentage is expected to increase
significantly.
40.       The remaining 15% of HII's revenues derives from its shipping
operations, the Korea Atlas Line, which owns and operates four ocean-going
cargo vessels. These ships are leased on a spot or time charter basis for



- 13 -
the transport of goods between Korea/Japan and the West Coast of the United
States.  HII has no subsidiaries and, during negotiations, the Company agreed
that subsidiary companies will not be set up and assets transferred thereto
without prior consent of the Bank (Sections 3.0.3 (c) and 3.05 (b) of the draft
Project Agreement). Also, transactions with Group companies will be recorded
in separate accounts and audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank (Section
4.01 (b) of the draft Project Agreement).
41.       In keeping with the practice followed by other Group companies, HII
will open its shares to general public ownership by July 1, 1983 (Section 3.04
of the draft Project Agreement). In this regard, HII has agreed to meet the
requirements to become a "widely-held corporation" under the Public Offering
Inducement Act (dated December 30, 1972, as amended) and the Corporation Tax
Act (dated November 29, 1967, as amended). These stipulate that any shareholder
and his relatives cannot own more than 51% of the shares of a "widely-held
corporation" and that at least 40% of the share capital of such corporation
should be owned by shareholders each owning not more than 1% of such share
capital. In the meantime, a measure of indirect ownership by the general
public in HII will be achieved this year when Hyundai Construction, which
owns 44% of HII shares, is scheduled to go public.
The _Narket
42.       The primary target markets for the proposed project are the power-
generation, steel, and chemical/petrochemical sectors in Korea. The market
assessment, based on firm plans for the Pohang Iron and Steel Company (POSCO)
and the Korea Electric Company (KECO), both Government-owned, as well as
other investments to be carried out in the Fourth and Fifth Plans, suggests a
domestic equipment market large enough to support project sales. These
investments include: the fourth expansion of E'OSCO, with an equipment
requirement of $577 million; KECO's power-generation equipment requirements,
for plants scheduled to begin construction after 1978, estimated at around
$1,100 million through 1981; and investments in the chemical/petrochemical
sector with equipment requirements of around $450 million over that period.
43.       The Company plans to bid early contracts jointly with its licensors,
offering joint performance guarantees to its customers. It is expected also
to maintain prices at levels competitive with imports. However, since equip-
ment involving such advanced technology and a high degree of sophistication
has not previously been produced in Korea, there is a possibility that there
will be some initial hesitation on the part of potential customers to purchase
the products to be manufactured under the project. In view of this, the
Government has agreed to ensure that HII will be given an equal opportunity
with established suppliers to bid on the equipmaent requirements of Government
agencies and public corporations (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Furthermore, during the critical first five years after project completion,
it is the Government's intention, subject to the maintenance by HII of
reasonable pricing and quality standards for project products, to take all
steps necessary to ensure that the project facilities are utilized to the
fullest extent possible (draft Supplemental Letter). Thus, HII can expect to
be accepted as a qualified supplier when it enters the market, and to the
extent its capacity permits, to be a primary source of supply of the



requirements of such products in the domestic market. After this initial
stage, and once HII has established necessary domestic market acceptance,
the Company's experience, its tie-in with reputable licensors, and competitive
prices, are expected to enable it to compete effectively. To ensure product
quality, HII will only gradually build up the local content of the manufactured
equipment. In this regard, the Government has agreed not to set the proportion
of value added in Korea at an unduly high le-vel (Section 3.05 (a) of the draft
Loan Agreement). At the steady state of operations, in 1983, the project will
be able to supply around 40% of Korea's domestic requirements for equipment
in these sectors. In addition to primary product sales, the project could
supply around 20% of its output to meet the demand for ancillary equipment and
jobbing orders.
Technology and Licensing Agreements
44.       The products to be manufactured under the proposed project represent
technologies largely new to Korea. The success of the project will depend on
Korea's ability to upgrade its technological base into precision heavy manu-
facturing in order to ensure overall reliability and satisfactory performance
of products. The proposed project will therefore invo'lve a high level of
technology transfer through licensing agreements with leading international
manufacturers, licensor and company training and use of experienced expatriate
personnel and consultants. To this end, HII has already concluded licensing
agreements with Krupp of the Federal Republic of Germany for iron and steel
making equipment, General Electric and Combustion Engineering of USA for power
generation equipment, Creusot-Loire and Alsthom-Atlantique of France for hydro-
generation equipment, Mitsubishi of Japan for chemical and petrochemical
equipment, Creusot-Loire and Jaques of Australia for crushing equipment, and
is in the process of negotiating agreements with a number of other inter-
nationally well-known manufacturers. The Company has agreed to conclude, to
the satisfaction of the Bank, the necessary licensing agreements for its
product lines (Section 2.12 of the draft Project Agreement). By 1983, HII is
expected to have about forty licensing agreements. The Company is in the
process of creating a top level position, the Director of Technology Transfer,
to ensure that appropriate technology is continued to be acquired and that
its transfer takes place smoothly and effectively. It also plans to supplement
the expertise available in the country by appointing experienced expatriates
from the licensor's staff or from similar facilities, in important line
functions for key product groups. To ensure smooth implementation, the
Company agreed to develop a detailed program covering all aspects relating to
technology transfer and training of its staff, specifying dates, nlumber of
staff and organizational responsibilities, and to submit it to the Bank
before the end of 1977 (Section 2.10 of the draft Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
45.       The total project cost is estimated at $390.9 million and total
financing required at $422.2 million /1 with a foreign exchange component of
$205.5 million (49%). Physical contingencies of 10% have been applied to the
base cost estimates and an allowance for price escalation added to both the base
/1 Including $31.3 million for interest during construction.



- 15 -
cost estimates and physical contingency. Tota:L physical and price contin-
gencies allowed for amount to about 31% of the base cost. The proposed
Bank loan of $80 million would finance the c.i.f. cost of imported equipment,
spares, structural steel and technical assistance (39% of the foreign exchange
component). The remainder of the foreign exchatnge requirement, amounting to
$125.5 million, will be obtained from bilateral agencies ($46.7 million),
foreign commercial banks ($11.9 million) and part of IIII's internal cash
generation ($66.9 million). Local expenditures representing the estimated
balance of project costs would be met from (a) cash generation from the
Company's operations ($74.0 million); (b) equity contributions from the
principal shareholders ($63.3 million); and (c) a Government loan ($79.4 mil-
lion). Detailed cost estimates are given in the Loan and Project Summary.
46.       HII has agreed to maintain a debt/equity ratio of 70:30 through
1978, 65:35 by the end of 1979, and 60:40 by the end of 1981 and thereafter
(Section 4.03 (i) of the draft Project Agreement). Its principal shareholders
will guarantee the provision of equity funds to meet these ratios, with the
Government guaranteeing to meet any shortfalls in shareholders' equity contri-
butions (Section 2.01 of the draft Shareholders' Agreement and Section 3.02 (b)
of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, HIIE's principal shareholders
have agreed to provide cost overrun and projeci: completion guarantees with
the Government providing a second line of guarantee in this respect (Section
3.01 of the draft Shareholders' Agreement and Section 3.02 (c) of the draft
Loan Agreement). Finally, the Government will continue to provide access to
foreign exchange for project operational needs (Section 3.02 (d) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
47.       Direct lending by the Bank to HII is not possible under a Government
Decree which allows only Government corporations or "widely-held corporations"
to borrow directly from international agencies. Therefore, the Bank loan
would be made to the Government for onlending t:o HII for the same
term with interest at 2% above the interest rate applicable to the Bank loan.
HII will bear the foreign exchange risk on the loan.
Procurement
48.       Procurement of equipment has been divided into two major categories.
Category one consists of equipment to be procured primarily through tied
bilateral credits.  Category two consists of ecluipment, spares and structural
steel to be financed by the Bank and procured through international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. The financing will be on a
parallel basis with separate equipment packages for the Bank and bilateral
financing. Equipment packages costing less than $100,000 equivalent, estimated
to amount to less than 8% of the Bank loan, will be obtained through inter-
national shopping. The Company plans to use a two-stage bidding procedure
for complex and critical machinery in order to achieve reasonable uniformity
among technical bids before priced bids are opened. This arrangement is
considered satisfactory. It is not expected that Korean suppliers would
participate in the bidding for Bank-financed items; therefore, the entire Bank
loan would be used for direct import of equipment and foreign expenditures
for services. Civil construction and building works for the proposed project



- 16 -
will be carried out by HII or Hyundai Construction and Bank approval is
required for contracts between the two companies in this regard (Section 2.09
of the draft Project Agreement).
Disbursement
49.       Disbursement will be made at the rate of 100% of c.i.f. costs for
equipment, spares and structural steel. For consultants services (technical
assistance), the disbursement would equal 100% of foreign expenditures. The
disbursement schedule is given in the Loan and Project Summary.
Organization and Management
50.       HII will be responsible for project implementation.  Equipment
selection and the preparation of detailed engineering will be done through the
assistance of a consulting firm, Ingersoll Manufacturing Consultants, which has
played an important role in the basic design of the project. HII has also
employed an experienced operating company, Terni of Italy, to provide techni-
cal assistance for the detailed design of the foundry and forge shops, and
it is expected to provide further know-how and assist in the operation of
the foundry/forge; IIII has agreed to employ a technical operating company
satisfactory to the Bank for this purpose before March 31, 1978 (Section 2.02
of the draft Project Agreement). The estimated consultant input is about 120
man-months for the equipment selection and preparation of detailed engineering,
including the detailed design of the foundry and forge shops, and further
technical assistance for the operation of the foundry and forge shops. It is
estimated that the cost of the consultants service would average $8,300 per
man-month. The major responsibilities of supervision, procurement and con-
struction would, however, rest with a project team organized specifically
for this project. The team, headed by an experienced mechanical engineer who
was previously responsible for the implementation of the Hyundai shipyard, is
composed of experienced staff in project planning and execution, currently
assisting in the completion of a similar plant, though smaller in scale, at
Gunpo. HII will also be able to draw on the considerable qualified manpower
pool of sister companies, especially from Hyundai Construction and Hyundai
Shipbuilding.
51.       The project team is organized along four line functions: design
and engineering, construction, supply, and finance, with a project planning
and coordinating office. Upon project completion, the project team will be
absorbed under a new operational division reporting directly to the president
of the Company.
Environmental Effects
52.       HII has incorporated into the proposed project adequate measures
for the monitoring and prevention of pollution in each area and will obtain
necessary approval from the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs before
implementing the project. In the foundry there will be an electro-static
precipitator for dust collection and, in addition, individual collectors for
each furnace for direct absorption of dust, fumes and particle-emissions.
The heat treatment plant will have similar pollution control devices. All
water will be treated before discharging and the noise level will be kept



- 17 -
under acceptable levels. All these measures are judged to provide adequate
pollution control; however, assurance was obtained from the Company during
negotiations that they will in fact be implemented and maintained (Section
2.11 of the draft Project Agreement).
Financial Evaluation
53.        HII has undergone a period of rapid growth during 1972-76, with
sales increasing from $4 million to $47 million. Earnings growth, however,
has been constrained due to start-up costs on the addition of new product
lines, and high levels of "bought-out" parts as in-house manufacturing
capability was being developed. While earnings improved to $1.2 million
in 1976, results were still below potential due to extraordinary expenses
associated with the build-up of labor, engineering, and administrative staff
in anticipatior. of the start-up of the Gunpo expansion in mid-1977. Sales
from existing HII operations are forecast to reach $266 million in current
terms once the Gunpo expansion reaches full operational levels in 1979.
Project sales, which are scheduled to begin in mid-1978, will reach an
estimated $654 million in current terms by the 1983 steady state. Initial
earnings from the project, however, will be constrained due to the relatively
long production learning curve and the reliance on a high proportion of
"bought-out" parts in the early years. While operating losses are projected
through 1981, these will be more than offset by earnings from HII's existing
operations. Overall, HII's total after-tax earnings are expected to rise
from $1.2 million in 1976 to $80 million in 1983, with sales rising from
$47 million to $1,030 million.
54.        The proposed project's pre-tax financial rate of return is 15.2%
in real terms. However, as must be expected when adding such a substantial
project to considerably smaller existing operations, the Company's financial
position remains tight through project implementation when substantial amounts
of internal cash generation and equity contributions from shareholders will
be required in order to meet the equity requirements for the project. Also,
in 1980 and 1981, initial repayments of debt incurred for the project will
reduce the projected debt service coverage ratic to 1.6 and 1.5 times respec-
tively. Beyond this point, however, and as the steady state is approached in
1983, all financial indicators improve rapidly.
55.        The Company's financial position is reasonably sound, although the
debt/equity ratio at year-end 1976 was slightly above the 70:30 maximum per-
mitted under the project agreement with ADB. HI:I shareholders have agreed to
meet the 70:30 requirement as a condition of loan effectiveness (Section
6.01 (d) of the draft Loan Agreement). In order to ensure a continued sound
financial position, HII also agreed to: (a) maintain a current ratio of not
less than 1.2 times; (b) refrain from payment of cash dividends until the
debt/equity ratio has reached 60:40, and, once such a ratio has been met,
cash dividends may only be paid provided certain debt service coverage and
current ratio conditions have been met; (c) not incur new debt if such would
cause the debt/equity ratio to exceed the limits set out in para. 46 above
and projected debt service coverage to fall below 2.0 times; and (d) not to
undertake, except with the Bank's agreement, any investments exceeding $10
million in any one year, until four years after mechanical completion of the
project (Sections 4.03 (a) and 4.04 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 18 -
Project Benefits and Risks
56.       The proposed project is expected to contribute significantly toward
the Government's objective of import-substitution through local manufacture
of plant equipment. At full operation, the project would generate annually
$210 million in net foreign exchange savings resulting in payback of foreign
exchange investment in three years. The proposed project would also result
in $47 million equivalent annually in cash flow, primarily taxes and duties,
to the Government once steady state operations are reached in 1983.
57.       The project would create direct employment for about 8,030 persons
at full production. It would also generate employment for another 30,000
persons in the supplying industries, based on local supplies and prevailing
labor-output ratios in the machinery industry. However, the most significant
contribution of the project to Korea's economy would be the development of
the machinery industry and the upgrading of the technological base of the
country through the transfer of technology. The project itself would incor-
porate a number of advanced product and manufacturing technologies, new to
Korea. The uptake of technology would also filter through to supplying
industries, as the project would require a number of parts and components
requiring new technologies. This is expected to lead to the development of
supplying industries with HII's assistance to smaller companies in product
selection, technology licensing and manpower training in precision manufac-
turing.
58.       Major risks associated with the proposed project can be divided
into two categories: (a) those beyond the control of the Company; and (b)
Company associated risks. With regard to (a), lower than expected rates of
economic growth, or a shift in Government policy with regard to development
of the heavy industrial sector could have an adverse impact on the market
for the project. However, in light of the strong past performance of the
Korean economy, even under recessionary conditions worldwide, and given the
Government's well-advanced planning for development of the heavy industrial
sector, the aforementioned eventualities are considered unlikely. Even so,
weakness in the domestic market could at least partially be offset by export
sales especially to countries where the reputation of the Hyundai Group is
already well known. A third risk in this area relates to the provision of
adequate sales financing to support project sales. The Government has agreed
that, in the formulation and implementation of the master plan of action for the
machinery industry, the needs of the project for adequate sales financing
mechanisms will be taken into account (para. 32).
59.       Company-associated risks are threefold.  First, successful adapta-
tion of complex technology will be critical to the Company's ability to
produce high quality products at costs competitive with similar manufacturers
worldwide. Present arrangements for overseas training of key technicians,
and the provision of technical assistance from licensors, consultants, and
expatriate staff during the early years of project operations will alleviate
this risk to some extent.  Also, the Hyundai Group's wide experience in the
rapid and successful incorporation of foreign technology provides a solid
base for attainment of project goals in this regard. Second, H1I must
capture a significant share of the local market for heavy equipment in order



- 19 -
to achieve projected levels of output and profitability. This risk is
closely tied to the technical risk described above. Assuming this is
overcome, however, the Government's support during the early years of
operation for the necessary market acceptance (para. 43), and the provision
of adequate sales financing mechanisms should allow sufficient sales volumes
to be achieved from the outset. Finally, there is the risk that cash generation
from existing operations, and particularly from the Gunpo expansion, will be
less than projected, thereby creating a shortage of equity funds with which
to finance the project. While the existence of an adequate domestic market
is expected to alleviate the market risk, the achievement of reasonable
operating cost levels from the outset will require close management control.
Furthermore, in the event of cash shortfalls, the principal shareholders
have agreed to guarantee the provision of additional funds, with the Govern-
ment providing a second line of guarantee.
60.       Without the proposed project, three major alternatives could be
considered. First, Korea could continue to import the substantial amounts
of heavy equipment required to support the future growth of its steel,
petrochemical, and power generation industries. This would increase the
country's outflow of foreign exchange and delay development of the heavy
manufacturing sector, of which the project is currently the lead effort.
Second, the project might have been incorporated as an expansion of HII's
existing facilities. This alternative is uneconomic, since infrastructure
requirements and facilities for the transportation of heavy equipment are more
readily available within the Changwon Complex where linkages with supplying
industries and other companies in the sector can be maximized. Finally,
another public or private enterprise might have been considered to sponsor
the Project. Given the financial, technological, and management base of the
Hyundai Group, combined with its proven record in similar complex ventures,
the Korean Government's selection of HII as the vehicle best suited for the
implementation of the proposed Project seems appropriate.
61.       The project has an estimated economic rate of return of 17.4%.
Costs are based on the financial projections, adjusted for taxes and duties.
No shadow pricing of labor or foreign exchange has been used since the market
rates appear to adequately reflect economic costs. Revenues are based on the
imported price (excluding taxes and duties) of similar types of heavy
equipment now being purchased by Korean enterprises from manufacturers in
the US, Western Europe, and Japan.  Sensitivity tests indicate that the
project's economic rate of return is particularly sensitive to increases in
operating costs, underlining the importance of the project achieving inter-
nationally competitive cost levels within a reasonable period of time after
start up, which is a reasonable target and one which the Company has adopted.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Hyundai International
Inc. (HII), the draft Shareholders Agreement between the Bank and the principal
shareholders, a draft Supplemental Letter on the Operation of the Project, the



- 20 -
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement and the text of a resolution approving the proposed
loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The Loan
and Project Agreements conform to the usual pattern of agreements relating
to Industrial Projects. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III of this report. The execution of the Project,
Subsidiary Loan and Shareholders' Agreements, the decrease of HII's debt/equity
ratio to 70:30 or less and the amendment of the Articles of Incorporation of
HII required to make new shareholders of HII liable under the Shareholders'
Agreement until HII opens its shares to public ownership would be additional
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan, Project and Shareholders'
Agreements (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 6, 1977



?ASLE  IA
mORtA, 4oPR Lic OP    * SOCIAL INIIICATORI DATA SN9E
.. W.W &@@._.......                   tORKA IOUTH "EP5R3Nr  COUNTROIS  (19703
TO7TAL         96.5                                               NOIT 0 ICINT
401ATC.        14c4                            0960        1970    ESTIMATE               ThAILAND          TURKEY            JAPAN
.................
0ND 0t0 cAP tA (LU0BD                           110.0        270.0       550.0                  T10.0         aS0.0        2650.0
PoPULYTION AND VITAL  STATISTICS
'oPuL^tA?Os      .Y9*  M~L~J~N)                 .0        32.2         35.3                   36.3          35.6         104.3
0L3put iY0OI   tst0;TY
0*AQ NqAe                                  25L.t        127.0       355.0                    71,0          06.0        260.0
rN  00. 0',  ~p0JLTU0A   LAND             1191.0      1363.0       1422.0                  2t3.0           65.0       1744.0
VITAL STATISTICS
euRDE 01NTO RATE  WTOIU, AV)                39.7        35.0         2a.?                    44.3          40.6          17.5
CUODE 00ATO RATE  ITWOU,Av)                 22 19  11.4                6.8                   13,7          tx             7.1
PNFANT MORTALITY  RATE  00THOU$                 * .         noo         *                    go,o                        13.1
LIVE CUPECTANCY AT 00970  CVII)             52, /        65,0                               5ss5                         71.1
ORDa0   RoIPNODUCION  RATE                   3,1   Z      16           2.r                     32     2,.6 /ab            1.0
POPULATION GROrWTH RATE (Si
TOTAL                                        2.8          6. 0o                               3.             .5           1.0
URR&Nl                                       5,0          *.t          4.t                    4.              9 .        4' 0'
JReAN POPULATION 0t0 O  TOTAL.                 26.0        41.2         47.3                   oS.o          36.5          84.4
A*e SRrCTUNE (PRCENTKNi
0 70 14 YEARS                              42.9         42.1        36.3                   45.0          41.5          24.0
1S TO &a YEARS                              53.6         50.6        ST.6                   52.0           53.9          6b.9
68 YEARS ANO OVER                            3.3          3.3          3.9                    3.0           4.3           7.1
ADE DEPEftENCY  RATIO                           0.9          0.8         0.7                    0,9          09            0's
ECONOMIC DEPENDCNCY 07t0                        1.5  ,       1.4          1 .2 1, t. I.ig                                    0.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS Ceu"ULATIVE, TWOU                    ..     4424.7       7404.7                  470.0             **
USCRS Ct  OF MAIRIKO WOMEN)                    ,.        42.0         34.0                   10.0           i.2
EMPLYMENT
DTOAL L500Q   :oNCI tC'OUSAND)              7300.0    10200 0    I2300 0 /d                16700.0       14500.0 /    53500.0
L.6RO  PONC! IN 46RICU6TuRE (t)                66.0        50.5 0b 45.9                        79.0          67.0           I9.0
JNEMPLOYED  (1  Of LABOR  ORCE1                9.0          4.5         4.1                      *4 0./_                    1:2
INCOkE DTOTR!0UTION
.~~~~~~y
00 PR JIVoT !t0O9! 9(C'D IV-
!1s,EsT  5t OF HOJJS1HOLS                  I?:7.0 4d,  'IT I.I1/i                             .2.8 L                    I402
4I00143T 201 OF P4OUSEIOLDS                 01.9         44 5         43.07j                   *.          60.6 /g       37
LOWeST   200 00 HOLJ3ENOLDS                  7   L*       7.           7.27i                                2.9           6.6
LOWEST   400  Of OOuSIOLD6                1N5/. .e  17.,            16.7i                    .            9.40/        22.3
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OwNtRSI4P
O OWNE0 1my T1h  101 lOS OWOfI                 27.0        26.0            ..                     .           3.0
7 OWNED '4  SMALLEST 10I OWNEI*                 3.0          2.0           ..          *-                     0.9
WE&LYN AND NJTRITION
@=eqazewawWsozooe::qj&   190O L
'O6UL0'T1ON FOR NWVSICZAN                   2930.  <,  21SO,0 i  2020.0                      6020.0        2250.0         0650.0
POPULATION PER NURSINa PERSON               3220 0L4 2170,0/    I OOOO/:                     7020.0        1770.,0         2000
ODJULATION PER 40SPITAL  BED                2610.0 L   1900.0         1050.0                  690,0         500,0          S0.0
'ER CAPITA S0!PLY OP F
CALORIES  1t  Of RNQJIRENENTS)              s5.0        103.0       107.0 1                 10S.0         110.0         106.0
PROTEIN OGRAMS PtR DAy)                     53.0         65.0         66.0O                  52.0          78.0          76.0
-OF ow4C43   ANIMA1  AND PULSE            13.0/i      19.0             .                  17.0 La       22.o ,L       45.0
DEATO  OATE t,ZwU3 ADES 1.4                      ..            ,           .                                 15.0 Lb         1.0
ED JCa To0
-.JUsTca !#ROLL40NT R40TIr
RTMA0Y $OCOOL                               96.0        104.0        t04.0                   62.0         111.0         101.0
SECONDARY 3C1OOL                            27.0        40.0          h7. ./b                16.0          26.0          91.0
YEARN O  SltOOLING  PROVIDED                                                 --
(FIRST  OD  SEI04D LEVEL)                   12.0         12.0         12.0                   t2.0          11.0          12.0
VOCATIONAL ZNRO LMENT
tS  OP S1CONDARY)                           14.0         16.0         16.0b                  14.0k         14.0          20.0
ADULT LITE4ACy RATE  (Xi                          .        87.0         92.079.0                             S5.05 o       99.0
WOJSIN0
--;;;Ns PEdR 4 7 CuRBAN)                        2.6 A        2, 7                      ,, ,,                   1.9           1.0
XCU:IED  oDEELLI48 aITIJOUT
DIPED    &TEN tT                            980/i        80@/                                             64,0           *OO
ACCESS TO ELeCTOICIT0
CO IF ALL DWELLINGS)                        26.0         50.0        S0.Oji                                41 .0
RJUAL IWELLIN33 CONNECTED
TO ELECYvICrTY C%)                          12.0         30.0         (0.0i.                              16.0
trAb4IC  0?0:11ES  11(ER THO0U POP)            32.0       126.0         270i                   70.0          69.0         551.0
*0!9tN1Em  CARS (PER t7DU  Pop)                 0.4          2.0          2.0                    5.0           4.0          64.0
CL!CTRICtTY  (OW'1ZYN  fe CAP)                71.0       307.0        535.0                  124.0         247.0        3391.0
'UEWSPRI'JT C(At/YR PER CAPi                    1.0          3.5          o.a                    1.0           0.7          16.9
SEE NOT.S AN. DE.                                                                    ..IT. .S ON  *EVER.                          .



Pleg 2
tiaeas  otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to asy yeer between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 said 1970  st for Moet Recent   timato between
1973 and 1975.
Ja* dpan hbas bee  selected as an objective sontry due to the similarity of the present lcreea eomnaoic structure to that of Japen In the
aid-fifties (with the seae principle resource base, i.e., efticient, industrious, cheep labor aed heavy reliaence on imported rej matrials).
Moroeorr, agriculture, treneport, and otheraoctors of the econc have sin*er  ochareserttics,   Trea also has a pattern of industrial
development which is not very different from te ens  qapan persued with greet succes in the sirties.
V_U REPIC 07    1 960           _ 1955-60;    &   1950-55;    Lo  Patio of popclctioa under 15 end 65 sad over to toeal labor force;    a   Wege
end Salary inc! o? hoc  'dss          /e  196n; -       Fegiatered, not all prscticng inz toe countryi              19562
A   Refer to househelde;    a   Waer piped inside.
2702  /a  GoIerent estimte is 38.0;    a   Lo percentage of esployat;   tsc  Regiatered, not all prApctl.ng to the
oeantry;    a   Water piped inside.
MOST tzR    ZSTL: a   1970-751,                1972;    ac  PAtio of population under 15 awo 65 end oven to abor force age 14
end over;    jd  Labor dbrse age 14 end over;    L    1971;  2        Fegitetred, not all preticig
in the country;    a  1969-71 average;    /h  Te  years old and o c,o    L   $ of popUtion5, for
1976.
THAilaND              1970    /   196!5-66;    ZL  FPblis schools, which include technical education At the poet-secsdAry level.
TUFRfS                1970    /   Exclvdes 17 eastern proinces;        1, 1965-67;    a  1965-7C:        d  Patio ci population ueader 15 and 65 end over
to labor force ege 15      over       s t5pyers en dover excludes ureasployed;  ,     Registered only;
p  Disposeble incoe;    nA  Including aasistant nurses end aidwivezs   /A  196.s-66n  s Pere  iiix years
end over who tel  the census takers that thev cas  reed or  mrlts.
Rl, March. 14, 1977
DEFItrTIONS OF S00I rIDICAORS
Land Ares (then t_2)                                                                     Population per nursirz person - Population divided by number of practie-
Total - Total surface arcs c-norpiefg land sacs snd inlend waters,.                         og  o1le end forte graduate nurses, 'traind" or "certifiedjl  cures,
tari-  Most rococe  esinar. of agriculturel ares coed tauportrily or                     and eu-sliary porsotnel with training or experience.
per-a-eetly for craps, past..e.. .arkbt & kitchen gardens or te lie fallen..           Population por heeital bei - Populatie onediided by ouster of' hospitol
bode available in psuclie sod prIvat  general and opeeialined hospital
GNP per capita (105) -  dt'f pe- capite esttlots ot current sarkt prices,                  and rehabilitat.on centers; exoludes n--sing homes and establishments
calenlat.d by sane conve-rion aethod a, World back Atlas (1973-75 basic);                for custodial and  erevcmtive care.
1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                                                              Fe-  Itaspply of calories  (5 of reauaireents) - Computed frsa anergy
equtealeot of net food esupplies a-ailable in country Per capita per
Popul.tioi  snd vical  -etictisc                                                          day;  available  supplies coprire d,sestic      dustion, importo less
.popuition (mid-yr. nillison  - As ef July fOrdt:  if cot  -vilable,                      escearic, cod Thanges irnoss-h; not stpplien mexod ami-el feed, Seedo~,
average af two cod-ypor enti-etes; 1960, 1970 sad 1975 date.                            qu2ntities ccci It food proeesing and lossee  in distributian; re-
quli-ro,nte were soiitdby P.tP laced an phyioilgical c_de for
Populatign densitv - pet square in - Mid-year populstian per aquare kils-                 normal activiy and health                  -ireOcteri on Pvir,mantal tmpneraifr,
meter (100 hecusoes) of tetel area.                                                     body wights, age and see distributions of pepulaticn, and ellowi.g
Pponl.tion  denaity -e spe ate kha of agric. load - Cfapsted as sbove for                 i0% for vsstc aSt bosehold level.
agrieclonral laed only.                                                                er r       Suine  s.pply of sodnnen  (cra pe c' day) - Prcot.in coetent of par
capit  ne  supyo  fn               day; cci supply of f-ed is dfined no
Vital eta-iotios                                                                          above; rqeireomnt  fcr f   ii eann-ries asrablisho-d by USDt Econseic
Crude birth rate par th-osand, aversae - Annual live  births per thousand                 Research Services provide for a r.iniessa  allowance of 60 grace of total
of cid-yeor popula.ti   co t---ror arithmetIc averates ending in 196C sod               pr-e-.  pvc nay,  ,o P  goone of anma_ and pal         rasn p      sora,- mu
1970, and fit--y-a: a-veec andAlog in 1975 for ner rec-ant cge.                         goa-s  should be nnial protein; tries  standards are loser trno tas-
Crude death rate per _housand, average - Annual deathaf 75 grarso of total proteiend 23 grace   aonimai  protein as an aver-
1LLh-_,,d   _..  A-1deaths par the...and ef oid'               age for the  send, prepo...d by LAO in the Third World Food Pansy.
year population; ten-Yeat arithoetic a-erages cnding in 1960 and 1970 ad              Per capita prenein sanely from anio) and pulse - Protein aupply of feed
fiv-year                                                                              Parag  aPit.; proei  suppl for. most recad Dulmae - Prti  Supyof
fie- peartalitvrate dtt  1975  - deat           int      sv                             derived frnm a-ni-als end valses in grams per day.
age per tho-.sad liv- births.                                                                                         - Annual deaths rer thouand ir age group
Life e     .pec.anoy at birth ieee) - Average number of years of life rem-iaiag           1-4 years, to children in this age grnup, saSgoted ac an indicator
so birth; c-neliy five-yeat overeags aedicg in 1960. 1970 cad 1975 for                  of mlnutrltion.
developing -ouotries
Gress rep-rd-ction rote - Average cber of live daughters a 'asa  ill                    Eduaetion
beer in her aormal repr-dcctive period if she experiees pr Der se Aglnead enrellmeot ratic - oricary eohasl - Enrolinant of' all ages cs
specific fertility rates; asually five-year averages ending ic 1960,                    percentage nf pru7a ry school-age popuintio ncludea children aged
1970 and 1975 for deveilping .osntriec.                                                 6-ll years but edjuoted far d:Lferent lengths of primary erducation;
Ppeuletioc grovth rate (I) - total - Compousd cancel growth rates of mid-                 for opnrtries with  Anivercal education,  snrllment say ecxesetd 120
year pepultioca far 1950-60, 1960-70, cad 1970-75.                                      since some pupils a-e belov or above the official school age.
Pop _ation grohate  %  - urban - Computed like growth rate of totci                     Adjusted errollment ratio -  e-ondary school - Computed as above; sea-
population; different definitions of urban aroen  cay affect coopers-                   ondary education requires at least fern year-  of appr-ved primasty
bility of data among countries.                                                         instruction; provides general, vocatir.al or teacher training Instruc-
Urban population (5 of total) - Ratio of urban to total pepulation; dif-                  -ione for pupils of 12 to 17 yeare of ago; correepondenc  courses are
ferent definitione of urban areas nay sffect c-marability of data                       geally                             ar.d   otd levels) - Total years of
aeoeq countrIes.                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Years of schooling srvdod (firs; and secIn  leel)-  otlyersd
Age strAoture (?ercent' - Childre  (0-IL years), working-age (15-6h years,                 schooling; an secondary level, vocational instrsction cay be pariialuy
and retirsd   5 ear S and over) as Dernertages of mid-year population                   or co-mletely excluded.
Ace dependency       R- atio of popuation under '5 and 65 and   . t                      Vcnional enr_ne   (V of oscd ) -  ocational institbtio-s include
those of  pgos  p t                                                                       nical, inlastrial or other rrograms which operate independently
E_coomic dependency ratio - paoie  of pcnulo'ict  r.der 15 and 6g    d e                  r    as dspart-nto of Seccndary institutione.
to the labor force in age group of 156  years.n                                       Adult lIteracy rate (5) - Literate ad,ults (able to read and write) as
familannino - accuptrs (cu-nlative, thou) - Curulative numbor of                          percentage of total adult population aged 15 yearn and ever.
acceptors of birth-co-trol devices under auspices of notional family                  M4acine
planning program since isception.                                                     Prons         of
FPmily planning -  seers (S of married wome.) - Percentages of married                  Pe,-  par mom Cur          - A,e-g.  -h- of p-..,. per roo  in
women of child-bearing age (15-hh, yearn) who use birth-control deA-                     .ccpied  -nvesticoal dwellinga in tr-bo arsea; dwellicgs eclude
vices te all tarried somen in  same age group.                                          perman.t strsmturse   and unoccupied parts.
Occupied tdfelings witneut piped water (9) - Otcupied oonventional
E vdsellieg  to urban and coral areso  w"tbo,sr innide or outside piped
TIdal lsbor force (uhousand) - Econom.ically active persone, includin                      water faoilities as percentage of all occupied dwellinge.
coned forcs and unemployed but excluding housewivess  students,  *te.;                Accea_ tI  electricity (5 of all dwelliwngs) - ConytalionsI dweilir.g
definitions in varios courtries are not comparable,                                    with ectric itic  in living q-artors as psroest of total dwsllings
labor force.in agiculture (t) - Agricultprel labor forte (in farming,                      in urban a-d rscal areas.
forsstry, hurticg and fihn)s   ecnaeD  oa   so   ocIharal dwelliSngs osrnected te elecmotr'.ct  (7.) - Computed as ahsve for
-tn    dfishing) as peresotags of total labor force,                  Rural  dwetllings only.ae fa
Unemployed (T of labor force) - Unemployed are ussally defined as pons                     rujdwe
who are able and willing ta tcke a job, out of a jo.  on a given day,
remained out of a Job, and seeking nrok for a s-cfi.d   ios-                                  eie  (per thou pee) - Ail types of' receIvs fr radio breed-
period not exceeding one week; may not be comparable bet-wes cun-                      nar
tries d-e to different definitions of une-ploy.d and souree of dae,                     casts to general publie pr tboussnd of populatiorn; cooludes uoli-
e.g.,   ply tet office   ttii             saple surveys-     c    amp non-              censsd recsiver n -ountres and in years when registration C' radio
ployment insurance.                                                                      sets wea in effect; data for recent years may not be comparabls slams
mast cuni.riss abolished liomosig.
I-coe  distribution - Percectege of private iocose (both in cesh end kind)              Passenger cars (per thou pop) - Passanger cars comprise motor cars seat-
received by richest 57., richest 201, pooet 207., sad pooreot 40   f                     itg less than eight persons; excludes onbulaneas, hearses end mill-
hb.oeholds.                                                                              carp vebiclss.
Electricity (bah/yr Per cap) - .tnual ConsomIption of industrial, com-
Distribution of land sasnership - Percentages of land owned by wealth-                    neroal, public and private electricity in kilowtt hours per capita;
lest 10% ansd poereso Pt   of lend  owrers.                                              generally based en prodnotion data, without allov9noe for losses in
grids but allcwing for imperts and eaports of eleotrioity.
Health and Nutritioc                                                                     Newsprint (kgIcyr nr cap) - Per capita annual consumption in kilogrene
Population par phvsician - fopulation divided by onebor of practicing                      estimated Iron dometic pr-dtction plus oat imports of nswsprint.
ophysiocians qualified 'ocr a mcAedieabes-ol at soicereir.y lavel.



ANNEX I
P'age 3
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Actual                               Est.    Projected              Growth Rates _71)
1965     1970       1972      1973       1974      1975        1976       1982       1965-73  1973-75  1976-82  1982-S6
A. National Accounts
(Million US$ at 1975 prices)
1. GDP                           6,953.9  11,714.7  13,900.8  16,233.7  17,655.4  19,089.2   21,941.7   36,846.9           11.2       8.4      9.0       9.8
2. Gains fron TOT                   142.5     668.9   1,145.3   1,517.0       543.6     -         1,027.0    2,547.8         -         -         -        -
3. Gross Domestic Income         7,096.4  12,384.6  15,046.1  17,750.7  18,199.0  19,089.2   22,968.7   39,394.7            12.1      3.7       9.4     10.3
4.  Imports (goods and NFS)        988.9   4,254.3   5,301.4   7,203.0   7,438.2   7,463.8    9,236.7   22,583.3           28.2       1.8      16.1     15.9
5.  Exports volume                  389.4   1,849.0   3,125.4   5,021.1   4,745.2   5,679.1    8,158.3   20,305.5           37.4      6.4      16.4     16.0
6.  Exports (adjusted for TOT)    531.9   2,417.9   4,270.6   6,538.1   5,288.8   5,679.1    9,185.3   22,853.3             36.4     -7.0      16.4     16.0
7. Resource Gap (adjusted for
TOT)                         457.0   1,736.4   1,030.8       664.9   2,149.4   1,728.1         51.4     -270.0
8. Total consu.mption            6,809.2  10,655.5  12,606.7  14,264.7  15,181.0  15,381.0   16,439.1   27,778.4             9.7      3.8       9.1      8.6
9.  Investment                     926.7   3,308.9   3,134.1   4,327.5   5,167.4   5,120.7    5,977.0   11,351.3           21.2       8.8     11.3      14.0
10. Domestic savings (adjusted
for TOT)                     287.2   1,729.1   2,439.4   3,486.0   3,018.0   3,708.2    6,529.6   11,616.3           36.7       3.1     10.1      14.2
11. GDP at current 0S$            2,996.5   8,238.9   9,835.8  12,457.8  16,863.1  19,089.2   25,276.7   60,819.5           19.5      24.0     15.7      18.4
B. Sector Output
(Share of GDP at 1975 prices)
1.  Agriculture, Forestry  and
Fisheries                    0.462      0.330     0.292      0.264     0.256      0.249       0.236      0.152
2. Mining and Manufacturing        0.137      0.023      0.230     0.257      0.276     0.291       0.327       0.342
3.  Other                          0.401      0.467     0.478      0.479      0.467     0.460       0.437       0.506
C. Prices (1975-100)
1.  Export Price Index (US$)        66.4       66.0      66.4       78.9      108.0     100.0       111.8      149.8
2.  Import Price Index (0S0)         48.6      48.5       48.6      60.6       96.9     100.0        99.3       133.1
3. Terms of Trade Index             136.6     136.1      136.6     130.2      111.5     100.0       112.6       112.5
4. GDP Deflator                      43.1      70.3       70.8      76.7       95.5      100.0      115.2       165.1
5.  Average Exchange Rate           266.2     310.4      394.0     398.6      405.9     485.0       485.0       485.0
D. Selected Indicators                1965-72      1973-75     1976-82              E.                                         1965    1970    1975    1982
1.  ICOR /a                            2.05        4.42         3.53               1.   Labor force (million)                 8.9    10.2    12.3    15.3
2.  Imp.rt Elasticity                  2.52 /b     0.21         1.79               2.   Unemployment (Z of E.1)                7.9     4.9     4.1      3.4
3. Average Domestic Savings Rate    0.12           0 19         0.27               3.   Employment (million)                   8.2     9.7    11.8    14.8
4.  Marginal Domestic Savings
Rate    I                       0.27         0.17         0.31                               (X shares)
5.  Imports/GDP                        0.32        0.42         0.53               3.1  Agriculture, Forestry, Fisheries   58.6    50.5    45.9    37.8
6.  Investeont/GDP                     0.20        0.28         0.29               3.2  Mining, Manufacturing                10.4    14.3    19.1    23.7
7.  Resource Gap/GDP                   0.13        0.09         0.00               3.3  Other                                31.0    35.2    35.0    38.5
P. Public Finance (2 of GDP)            1965     1970      1972     1973      1974     1975      1982
1.  Current Revenue                    13.2     17.5      18.2     13.9      15.3     17.4      25.5
1.1 Tax Revenue                         7.3     14.3      12.3     11.6      13.3     15.1      17.3
2. Current Expenditure                  9.0     11.5      11.9      9.6      10.5     11.1      18.6
2.1 Defense Expenditures                3.7      4.0       4.5      3.7       4.3      4.8       6.5
3. Government Savings                   4.2      6.0       6.3      4.3       4.8      6.3       6.9
4.  Capital Expenditures                2.7      5.f       6.2      3.6       4.4      5.5       5.0                                        o
/a Calculated on a one-year lag.
/b  Calculated for 1965-73.                                                                                                          March 23, 1977



ANNEX I
P.ge 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
($ million at current prices)
Actual                 Estimated                          Proiected
1972      1973      1974      1975       1976        1978           1980           1982          1986
Summary Balance of Payments
Exports (incl. NFS)                 2,075     3,962    5,125       5,679      9,121      13,827         20,879        30,417         66.942
Imports (incl. NFS)                 2,577     4,368    7,209      7,464       9,172      13,981        20,747         30,058         65.958
Resource balance (X-M)                -502      -406   -2,084   -1,785          -51        -155            132            359           984
Interest (net) Ia                    -138      -166      -229      -399        -380        -583           -719          -807         -1.053
Direct investment income /b            -2          1        -8        -5        -24         -22            -52            -90          -165
Other factor income (net)              101        72        74        76        -49           35           -12            -80          -100
Current transfers (net)                170       190       224       226        230         225            250            250           250
Balance on current accounts          -371      -309   -2,023   -1,887          -274        -500           -400           -368           -84
Private direct investment /c            74       137       104        53         70         220           260             300           385
Official capital grants                 87        61        64        -          -           -             -               -             -
Public M&LT loans /d
Disbursements                        735       757    1,155      1,687      1,662       2,178          2,295         2,301          4,433
- Repayments                           289       334       391       368        590         888          1,055         1,387          2,102
Net diabursenents                      446       423       764    1,319       1,072       1,290          1,240            914         2,331
Other MHLT loans
Disbursements                         49        71       174        85         98         150            150            150           163
- Repayments                            10        15        23        28         34         120            188            196           213
Net disbursesents                       39        56       151        57         64          30            -38            -46           -50
Capital transactions n.e.i. /f    -116           -28       955 _j   951 /h    -82
Change in foreign exchange
reserves (-   increase)            -159      -340       -15      -493    -1,398
Actual              Est.
Grant and Loan Commitments                                                                                                       1972   1973   1974   1975   1976
Debt and debt services
Official grants and grant-like          87        61        64        -          -
Public debt out. & disbursed  2,691  3,199  3,982  5,227  6,299
Public MHLT loans                                                                            (end of period)
IBRD                                 73       150        85       382.5       372          Interest on public debt           120    150    201    290    325
LDA                                  26        20        -         -           -           Repayments on public debt         289    334    391    368    590
ADB                                   68        46        89       101.5      114          Total public debt service         409    484    592    658    915
Govern=ents                         431       311        446       250        731          Other debt service (net)           23      33      54      60      71
Suppliers                           142       295       516        343  }                  Total debt service (net)          432    517    646    718    986
Private banks                        73       240       737        193  5  1,981
Sonds                                -         -          19        -                    Burden on export earnings (2)
Public loans n.e.1. /i               -          11       80         34
Total public MHLT loso                813    1,073    1,972    1,304         3,198 /k       Public debt service              19.7    12.2  11.6   11.6   10.5
Total debt service              20.8    13.1  12.6   12.6   L1.3
Actoal debt outstunding on Decenber 31. 1975              TDS + Direct Invest. Inc.    20.7    L3.1  12.4   12.6   11.2
External Debt                               Disbursed only                  2                Average terms on public debt
Wold Bank                                      403.5                      7.7
DA      n                                      92.7                      1.8                 Int. as X prior year 0062         5.3      5.6   6.3      7.1    4.2
Dthoc eultilatera1                             196.7                     3.8                 Assort,  as X print year
G-r ..na.  a                                1,838.0                     35.2                    D5D                           12.9    12.4  12.2    9.2   .1.2
Suppliers                                   1,595.4                     30.5               IBRD debt out. & disbursed         94.7   139.8 223.8  403.5  535.0
Private bonds                               1,004.2                     19.2                     as 0 public debt 06D          3.5      4.4   5.6    7.7    8.5
loubis  debtsn.e.i./i77 19.8                                             0.4                "   as 2 public debt service    1.7         2.5   3.3    4.9    4.3
Public debts n.e.i. dbi                         77.8                     1.4
Total public HILT debt /d                   5,227.1                    100.0               IDA debt out I disbursed           47.1    58.5  78.3   92.7   96.1
Other M6LT debts                               470.8                                        " as 2 public debt 06D              1.8      1.8   2.0    1.8    1.5
Total  external H5LT debt (dish, only)   5,697.9 8                                            as 2 public debt service         0.1      0.1   0.1    0.1    0.1
Short-term debt (disb. only)                2,167.0k
Is Interest payments on short-, medium- and long-term debt less interest earnings.
/b  Net dividends receipts and payments.
/0  Excludes interoffice accounts of foreign banks.
|d Itcludes all public guaranteed loans of maturities one year and above, except IMF.
/e  Private nonguaranteed loans, including IFC loans.
/f  Includes IMF credits, backing system borrowing and short-tem  capital ifLows
TR  Iscludes $580 million borrowed by the banking system.
kh Includes short-term capital inflows of $760 million.
Ji  Other private financial institutions.
Li  1scludes short-tern trade credits (0902 million), refinance ($829 million), other short-term debt ($436 million).
/k Preliminary official data (includes nonguaranteed private loans.
March  22, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TEIE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of April 30, 1977)
Loan or                                                              US$ Million
Credit                                                       Amount (less cancellations)
Number  Year        Borrower             Purpose              Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Twelve loans and credits fully disbursed                     228.8    72.1
600    1969   ADC                    Irrigation              45.0              0.2
151    1969   Republic of Korea    Education I                       14.8      0.1
669    1970   Republic of Korea    Railways III              40.0              0.4
769    1971   Republic of Korea    Highways I               54.5               1.2
795    1972   ADC                    Irrigation              33.0              6.4
863    1972   Republic of Korea    Railways IV               40.0              1.7
905    1973   KDFC                   Dev. Fin. Co.           40.0              0.4
906 &  1973   Republic of Korea    Education II              23.0    20.0    31.4
394
917    1973   Republic of Korea    Ports I                   80.0             48.2
942    1973   Republic of Korea    Seeds Production           7.0              5.0
953    1974   Republic of Korea    Tourism                   25.0             15.2
956    1974   Republic of Korea    Highways II               47.0              1.3
994    1974   AFDC                   Agriculture             13.0             11.9
1070    1975   Republic of Korea    Secondary Cities          15.0             11.7
1095    1975   KDB                    Dev. Fin. Co.           60.0              3.5
1096    1975   Republic of Korea    Third Education III   22.5                 21.4
1101    1975   Republic of Korea    Railway V                100.0             34.4
1145    1975   KDFC                   Dev. Fin. Co.           55.0              9.9
1175    1975   tIB                    Dev. Fin. Co.           30.0             12.8
1193    1976   Republic of Korea    Second Integrated         15.0             13.3
Dairy Developinent
1203    1976   Republic of Korea    Highway III               90.0             82.3
1216 &  1976   Republic of Korea    Rural Infra-              60.0             35.4
1218-T                                  structure
1319    1976   ADC                    Irrigation              29.0             29.0
1328    1976   Republic of Korea    Agricultural Credit   20.0                 20.0
1338    1976   KDB                    Dev. Finance Co.        82.5             82.5
1364    1977   ADC                    Irrigation              95.0             95.0
1401 /a 1977   Republic of Korea    Ports II                  67.0             67.0
Total                                             1,417.3   106.9   641.6
of which has been repaid                           37.3      0.7
Total now outstanding                             1,380.0   106.2
Amount sold                    2.9
of which has been repaid   1.0                      1.9
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    1,378.1   106.2
(prior to exchange adjustment)
Total undisbursed                                   633.1      8.5   641.6
/a Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments-(as of April 30. 1977)
Fiscal                                                      Amount in US$ Million
Year   Obligor                T7pe of Business               Loan  Equity  Total
1968   KDFC                  Development Financing             -      0.7    0.7
1969   Honan Silk Co.        Textiles                         1.4    0.3    1.7
1970   Atlas Paper           Pulp and paper                   4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development        -     0.7    0.7
1974   KDFC                  Development Financing             -     0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development        -     0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products             16.0    1.3   17,3
1975   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development    5.0    0.6    5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.         Synthetic Fibers                 6.9    2.1    9.0
1975   Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.   Tourism                           2.7    0.7    3.4
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development        -     0.4    0.4
1976   Chongju Paper
Mfg. Co.              Paper                            5.0    0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc Co., Ltd. Zinc                             15.0    4.0   19.0
1976   KDFC                  Development Financing           17.8     -    17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products            10.0    0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products                     0.2    0.2
1977   KDFC                  Development Financing                   0.3    0.3
Total gross commitment                               84.3   13.4   97.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                               27.8    0.9   28.7
Total commitments now held by IFC                    56.5   12.5   69.0
Total undisbursed                                    10.9    2.0   12.9
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 795      Yong San Gang Irrigation Project; US$33.0 Million Loan
Credit No. 283   and US$15.0 Million Credit of February 2, 1972; Effective
Date: September 15, 1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1977
The project, located in one of the most drought-prone areas of
Korea, provides four storage dams, canal systems and land development to
irrigate 33,700 ha. Works are expected to be completed in mid-1978, about
18 months behind schedule. The project was delayed initially by modifications
in the design of the dams and later when rapid inflation outpaced the alloca-
tion of local funds. The dams have now been completed and good progress is
being made on other works. The project cost is estimated at about US$151 mil-
lion compared to US$88.6 million at appraisal, but because of increases in
rice and barley prices, the economic rate of return of 14% is close to the
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 942      Seeds Project; US$7.0 Million Loan of November 16, 1973;
Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date: December
31, 1978
The project consists of: (a) the installation of five field crop
seed processing and storage facilities; (b) farm machinery for seed pro-
duction; (c) procurement of seasonal seed inventories through the operation
of a revolving fund; (d) seed testing laboratories and equipment; (e) crop
research (financed in part by USAID); (f) feasibility studies for irriga-
tion and area development; and (g) technical assistance. The necessary
legislative and administrative action for revising the Seed Law and estab-
lishing an "Office for Seed Production and Distribution" has been taken.
Project implementation although one year behind the appraisal schedule, is
proceeding satisfactorily. Project cost (OSPD/NAPIO components) have increased
from the appraisal estimates of about US$14.0 million to more than US$20.0 mil-
lion. Disbursement has been somewhat slower than expected at appraisal but
is expected to substantially improve in FY77/78.
Loan No. 994      Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Project;
US$13.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1974; Effective Date:
March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project provides long-term funds to the Agriculture and
Fishery Development Corporation (AFDC) for onlending to subborrowers in the
private sector for the purpose of integrating oII farm production of fruits and
/L  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10 pages
vegetables with modern hygienic processing facilities, using land that is
presently idle or underutilized. The vegetables and fruits involved are
mainly asparagus, shiitake (oak mushroom), spinach, mushroom, strawberry and
peach. The project is to be implemented over a four-year period, and AFDC
lending of project funds to subborrowers is being channelled through the
National Agriculture Cooperative Federation. The project became effective in
MLarch 1975 at a time when Korea's export markets were adversely affected by
the worldwide economic recession. With the global economic upturn in 1976
and the consequent improvement in foreign demand for Korea's processed food,
investor demand for modernization and expansion of agricultural processing
facilities improved. Thus, significant progress in project implementation
has been achieved since November 1975. Project lending for processing facil-
ities, mushroom growing houses, and asparagus cultivation was initiated in
recent months, and loan demand is expected to pick up momentum in the coming
year. On farm development of oak mushrooms, which has been implemented on
schedule since the outset of the project, continues to progress satisfac-
torily.   However, in view of the absence of lending in 1975 for processing
facilities, which accounts for nearly 70% of total project costs, implemen-
tation of the project as a whole will be further delayed.
Loan No. 1193    Second Integrated Dairy Development Project;
US$15.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1976; Effective Date:
November 11, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) the establishment of about 450
new dairy farms; (b) the continuation of the development begun as part of
the First Integrated Dairy Beef Project on about 400 dairy farms; (c) the
expansion of existing processing plants, the diversification of their
production, the establishment of two milk collection centers and fifty small
milk cooling units and the construction of a frozen milk products plant at
Yeongnam; and (d) the expansion of technical services for both farm develop-
ment and milk processing.
Loan No. 1216    Rural Infrastructure Project; US$60.0 Million Loan of which
Loan No. 1218T   US$40.0 Million Third Window; Effective Date: June 4, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project includes about 62 minor irrigation, 29 upland reclama-
tion, 11,000 fuelwood, 900 roads and bridges, 4,200 water supply, and 2,700
rural electrification subprojects. Technical assistance is provided for
upland reclamation and improvements to hydrologic services. Special evalua-
tion studies are also included. Project implementation is on schedule,
costs and disbursements are all close to appraisal estimates. The monitoring
and reporting systems have also been established and are functioning well.
Disbursements are at present over 40% of the total loan.
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; US$29.0 1illion
Loan of July 17, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The aim of the project is to increase agricultural production and
farm incomes on about 12,665 ha, and to benefit directly some 10,400 farm



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10 pages
families. The project consists of: (a) the construction of dams and canals
to irrigate 8,315 ha; (b) the conversion of 2,045 ha of cultivated upland to
irrigate paddy fields; (c) land consolidation on 4,600 ha of irrigated and
non-irrigated land; (d) the development of 495 ha for irrigation of upland
crops and 550 ha for orchards; (e) upland reclamation and bench-terracing of
1,200 ha of presently uncultivated land; (f) the improvement of about 80 km
of river channels; (g) the construction of about 150 km of village access
roads; (h) aerial photography, surveys and mapping; and (i) provision for
technical assistance, procurement of vehicles and a feasibility study for
a second-stage project of the Miho Watershed.
Loan No. 1328    Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$20.0 Million Loan
of September 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides medium- and long-t,erm loans through the National
Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF) to about 7,900 farmers for (a) the
establishment of about 2,100 ha of apple orchards; (b) the construction and
equipping of improved silkworm rearing houses including improvement of exist-
ing mulberry plantings; (c) sprinkler irrigation to producing orchards of 2 ha
or more; (d) the construction and equipping of greenhouses for vegetable
production; and (e) the construction of on-farm fruit storage facilities.
Loan No. 1364    Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II, US$95.0 Million
Loan of January 25, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 198b
The principal features of the project avre: (a) construction of an
estuary dam across the mouth of the Yong San Gang, consisting of a 4,500 m
long embankment, a 240 m wide concrete sluice and a navigation lock; (b) con-
struction of a 4,000 m long sea dike; (c) construction of 16 pumping stations
to serve a total area of 20,700 ha, including the land to be reclaimed and
developed; (d) construction of about 315 km of main and secondary canals to
serve an area of about 15,200 ha; (e) reclamation of about 5,500 ha of tidal
land through land leveling and construction of canals, drains and farm roads;
(f) land development comprising land consolidation on 3,200 ha of existing
paddy, conversion of 3,250 ha of upland to irrigated paddy, development of
1,050 ha of upland for irrigation, and tertiary canals and drains on 4,400 ha
of existing paddy land; (g) construction in the project area of office build-
ings, warehouses, access roads and temporary pier required for the construc-
tion of the estuary dam; and (h) provision of the services of consultants to
assist in project implementation and preparation of feasibility studies
for future development stages of the Yong San Gang Basin.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 905      Fourth KDFC Project; US$40.0 Mlillion Loan of June 13,
1973; Effective Date: September 10, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
The project is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10 pages
Loan No. 1095    Korea Development Bank Project; US$60.0 Million Loan
of March 31, 1975; Effective Date:  June 17, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project provided funds to ICDB to make subloans to finance direct
imports for subprojects principally in the manufacturing and transportation
sectors. Almost the full amount has already been committed to finance 31 sub-
projects, ahead of the time estimated at appraisal. Disbursements now amount
to over 75% of the loan amount, also ahead of the original estimate. KDB's
performance in using the loan has been highly satisfactory.
Loan No. 1145    Fifth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
US$55.0 Million Loan of July 23, 1975; Effective Date:
September 5, 1975: Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The loan covers about half the KDFC's foreign exchange
requirements through the end of 1977. The proceeds are used to finance
direct imports of machinery and equipment, and the foreign exchange component
of domestically produced capital goods and of civil works. About 75% of the
loan proceeds have already been disbursed.
Loan No. 1175    Medium Industry Bank (MIB); US$30.0 Million Loan of
November 26, 1975; Effective Date: January 28, 1976:
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides funds to MIB to make subloans to small-
and medium-sized manufacturing enterprises over the next two years. The
project is progressing satisfactorily.  Disbursements are at present over
50% of the total loan.
Loan No. 1338    Second Korea Development Bank Project US$82.5 Million
Loan of which US$7.5 Million for the Korea Industrial
Leasing Company; of November 16, 1976; Effective Date:
March 23, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides $75.0 million to be used by KDB to make
subloans and investments to finance direct imports for industrial subprojects
during the period 1977-78, the remainder of the loan, $7.5 million, would be
relent by KDB to its wholly-owned subsidiary KILC, which would use these
funds to acquire machinery, equipment, facilities and other property to be
leased to investment enterprises, during the same period, for use in its
leasing operations.
Education Sector
Loan No. 906      Second Education Project; US$23.0 Mlillion Loan and
Credit No. 394   US$20.0 million Credit of June 13, 1973; Effective Date:
September 10, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project provides equipment for and extensions to 75 educa-
tional institutions at secondary, post secondary and university levels. It
also includes preinvestment studies on health and management education.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10 pages
The project execution is now about 12 months behind schedule. The principal
cause of delay has been slow equipment procurement owing to staff shortages in
the Office of Supply (OSROK). The Government is taking steps to overcome the
source of delay. All equipment lists have beern approved; tenders have been
made for US$28 million, contracts have been awarded for US$11 million.  Total
project cost remains at $75.8 million, about 8% above the appraisal estimates.
Disbursements are expected to reach US$20 million by the end of FY77. Cove-
nant requirements under the Development Credit Agreement are largely met.
The project is now expected to be completed by mid-1978, which requires an
extension of the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1096    Third Education Project; US$22.5 Million Loan of March 31,
1975; Effective Date: June 6., 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
The project includes assistance for extensions and equipping of
nine institutions (technical, agricultural and fisheries) under the Ministry
of Education (MOE) and seven vocational training institutes under the Office
of Labor Affairs (OLA). After 15 months of execution, project implementation
is about 3 months behind schedule but considerable progress has been made.
Site layouts and sketch plans have been approved for 11 institutions and one
is already under construction. All sites have been acquired. Remaining
sketch plans have been prepared and construction will begin at ten institutions
in 1977. Progress in equipment procurement is satisfactory. No cost overruin
is anticipated at this time. The chief problem, about which the Bank has
requested Government action, is temporary lack of counterpart funds which may
delay project implementation. Both MOE and OLA project units are functioning
satisfactorily. Disbursements are expected tc be made on schedule.
Tourism Sector
Loan No. 953      Kyongju Tourism Project; US$25.0 Million Loan of
January 4, 1974; Effective Date: May 6, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project forms part of the first phase of the planned development
of the Bomun Lake resort near Kyongju. It provides for a multipurpose dam;
an irrigation system for about 1,200 ha; improvement and expansion of the
water supply and sewerage and solid waste disposal systems for the city of
Kyongju and the resort area; installation of electrical supply and telecom-
munication facilities for the resort area; the construction and/or realign-
ment of about 57 km of roads, infrastructure including storm water drainage,
environmental sanitation, community facilities, and a golf course; a school
for training hotel personnel; and a feasibility study for the development of



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10 pages
tourism on Cheju Island. Final design for almost all project components is
complete and several contracts have been awarded. Execution of the works,
however, is progressing slower than originally scheduled mainly due to a
rather slow start, and delay in water exploration. It appears likely, there-
fore, that project completion will have to be extended by one year to the end
of 1978. Considerable efforts are being made by the newly established Kyongju
Tourism Agency to promote hotel investors' interest and an agreement with a
major international hotel company for construction of the first hotel is now
in the final stage of negotiations. About 30% of the loan has been disbursed
and disbursements are expected to accelerate in the months ahead.
Regional Development
Loan No. 1070    Secondary Cities Regional Project; US$15.0 Million
Loan of January 15, 1975; Effective Date: August 18,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1979
Implementation of the Secondary Cities Regional Project is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. Construction on seven, out of nine subprojects, is
progressing on schedule. A contract for the eighth subproject will be awarded
shortly. Three housing sites, a city market and two access roads will be
completed by mid-1977. Consultants appointed to provide Technical Assistance
to Gwangju Regional Development Unit have started work. The project is
nearly a year behind appraisal schedule, mainly due to delays in fulfilling
conditions of effectiveness and establishing the Gwangju Regional Development
Unit. Total project costs are in line with the appraisal estimate of
$25.0 million.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 769      First Highway Project; US$54.5 Million Loan of June 29,
1971; Effective Date: December 7, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The construction of approximately 370 km of national highways
between Jeonju and Busan was satisfactorily completed in December 1973,
at a final cost of about 5% above the appraisal estimate. Feasibility
studies and detailed engineering have been completed for 1,400 km and 900 km
of national highways, respectively. A study of road maintenance and the
establishment of a pilot maintenance organization formed the basis of the
creation of a country-wide Highway MIaintenance Organization which is being
carried out under the Second Highway Project. The Closing Date has been
extended by two years to permit completion of procurement of highway mainte-
nance equipment, and staff training.
Loan No. 863      Fourth Railway Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
November 22, 1972; Effective Date: February 26, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The main elements of the project are: electrification of lines
in the Seoul suburban area; purchase of electric railcars and locomotives;
the completion of electrification of 350 km of line running from Seoul to



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10 pages
the L.ortheastern part of Korea; track and bridge renewal; provision of yard
facilities; acqui sition of passenger and freight cars; and improvement of
facilities for the maintenance and repair of motive power and rolling stock.
No major problems have been encountered; most of the loan proceeds have been
committed, and over 95% already disbursed. The Closing Date has been extended
by a year to December 31, 1977 to allow time for the completion of procurement.
Loan No. 917      Ports Project; US$80.0 Million Loan of June 27, 1973;
Effective Date:  September 18, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Six civil works contracts and three equiLpment supply contracts
are already let and work is proceeding satisfactorily except at Mukho which
is slightly behind schedule. A contract has also been let for the grain
handling facility but no work has started. Three civil works and one equip-
ment contract are out for bids. This will complete all contracting require-
ments for the project. Overall the project is about 50% completed and at
this stage only the grain handling facility appears likely to be delayed
(about six months) beyond the May 1978 target date for completion. Total
cost is currently estimated to be US$160 million with a foreign exchange com-
ponent of US$107 million. The Loan provides US$80 million foreign exchange
and the overrun is being financed by the Saudi Fund for Development (SFD).
The Korea Maritime and Port Authority (KMPA) is being adequately staffed, but
there has been a delay in adopting operational and financial procedures
recommended by consultants appointed to advise KMPA on these matters.
Loan No. 956      Second Highway Project; US$47.0 Million Loan of January 25,
1974; Effective Date: April 4, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The works, consisting of construction, chiefly on new alignments,
of about 130 km of highways and paving, chiefly on existing alignments, of a
further 634 km of national highways were completed on schedule and the high-
ways opened to traffic in October 1975. The cost, in US dollar equivalent,
exceeded the estimate by about 5%.  Feasibility studies for future projects
of about 1,000 km of roads were started in August 1975, followed by detailed
engineering which is expected to be completed in mid-1977. Delay occurred
in setting up a new nationwide highway maintenance organization but the
organization has now been established in accordance with decrees published
in June 1975. All the maintenance offices have been constructed and staffed
and equipment procured under the Loan. The Government has been requested to
increase the budgetary allocation to enable an adequate program of periodic
maintenance to be carried out.
Loan No. 1101    Fifth Railway Project; US$100.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: July 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The project will help the Korean National Railroad (KNR) continue
as a major carrier of freight and passengers by helping in: the upgrading,
modernization and expansion of track, rolling stock, motive power, and other



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10 pages
equipment; the improvement of -fhe efficiency of operation; and tee strengt1ien-
ing of its financial position. The main components of the Project are: an
increase in station and line capacity and improvements in signalling; acquisi-
tion of rolling stock, diesel and electric locomotives, spare parts and repair
facilities; track renewal and improvement; bridge strengthening; completion
of electrification of 71 km of industrial lines; and other miscellaneous
items. Contracts, financed by the loan, have been signed for procurement of
passenger and freight cars, wheel sets, spares for locomotives, rail, bridge
girders and track maintenance machinery, amounting to about US$75 million
equivalent. About 60% of the loan proceeds have already been disbursed. In
connection with this loan, the Gcvernment undertook to formulate a financial
recovery plan for KNR and to discuss it with the Bank. A mission which
visited Korea in October 1976 discussed this matter with the authorities
concerned.
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; US$90.0 Million Loan of
February 3, 1976; Effective Date: May 17, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignments, including paving, of about 195 km of four national
highways, including supervision of the work by consultants; (b) paving and
improvement chiefly on present alignments, of nine national highways totalling
about 600 km, including supervision of the work by consultants; and (c) feasi-
bility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of national and provincial
roads, to be followed by detailed engineering. Contracts for construction and
paving have been awarded and work is progressing on schedule. The Government
is currently drafting the terms of reference for feasibility studies.
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; US$67.0  Million Loan of
April 12, 1977; Effective Date:/l Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of:  (a) 700 m extension of container berths
being financed under the First Ports Project and a 335,000 sq m expansion
of the stacking area provided under that project; dredging to provide an
alongside depth of 12.5 m; construction of an access road, inside the port
limits; a guard house; and an 8,000 sq m container freight station; ancillary
works and utilities; and rehabilitation of piers 3 and 4, the central wharf,
and lighter wharf No. 5; (b) procurement of container cranes, mobile container
handling equipment; and two tugboats; (c) Engineering Consultant Services -
to carry out detailed design and supervision of construction and procurement;
(d) Technical Assistance and Training - to assist in cargo handling (including
the handling of containers), maintenance, port planning, and accounting.
/1 Not yet effective



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
KOREA
HEAVY MACHINERY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I       Time Table of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: seven months
(April 1976 - November 1976)
(b) Agency which prepared the project: Hyundai International
Inc. and Consultants
(c) Date of first Bank Mission to consider the project:
July 19, 1976
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: November 18, 1976
3
(e) Negotiations completed: May 24, 1977
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: September 23, 1977
Section II      Special Bank Implementation Actions:  None
Section III    Special Conditions:  The following special conditions are
incorporated in the Loan, Project and Shareholder's Agreement.
(a) The Government would furnish to the Bank for review by
September 30, 1978 a master plan of action for the
development of the Industrial Sector covering: rational-
ization of investment, training, research and development,
sales financing, marketing and other areas relevant to
the machinery sector (para. 32).
(b) HII would open its shares to public ownership by
July 1, 1983 (para. 41).
(c) The Government would ensure HII is given an equal opportunity
to that of other suppliers to bid on contracts for equipment
to be produced under the project (para. 43).
(d) The Government would not se!t unduly high localization ratios
for the project (para. 43).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(e)  HII would conclude all necessary licensing agreements
required for the project (para. 44).
(f)  HII would develop a detailed program covering all aspects
of technology transfer and staff training and submit it
to the Bank before the end of 1977 (para. 44).
(g) The Government would provide for local loan funds required
for the project (para. 45).
(h)  HII would maintain a debt/equity ratio of 70:30 through
1978, 65:35 by end of 1979 through 1981 and 60:40 by
end of 1981 (para. 46).
(i)  HII principal shareholders would guarantee the provision of
equity funds with the Government guaranteeing to meet any
shortfalls in shareholders equity contributions (para. 46).
(j)  HII principal shareholders would provide additional funds
required to complete the project, with the Government
providing a second line of guarantee if the shareholders
are unable to meet their obligation under the Shareholders'
Agreement (para. 46).
(k)  The Government would permit HII access to necessary foreign
exchange requirements for the project's operational needs
(para. 46).
(1)  HII would employ manufacturing consultants and a technical
operating company (para. 50).
(m)  HII would observe certain financial covenants - working
capital, dividend payments, new borrowings and new
investments - to maintain a sound financial position
(para. 55).



IBRD12644
JANUARY 1977
_ t j B R D ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~129'4 
tctt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gh                                                                            '     0 ca st    S  e  o
Yel/ow                                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~38'
35\                       0                                              O                 SuncreonX                       S '  m '    eo' .i5eont
M~~~~~~~~Sner                                                            PROJECT LOCATION
East  Oce                                                                  P       location
Ch Y~ l.e  I o      Sea                                                                                                       ts =                  n   plns
3eobseongplf S  2  . i    _   *  - f J   ;  G  vi i o  x J <        Ra7aaay s~g oder< cosruto                        3
- 35                                                       -]<p        G       ^tSuncheo        J 126'                                                  S mcheo
125                                                                                 SEOU            - f0    :0000:;00::0f;  tt00           O E
W-1~~~~~~~~~~~ -I- gdnyng >sngem0;  it0  :;                                                           HE I eong                  PRJECT
; .<  0unpo                     ;;  0;: j: 0 5 f   S  -    Airports
t000000 0 000200000 00 0 0 0 000 ; Rivers 
l   : X  : 0; 0    u           m     Special cities
i37-                 5      0  u  $      f 0            Provincial boundaries
Mon,ip.__<                                           ;    f 0 ;    ;000 i 0; 00;St00 000\0; 00   ---  InternahenIte btoa drrdre
X   JX            9             ; -                     0t0     2t;;50    40       60       80      10     120      140     160
;  0  0 0 0 :00$0;io00 t;;0i; t000~~~~~~~~~~~020                                                                  i           004|0    60   80            100
Seogipo5  ;   177    ;           ;    i  0; 000; t0;128 0Cheongj             1n
"n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iO
i20~~~~~~~     l2r~~~~~~~                             127                                   i2e~~~~~~~~~~~~l



==   ,=   4~T Busan         -K                                                                                3       or         h         3s
W NORTH                   381
KOREA                                     X~~~~~~OREA,7-   NFAS.T
HEAVY MACHINERY PROJECT                                                                              \t
CHANGWON INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
-360k    K      Doio
Meisoni
340 126          1280         340
>  f   | I   1eser s:       ,ru, Devespmenr                                                n  7  i <   ;j  i:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vp! nlosenei n cipumehih
C                                                                                                                                                                        World Ranksmission  annes  in a
KILOMETERS
ApprexirnotleScoe
N
Industrial Area (Completed
Industrial Area   orbe Developed 
Parks & Green Belt                                  ~ll
Resierved for, Future, Development
Educational &Commercial Area
Residential Area
Roads
Water Mai'ns
TransmIssIon Lines                                                                                                                            u
Complex Boundary
-+-t- Railways
~~~~~fo Jirh.e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ly.'-



