CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1466 KO
Shareholders' Agreement
(Heavy Machinery Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
THE SHAREHOLDERS OF HYUNDAI
INTERNATIONAL INCORPORATED
Dated June 30, 1977


﻿SHAREHOLDERS' AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and THE SHAREHOLDERS OF HYUNDAI INTERNATIONAL INCORPORATED (here-
inafter called the Shareholders, as such Shareholders are defined
in Section 1.01 of this Agreement).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Korea (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty
million dollars ($80,000,000), to assist in the financing of
the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2
to the Loan Agreement;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Hyundai International
Incorporated (hereinafter called HII) with the Borrower's
assistance, including the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by
the Borrower, and HII has agreed to undertake the obligations set
forth in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Bank and HII;
(C) HII's share capital, as of December 31, 1976, amounted
to Won 6 billion divided into 600,000 common shares that have been
subscribed in the following proportions: (i) Mr. Chung In Yung
about 50.9%; (ii) Hyundai Construction Company (hereinafter called
HCC) about 44.3%; (iii) others about 4.8%;


﻿-2-
(D) The shareholders referred to in (i) and (ii) of Recital
(C) above (hereinafter called the Shareholders), in consideration
of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower
and the Project Agreement with HII, have agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Project Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the term "Shareholders"
means the existing shareholders referred to in Recital (D) of the
Preamble to this Agreement and any person or corporation to which
a transfer of HII's shares is made and which, as a result thereof,
has assumed the obligations of the transferor under this Agreement,
to the extent of such transfer, as provided in Section 3.06 of the
Project Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
Subscription Guarantee
Section 2.01. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Shareholders undertake to participate, from time to time, pro
rata on the basis of their respective proportions referred to in
Recital (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement, in such increases
of HII's share capital as shall be required by HII to meet its
obligations under Section 4.03 (a) (i) of the Project Agreement.
(b) The obligations of the Shareholders under paragraph (a)
of this Section shall be joint and several, should any Shareholder
subscribe or pay for only part of the total amount of shares being
offered to him in connection with one of HII's share capital
increases and waive his pre-emptive rights in favor of the other
Shareholders with respect to the remaining shares.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Project Overrun Guarantee
Section 3.01. (a) The Shareholders shall be jointly and
severally required to provide such funds as shall be needed by
HII to complete the construction and equipping of the facilities
comprised in the Project (including the availability of an adequate
net working capital level) if the funds otherwise available to HII
are not adequate for such purposes. Such provision of funds shall
be made in each case either by subscription of, and payment for,
new shares of HII in accordance with the provisions of Section
2.01 of this Agreement or in the form of loans to be provided by
the Shareholders to HII on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, in such manner and in such proportions as shall assure
that, after the provision of such funds, (i) HII's debt/equity
ratio does not exceed the ratios set forth in Section 4.03 (a) (i)
(A) of the Project Agreement and (ii) HII's current ratio is not
less than 1.2 to 1.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "net working capital" shall mean the amount by which
current assets exceed current liabilities, as such
terms are defined in Section 4.03 (b) (iv) and (v)
of the Project Agreement;


﻿- 6 -
(il) "debt/equity ratio" shall have the same meaning as
in Section 4.03 (a) (i) (A) of the Project Agreement;
and
(iii) "current ratio" shall have the same meaning as in
Section 4.03 (a) (i) (B) of the Project Agreemient.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Shareholders shall, not later than 4 months
after the end of each fiscal year of HII, inform the Bank of all
transactions entered into between the Shareholders and HII during
such fiscal year, including sales of goods, transfers of assets
and provision of loans.
Section 4.02. The Shareholders shall inform the Bank in
advance of any proposed action aiming at establishing an export
company to be responsible, inter alia, for the sales abroad of
HII's products.


﻿8-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of the Shareholders thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date on which HII shall have met its obligations
under Section 3.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is! Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
MR. CHUNG IN YUNG
By /s/ Yoonsae Yang
Authorized Representative
HYUNDAI CONSTRUCTION COMPANY
By Is! Yoonsae Yang
Authorized Representative


