CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1466 KO
Loan Agreement
(Heavy Machinery Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 30, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as
hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Hyundai International
Incorporated (hereinafter called HII), a corporation operating
under the laws of the Borrower, with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to HII the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Bank and HII;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set.forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and HII of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project
Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project Agree-
ment;
(b) "Shareholders' Agreement" means the agreement of even
date herewith between the Bank and the Shareholders of HII (as
defined in the Shareholders' Agreement), as the same may be
amended from time to time; and


﻿-3-
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and HII pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in variGs currencies equivalent to eighty million
dollars ($80,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the 3orrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank sha.l so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods.and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be let in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent


﻿-5-
(3/4 cf 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause HII to perform in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set
forth, shall promptly take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable HII to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
HII under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and HII, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank, including repayment of principal over
a period of 14 years (including a grace period of 4 years) and
payment of interest at a rate 2 percentage points higher than the
rate specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower Ad the Bank ind to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-7-
Section 3.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon
its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement and except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall additionally:
(a) make available to HII an amount equivalent to not less
than $80,000,000 under arrangements and upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) make available to HII such funds as shall be required
to meet any shortfall in any of the increases of IT's share
capital referred to in Section 2.01 of the Shareholders' Agreement
consequent upon a failure by the Shareholders to fulfill their
obligation under said Section 2.01 of the Shareholders' Agreement
to subscribe or pay for any amount of shares being offered to
them in connection with such capital increase, such provision of
funds to be made in each case either by subscription of, and
payment for, new shares of HII or under other arrangements satis-
factory to the Bank;
(c) make available to HII such amounts as shall be required
to enable HII to complete the construction and equipping of the
facilities comprised in the Project (including the availability of
an adequate net working capital level, as defined in Section 3.01
of the Shareholders' Agreement) if the Shareholders fail to
fulfill their obligation under said Section 3.01 of the Share-
holders' Agreement and provide only part of the funds required


﻿-8-
under the Project overrun guarantee, such provision of funds to be
made in each case either by subscription of, and payment for, new
shares of HII or by way of loans on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Bank, in such manner and in such proportions as shall
assure that, after the provision of such funds, (i) HII's debt/
equity ratio does not exceed the ratios set forth in Section 4.03
(a) (i) (A) of the Project Agreement and (ii) HII's current ratio
(as defined in Section 4.03 (a) (i) (B) of the Project Agreement)
is not less than 1.2 to 1.
(d) undertake to convert on behalf of HII such amounts in
the currency of the Borrower into foreign exchange as shall be
required for the import of materials, equipment and spare parts
required for the implementation and operation of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall (a) not later than September
30, 1978 or such other date as shall be agreed with the Bank,
complete and furnish to the Bank for review a master plan of
action for the machinery building industry in the Borrower's
territory, such plan to (i) cover such sector issues as (A)
rationalization of investment, rational development of the Chang-
won industrial complex, transfer of technology, research and
development, quality control, upgrading of training, integration
and development of supply industries, export strategy and (B)
sales financing, including the availability of adequate funds to


﻿- 9 -
assist in the financing of the purchases of products to be manufac-
tured under the Project, (ii) include an implementation schedule
and the selection of the Borrower's agencies responsible therefor,
and (b) thereafter implement such program.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all steps required
on its part to ensure that the Borrower's agencies and public
corporations shall provide HII with an equal opportunity to that
granted to other suppliers to bid on their requirements of prod-
ucts similar to those manufactured under the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) In setting annual localization ratios for
the products to be manufactured by HII under the Project, the
Borrower shall ensure that due attention is given to quality
standards for such products.
(b) For the purposes of this Section, "localization ratio"
means a target proportion of value added in the Borrower's
territory set annually by the Borrower in respect of each category
of industrial products manufactured in the Borrower's territory.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for aAy
external debt, which will or might resu7- in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of.such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal
reason such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien
created on assets of any of its political or administrative
subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to
the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other


﻿- 11 -
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the !term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any equity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar
functions, for the Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) HII shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b) the Shareholders of HII shall have failed to perform any
of their obligations under Article IV of the Shareholders' Agree-
ment;
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that HII will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of HII or for the suspension of its operations; and
(e) until HII shall have met the requirements of Section
3.04 of the Project Agreement, any transfer of HII's shares made
by any Shareholder (as defined in the Shareholders' Agreement)
shall have been made without the prior approval of the Bank.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿- 13 -
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and HII or the Shareholders of HII, as the case
may be; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (d) or (e) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-14-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of HII
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
action;
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and HII, respectively, has been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c) the execution of the-Shareholders' Agreement on behalf
of the Shareholders of HII has been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and personal action;
(d) HII has decreased its debt/equity ratio to 70:30 or less
in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.03 (a) (i) (A) of
the Project Agreement; and
(e) the Articles of Incorporation of HII have been amended
in accordance with Section 3.06 of the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:


﻿- 15 -
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by HII, and is legally binding upon HII in accordance
with its terms;
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and HII, respectively, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and HII in accordance with its
terms;
(c) that the Shareholders' Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Shareholders of HII and is legally
binding upon the Shareholders of HII in accordance with its terms;
and
(d) that the Articles of Incorporation of HII have been duly
amended in accordance with Section 3.06 of the Project Agreement.
Section 6.03. The date September 28, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Economic Planning Board of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
- ction 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purl   I of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister, Economic Planning Board
Republic of Korea
Seoul
Korea
Cable address:
EPB
Seoul
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 17 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By /s/ Yoonsae Yang
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the allocation
of amounts of the Loan to each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                   Dollar Equivalent)
(1) Equipment and spare parts                     67,000,000
(2) Structural steel                               5,500,000
(3) Consultants' services and                      1,000,000
technical assistance
(4) Unallocated                                    6,500,000
TOTAL               80,000,000


﻿- 19 -
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement; and
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan set
forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if
the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
all expenditures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to
meet such estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of
the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures.
4.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds


﻿- 20 -
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to assist HII in manufacturing
in the Changwon industrial complex most of the equipment required
for power generating plants, steel plants and chemical and petro-
chemical plants. The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:
Construction and equipping of (i) a foundry with 100-ton
electric-arc melting and holding furnace-, an annual melting
capacity of about 110,000 tons and a maximum single casting weight
of about 240 tons and (ii) a forge shop with one 3,000-ton
hydraulic press, one 8,000-ton hydraulic press and an annual
capacity of about 24,000 tons.
Part B:
Construction and equipping (with one 8,000-ton hydraulic
press, shears, press brakes, boring bars, radial drills, power
rollers, grit blast and welding facilities) of (i) a flat steel
fabrication shop and (ii) a non-flat steel fabrication shop to
produce high capacity and high pressure boilers and vessels.
Part C:
Construction and equipping (with rail milling, boring,
turning, grinding, gear making, drilling and blade making
machines) of (i) a heavy machine shop to process heavy castings,


﻿- 22 -
forged and fabricated products and (ii) a light machine shop
to produce light parts for final assembly and jigs and fixtures
for the heavy machine shop.
Part D:
Construction and equipping (with large overhead cranes and
precision balancing facilities) of an assembly plant and a test
shop to be located in the same building as the heavy machine shop
included in Part C of the Project and to assemble and test
very large, heavy and complex equipment including turbines and
generators.
Part E:
Provision of support facilities including a large heat
treatment facility, grit blast and painting facilities, x-ray
testing facilities, a maintenance shop, a central tool room and
materials handling and transport facilities.
Part F:
Provision of other auxiliary facilities including: (i)
electric power; (ii) adequate facilities to meet annual
requirements of water, steam, compressed air and fuel oil for the
facilities included in the Project; (iii) warehouse facilities;
(iv) a training school to train technicians and machinists; (v)
laboratories with testing equipment for raw materials and


﻿- 23 -
components, metallurgical and metrology testing facilities and
x-ray equipment; and (vi) administrative and other buildings,
including living quarters for expatriate technicians and local
workers.
Part G:
Carrying out of studies to (i) develop a comprehensive
training program for HII's staff working on the Project and (ii)
ensure the transfer to HII of the technology acquired under
various licensing agreements.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿- 24-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1982
through   September 1, 1991                   4,000,000
* To the extent that any portion of the Loan 1, repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Cc ditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 25 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.75%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                             3.50%
More than six years but not
more than ten years
before maturity                             5.85%
More than ten years but not
more than twelve years
before maturity                             7.05%
More than twelve years
before maturity                             8.20%


