t       PA4    D                         Document of
i L  COPY                          The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2230-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE PROVINCIAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR AN
ACCELERATED RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
February 15, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorintion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =      Thailand Baht (B)
US$1.00          =       Baht (B) 20.5
B 1.00           =       100 stang
B 1.00           =      US$0.0488
B I million             US$48,780
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 kilowatt (kW)              =      1,000 watts
1 megawatt (MW)              =      1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 megavolt ampere (MVA)             1,000 kilovolt amperes (kVA)
I gigawatt hour (GWh)        =      1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
1 kilometer (km)             =      1,000 meters (m)
1 meter (m)                  =      100 centimeters (cm)
1 hectare (ha)               =      10,000 square meters (sq m)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARD      -      Office of the Accelerated Rural Development
ARE      -      Accelerated Rural Electrification
CIDA     -      Canadian International Development Agency
CPPD     -      Committee for Power Policy and Development
EGAT     -      Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
IER      -      Internal Economic Rate of Return
IFR      -      Internal Financial Rate of Return
KFWI     -      Kreditanstalt fuer Weideraufau (Germany)
NfEA     -      Metropolitan Electricity Authority
OECF     -      Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
OPEC     -      OPEC Special Fund
PEA      -      Provincial Electricity Authority
RID      -      Royal Irrigation Department
FISCAL YEAR
THAILAND: October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE wNLY
THAILAND
ACCELERATED RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA)
Guarantor:      Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:         US$25 million equivalent
Terms:           20 years including a grace period of 5 years, with interest at
7.45% per annum.
Project         The Accelerated Rural. Electrification Project forms part of the
Description:    first stage of the Provincial Electricity Authority's rural
electrification program (FY77-83), which aims to electrify
about 19,000 villages by 1983. Under the project, electricity
will reach an estimated 675,000 households and a population
of about 5 million spread over about 3,825 villages (about 20%
of the total villages in the region) in 16 provinces in the
Northeast, and about 740 villages in 4 provinces (Chiang Mai,
Nakhon Sawan, Chonburi, and Songkhla), located respectively in
the Northern, Central, Eastern and Southern regions of Thailand.
The project villages have been selected because of their high
population density, their proximity to roads and power lines
and their role as market and service centers for the surrounding
less populated and comparatively remote villages.
The project includes (a) construction of 1,660 km of 22/33 kv 3
phase main primary lines and 9,820 km of 22 kv, I phase
primary line taps; (b) 1,030 km of the existing 3 phase 22 kv
primary lines to be replaced with new conductors; (c) construc-
tion of 7,340 km of secondary lines (460/230v); (d) installa-
tion of 5,370 distribution transformers, 381,300 kwh meters,
31,000 streetlights; and (e) supply of lightening arrestors,
fuses, switches, feeder reclosures and the necessary vehicles,
equipment and tools for construction and installation.
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oflcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
Estimated Cost:
% of
-----US$ million ----------               Foreign
Project Items                        Local          Foreign          Total      Exchange
A. Material
Concrete Poles and
Accessories                      13.7             6.0            19.7
Conductors                          6.4             6.7            13.1
Transformers and Accessories         -              6.0             6.0
Switching, Protection and
Regulating Equipment               -              1.2             1.2
Meters and House Wiring              3.1            5.1             8.2
Street lights and improve-
ment of existing system           0.3             1.3             1.6
Subtotal                      23.5           26.3            49.8      45.3
B. Equipment, tools, vehicles
and warehouse facilities          1.1             2.1            3.2       2.9
C. Other
Labor cost                        4.2               -             4.2
Transportation                    1.7               -             1.7
Engineering and supervision    1.3                  -            1.3
Duties and taxes                 18.0               -           18.0
Overhead and indirect             4.0               -            4.0
Subtotal                 29.2                           29.2      26.5
D. Contingencies
Physical                              2.7            1.5             4.2
Price                               12.7             8.5           21.2
Subtotal                 15.4            10.0           25.4      23.1
E.  Load promotion                      0.8            1.6             2.4       2.2
Total project cost           70.0           40.0           110.0   100.0
Financing Plan:
Source             Local          Foreign         Total
PEA                  70.0              -           70.00
CIDA                    -            8.0            8.00
OPEC Special Fund       -            7.0            7.00
IBRD                    -           25.0          25.00
Total              70.0           40.0         110.00



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year              1979   1980    1981    1982    1983
---------- US$ Million -----------
Annual                    5.0    6.0      6.0      5.5      2.5
Cumulative                5.0   11.0    17.0    22.5    25.0
Rate of Return:  Tne Internal Economic Rate of Return for the project is 12%.
Appraisal Report:  No. 1467-TH dated February 1, 1978.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE PROVINCIAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR AN ACCELERATED RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
*  1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Provincial Electricity Authority of Thailand, with the guarantee
of the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $25 million to help finance
an Accelerated Rural Electrification Project.  The loan would have a term of
20 years, including 5 years' grace, with interest at 7.45% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /L
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on the Current Economic
Situation and Prospects of Thailand" (1280A-TH, dated October 29, 1976) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in November 1976 and to members of the
Consultative Group for Thailand in February 1977. A basic economic mission
visited Thailand in November 1977 and its preliminary findings have been
incorporated in the following paragraphs. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political and Economic Development
3.        The Government of Prime Minister Thanin, which was installed follow-
ing the assumption of power by the National Administrative Reform Council
(NARC) in October 1976, lasted one year. On October 20, 1977, members of
the NARC, dissatisfied with the Thanin Government's domestic and foreign
policies and its 16-year timetable for restoring democratic processes, ousted
the Prime Minister and his cabinet. The NARC then reconstituted itself as
the National Policy Council, the highest political authority in the country.
An interim constitution was promulgated which required a general election to
be held in a year's time and the drafting of a new permanent constitution,
which has been initiated. In November, the National Policy Council appointed
General Kriangsak Chomanan as the new Prime Minister who then formed a
cabinet comprised mostly of civilians. The new government affirmed its
support of the objectives of the country's Fourth Five Year National Economic
and Social Development Plan (1977-81) and announced its intention to undertake
more aggressive development policies. Its principal concerns are alleviating
rural poverty, particularly in the Northeast, and improving relations with
neighboring socialist countries. Since December, 1977, steps have been taken
to normalize relations with Laos, Viet Nam and Cambodia.
/L Parts I and II of this report are essentially the same as in the recent
President's Report (No. P-2214-TH dated February 2, 1978) for the Sixth
Highway (Provincial Roads) Project in Thailand, distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 2, 1978.



-2-
4.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  Rapid
growth of the agricultural and industrial sectors, which recorded average
annual growth rates in constant prices of 5% and 10%, respectively, enabled
real GDP to expand at an average rate of about 7.5% annually. The country
also achieved impressive investment and savings rates throughout this period.
Gross domestic capital formation ranged from 20 to 27% of GDP, with private
investment constituting two-thirds of total investment. The share of gross
domestic savings in GDP ranged from 19 to 24%. As a result, in no year did
the resource gap (import surplus needed to realize the levels of consumption
and investment achieved) cxccad 5% of GDrP, and was considerably less in most
years.
5.        During the international recession of 1974/75, the economy demon-
strated considerable resilience; it has now recovered from the deceleration
of growth which marked the second half of 1974. The growth rate of real GDP
rose from 4.6% in 1974 and 5.5% in 1975 to 6.3% in 1976, and between 6% and
7% estimated for 1977. In sharp contrast to the situation in 1973/74, when
the external sector and private investment provided the main impetus to
growth, the much-needed stimuli to demand in 1975 and 1976 came from the
public sector, with a strong expansion in export receipts reinforcing the
growth of domestic demand in the latter year.
6.        The balance of payments has deteriorated in recent years, however,
despite continued rap4id rise *. export earnings. Both 1975 and 1976 registered
much higher current account deficits than occurred in previous years ($600 mil-
lion in 1975 and $450 million in 1976 compared to $50 million in 1973 and
$90 million in 1974). A large part of these deficits was due to the decline
in Thailand's terms of trade by 24% between 1973 and 1976. The import price
index rose by 60% in 1974, mainly due to the hike in oil prices; however,
a substantial improvement in prices of most of the country's major exports
helped to limit the decline in the terms of trade in that year to less than
10%. In 1975 and 1976 there were moderate import price increases but stable
or falling export prices led to a further substantial fall in the terms of
trade. In 1977, despite an unprecedented high level of exports, the current
account deficit is estimated to be in excess of $900 million.
7.        As a consequence of the higher current account deficit and lower
net capital inflows, reserves,  Aiich had increased in 1974, declined by $195
million in 1975.  Although there was some improvement in foreign direct
investment, total private inflows declined further in 1976. Capital inflows
to the public sector, on the other hand, increased substantially as the
Government's first borrowing from a syndicate of private banks of $100 mil-
lion was drawn down and project loans committed in 1974/75 began to be
disbursed. Taking into account an SDR 67 million loan under the compensatory
financing scheme of the IMF, the overall balance of payments in 1976 recorded
a small surplus but is expected to show a deficit of about $300 million in
1977, to be financed mainly by drawing on reserves. The country's net reserves
in September 1977 amounted to $1.3 billion, equivalent to slightly over 3
months' imports, as compared to a reserve level of almost 6 months' imports
equivalent at the end of 1974.



-3-
8.        Tihailand enjoyed a large measure of price stability in 1975 and
1976. Slower demand growth, stable export prices and a moderate increase in
import prices contained the rise in the consumer price index to 5.3% in 1975
and 4.2% in 1976, a sharp deceleration from an annual average increase of 20%
in 1973 and 1974. Inflation is increasing somewhat in 1977 with the rise in
the Consumer Price Index expected to be in the 8-9% range.
Development Objectives, Constraints and Prospects
,.        The new Government's policy concerns and development strategies are
reflected in the Fourth Plan (1977-81). The Plan's principal objectives
include a growth target of 7%, equitable distribution of income, reduction in
the rate of population growth, faster generation of employment opportunities
and a balanced development of the different regions. Projected public sector
development expenditures amount to $12.5 billion for the Plan period as
compared to an estimated level of $4.6 billion achieved over the Third Plan
(1972-76). Nevertheless, the Plan addresses sectoral issues and strategies
only in broad terms, and concrete policy and programs to meet the Plan's
economic and social objectives remain to be defined. The Bank has therefore
recently begun an intensive program of economic studies to help the Government
define a policy and investment framework for implementation of the Fourth
Plan. These studies as well as concurrent work under way within the Government
are focusing on problems of employment and income distribution and will help
to uetter deiine the policy issues involved.
10.       While these studies are progressing, preliminary findings indicate
that the Thai economy has many positive features which augur well for rapid
and broadly distributed growth. These include the sustained rapid rate of
economic growth over the past two decades; relatively equitable distribution
of rural land; responsiveness of Thai farmers to superior technology; extensive
provision of infrastructure by the Thai Government; dynamism of the private
sector in both industry and agriculture; and, finally, the major gains made in
family planning in recent years. From the high population growth of 3%
annually during 1960s, the rate of growth had slowed to 2.6% in 1976 and 2.5%
in end 1977. However, social and economic progress in the future is likely
to require a more active role on the part of the Government if the goals of
the Plan are to be achieved.
11.       Agricultural growth in the past has been based to a large exteat on
expansion of cultivated areas.  Prospect for further expansion of cultivated
areas is now limited and future growth of the sector will have to be based
mainly on more intensive utilization of cultivated area, improvement in yieldsi
continued diversification of crops including, in some areas, different forms
of cropping patterns and farming practices, and availability of agricultural
credit. All of these would require increased Government assistance to the
private rural sector. Furthermore, a significant part of the rural population,
particularly in the north and northeast regions, has not fully participated
from the recent growth in rural income, and special programs will have to be
formulated to accelerate income growth in these areas. In the past, public
rural investment has concentrated on the expansion of the irrigation network
in the central plain. A greater effort is now required to develop upland and
other rainfed areas through research, extension services and rural infrastruc-
ture development.  Income levels of farmers in these areas are much lower than



- 4 -
in the irrigated areas and their increased productivity is necessary to ensure
continued growth of the agricultural sector as well as to improve the distri-
bution of income.
12.       While growth in the agricultural sector may be expected to remain
fairly rapid for some time to come, the impetus for future growth will have
to come increasingly from the industrial sector. Industry, construction
and services, will have to provide an increasing share of employment and
income opportunities for the growing population. Industrial policy and
programs should be designed to create jobs for the rapidly growing labor
force at increasing levels of productivity and wages. Greater effort will be
required to encourage the location of industries outside Bangkok, and to
promote small-scale and rural industries. While continued rapid growth of
manufactured exports remains feasible, the large domestic rural sector also
offers opportunities for a balanced industrial growth strategy based on
production of low-income consumer goods, agricultural inputs and equipment,
and processed agricultural products as well as on production for foreign
markets. The industrial sector has also developed to a stage where basic
industries such as steel and chemicals and harnessing of natural gas potential
could also contribute to future growth.
13.       A central development issue in Thailand today, therefore, is managing
the transition from an economy whose growth is based on the extension of land
under cultivation and import substitution industries to one based on increas-
ingly intensive use of land and on industries producing for domestic and export
markets under competitive conditions. Effective policies and programs will be
necessary to ensure that economic growth is maintained and income disparity
not widened during this period of transition.
14.       In the past, the Government's role has been confined largely to
short-term economic management, where it's performance has been good, and to
the provision of basic economic and social services. In order to achieve a
relatively smooth transition, the Government will have to undertake more
coordinated and longer-term actions. This implies that an integrated and
carefully planned program of reform of public institutions will have to be
implemented. Such a program should be carried out systematically and gradually
over a period of years and would need to include: (a) changes in the system
of personnel management; (b) improving the capacity of ministries to plan,
monitor and control activities of their respective departments; (c) greater
decentralization of decision-making to the provincial and local levels; and
(d) rationalization of the functions of, and coordination among, the central
government agencies responsible for planning, budgeting, staffing and economic
management.
15.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will require a steady increase in public expendi-
tures over the next few years. Public expenditures have increased substanti-
ally in nominal terms since 1974, but these increases have merely restored
the share of the public sector in the country's expenditures to that prevailing
before 1973-74, when public spending declined in real terms as a result of
an anti-inflationary policy. A reasonably ambitious development program for
the next few years will therefore require much greater efforts to mobilize



- 5 -
both domestic and external resources-than in the past. Government domestic
revenue as a percentage of GNP (13.4% in 1976) was low compared to other
developing countries at similar levels of development due to low tax rates,
high exemptions and a somewhat below average rate of compliance. Improved
resource mobilization through increased taxation of property and income and
better collection efforts will make the tax system more progressive. Such
changes would also make it feasible to reduce taxation of foreign trade, partic-
ularly on rice and other exports, which has inhibited agricultural growth.
16.       The deterioration in the country's terms of trade has raised substan-
tially the external capital flows needed for achieving a satisfactory rate of
growth. The financing of the tentative investment program of the Fourth Plan
is likely to require commitments of about $3-3.5 billion in project financing
and further public borrowing of $500-700 million through sources such as
Eurocurrency loans, suppliers' credits and industrial countries' export
financing facilities. This public sector borrowing program would raise the
public debt service ratio (service payments on public debt as a percentage of
exports) from 2.6% in 1975 to 4.7% in 1981. Although the service ratio for
total debt, which amounted to 13.4% in 1976, is projected to remain below 17%
throughout the Fourth Plan period, the unfavorable development of the country's
balance of payments since 1974 and the significantly larger role required of
the public sector to maintain growth in the future justify some concessionality
in the foreign financing of government projects. At their meeting of March 22
and 23, 1977, members of the Consultative Group considered these projected
amounts of external borrowing reasonable and supported the Government's
objective to seek a major part of such financing on concessional terms. It
therefore seems appropriate to include a limited amount of IDA credits in the
Bank Group's lending to Thailand. In addition, external agencies, including
the Bank Group, have in recent years increasingly concentrated project lending
to Thailand in the agricultural and social sectors that have high social
benefits but low foreign exchange components. To achieve the higher level of
external resource transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in selected
projects when the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some local
currency expenditure.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
17.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank in 1950 and has received
41 loans amounting to $998.4 million, net of cancellations. Most of these
have been for transportation ($186.0 million), irrigation ($218.8 million)
and power ($216 million) with, in addition, one for a dual-purpose power and
irrigation project ($65.8 million). The remaining loans have been for water
supply ($55 million), telecommunications ($63 million), education ($52.3
million), industry ($38 million), rural development ($21 million), livestock
($5 million), rubber replanting ($50 million) and national agricultural
extension ($28 million), with the rural development and livestock loans
having been made on Third Window terms. One loan for an industrial estate
project ($4.75 million) has been signed but is not yet effective. In addition,
Thailand has received four IDA credits: $19.5 million for education and one of
$33.1 million for a population project (approved in February 1978, but not yet
signed); and two credits totalling $12.5 million for irrigation improvement.



-6-
In general, Bank-financed projects have been carried out satisfactorily and in
accordance with expectations. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of December 31, 1977, as well as
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       Over the past year, loans have been approved for national agricul-
tural extension, irrigation, power and industrial development. In the current
two-year cycle, projects to support a broad range of agricultural development,
rural infrastructure, education, small- and medium-scale industries, popula-
tion and low-cost housing and neighborhood improvement would account for
about two thirds of the proposed program. Continued lending is also planned
for power, including rural electrification and natural gas development.
In transportation, the emphasis has shifted from major highways to provincial
and rural roads and improvement of inland waterways and coastal ports.
19.       The Bank continues to diversify its lending program in Thailand
with the objective of assisting the Government expand its effort to improve
the distribution of income as well as to maintain a rapid rate of growth.
Increasingly, projects are selected and designed to spread development
benefits to the lower income groups and the more needy regions. One of the
main functions of the Bank's regional mission in Bangkok is to assist the
Government in developing projects to meet these objectives.
20.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$309 million, as of December 31, 1976, representing about 38% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall public external debt (5.2% of GDP in 1976). In
addition, although the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over
the next five years, the Bank Group's share is projected to decline below
30% of total public external debt by 1982. The Bank's share in total debt
outstanding would remain at about 20%, and its share of debt service is
not expected to exceed 10%.
21.       IFC has made two equity investments totaling $380,000 in the
Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand; two loans and an investment,
totaling $32.08 million, in the Siam Cement group; a loan of $300,000 to
Concrete Products; an equity investment of about $300,000 in Mutual Fund
Company; and, more recently, a loan of $2.5  mad an equity investment
of $200,000 in United Sugar Terminal Company. IFC has also completed the
appraisal of two projects: one for producing carbon black and another for
small- and medium-scale enterprises to be administered by a local commercial
bank. Prospects for other IFC operations are reasonably good. IFC has been
asked to arrange the debt financing of approximately $50 million for a $90 mil-
lion zinc mining and refinery project. Other likely operations are the devel-
opment of privately sponsored industrial estates and two projects to expand
cement production. At the Government's request, the Capital Markets Department
carried out a reorganization study of the Government Housing Bank, which is
currently being implemented by the latter institution.



-7-
PART III - THE ELECTRICITY SECTOR
Sector Utilities
22.       Historically, the three state enterprises comprising the sector have
operated as separate autonomous agencies without a formal structure to coor-
dinate their functions, investments and financing requirements. These are:
the Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) and the Metropolitan Electricity
Authority (MEA), both under the MinLStry of lnterior, and the Electricity
Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT), which reports to the Office of the
Prime Minister. There are 53 small franchises, many of which are being taken
over by PEA.
23.       EGAT has major responsibility for power generation and transmission
and sells power in bulk to large industrial consumers and to MEA and PEA.
EGAT generated 91.4% (9,414 GWh) of all power (10,295 GWh) in Thailand in
FY76; the balance was generated by PEA, self-generating industries and private
franchises.   MEA purchases power from EGAT and supplies electricity to the
Bangkok Metropolitan area covering the provinces of Bangkok, Thon Buri,
Nonthaburi and Samut Prakon. In FY76, 5,285 GWh were sold to 544,700 consumers.
PEA provides electricity throughout Thailand except in the area served by MEA.
In FY76, 2,617 GWh were sold to 927,400 consumers. PEA purchases most of
its energy in bulk from EGAT but also generates electricity in areas not yet
connected to the grid.
Energy and Resources Requirements
24.       Thailand's energy resources consist of hydro-power, limited petro-
leum and coal and large, but as yet uneconomical, oil shale deposits. The
hydro potential (excluding that of two international rivers, the Mekong and
Salween) totals about 11,000 MW, of which only 909 MW or 8.8% are presently
exploited. Coal deposits are estimated at about 150 million tons, of which
about 75 million tons can be commercially exploited. The only petroleum
resources which have been brought into production yield less than 20,000 tons
of oil equivalent (less than 0.3% of total petroleum consumption). Recent
off-shore drillings in the Gulf of Thailand indicate the possibility of gas
deposits which could help replace more than 80% of annual fuel oil consumption
which, in 1976, amounted to 3.3 million tons of oil equivalent.
25.       Sector growth has been considerable.  Electricity demand and genera-
tion grew by about 16% and 19% respectively, each year over the past decade,
reaching 1,763 MW and 9,826 GWh, respectively, in 1976. Electricity demand is
expected to continue growing rapidly and is expected to reach, by 1986, about
4,272 MW, a very large increase in both relative and absolute terms. The
Government has an ambitious program to expand generating capacity to about
5,815 MW, which should be able to meet this demand. A large part of the
increased demand is expected to come from the rural sector where the Government,
in line with its objective of improving the welfare of the rural population,
has recently launched a program to accelerate electrification.



-8-
Sector's Financial Problems
26.       Until recently, the financial position of the sector had been
strors  a-? t -iff policies proved adequate.  In fact, all three agencies were
able to reduce their tariffs periodically due to conservative financial
management, economies of scale and consequent reduction in unit costs. The
picture altered with the fuel crisis in 1973. After decades of stable prices
in Thailand, tariffs were increased in 1974 by about 50% to compensate for
the increased cost of fuel to EGAT.
27.       Up to 1975, the individual needs of the utilities largely dictated
the structure of tariffs. The rates were higher in provincial areas because
of the higher costs of distribution and lower load factors. In 1975, PEA's
residential rates were reduced to MEA's level to promote rural electrification,
PEA's revenue losses since have been compensated by increasing EGAT's and
MEA's tariffs for their industrial consumers, and the proceeds channeled to
PEA by EGAT charging MEA higher tariffs for bulk power than those charged PEA.
Concurrently, to protect consumers, the Government subsidized the price of
fuel oil purchased by EGAT and exempted EGAT and MEA from the payment of
taxes. With sector tariffs trailing behind rising operating and construction
costs, cash generation from the sector became inadequate to maintain the
sector's financial viability.
28.       In 1976, the Government reaffirmed its decision to move ahead
rapidly with its rural electrification program. Faced with a deteriorating
financial situation in the sector, the Government invited Bank staff to visit
Thailand to: (a) determine an economically justifiable time frame for rural
electrification; (b) review the financial requirements of the power sector;
and (c) recommend measures necessary to maintain the sector's financial
viability. The Bank staff's review determined that resource mobilization from
the sector had declined substantially in recent years; in FY70 almost 90%
(internal funds and tax payments) of sector investments were raised within the
sector whereas the percentage had declined to 45% by FY75. After completing a
detailed analysis of the sector investment requirements and the availability
of financial resources, Bank staff concluded in its report to the Government
(Power Sector Report, 1977) that an economically justifiable time frame for
the Government's National Rural Electrification Program would be 20 years.
The total sector investments, during the period 1976-85, would amount to about
$3.5 billion, of which about $760 million would be needed to finance the
rural electrification programs. The Bank's report also concluded that the
introduction of a uniform tariff structure throughout Thailand, with average
tariff levels generally comparable to those currently existing in neighboring
countries, could provide the sector with adequate self-financing and establish
the financial base for future borrowings.
29.       To return the sector to a sound financial position and to enable
the Bank to support the Government's rural electrification program, the
staff made the following near-term recommendations: (a) restoring fuel
taxes and custom duties; (b) removal of fuel oil subsidy to EGAT; (c) pro-
vision of an adjustment clause in EGAT's tariff schedule so that variations
in fuel costs are automatically passed on to consumers; and (d) an increase
in average tariffs for FY77-79 to cover the sector's financial gap between



-9-
proposed borrowings and estimated construction costs as well as to compensate
for (a) and (b) above and the oil price increase of December 1976. The
staff also recommended that a tariff study should be undertaken to establish
a simplified but uniform tariff system which reflects, as closely as possible,
the costs to the economy of meeting the demand for electricity. The tariff
system would also ensure that sector revenues were adequate to meet the
sector's financial objectives and to provide for any income distribution
objectives (e.g., subsidizing poor consumers).
30.       The Government has acted upon all the above recommendations.  It
approved and implemented, on August 1, 1977, an increase in sector tariffs
averaging about 29%; discontinued subsidizing the cost of fuel to EGAT;
restored fuel taxes; and introduced a fuel adjustment clause in EGAT's tariff
schedule (Ln. 1485-TH). The tariff study is being carried out under the
Pattani project (Ln. 1485-TH) and those recommendations agreed between the
Government and the Bank will be implemented by June 30, 1979 (Sections 3.02
and 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
31.       These steps undertaken by the Government have restored the financial
viability of the utilities, removed the need for further budgetary assistance
and enabled them to contribute to government revenues. However, the large
financial requirements of PEA's rural electrification program called for further
sector measures before the arrangements for the proposed loan could be completed.
These measures included the need for effective functional coordination of the
sector as a whole; ensuring that PEA has adequate funds under the cross funding
arrangements (through EGAT) with MEA; and providing necessary protection to PEA
against cost increases due to increases in fuel oil prices.
32.       To improve sector coordination, the Government has taken a major
step in establishing the Committee for Power Policy and Development (CPPD),
in March 1977, under the Chairmanship of the Deputy Prime Minister. The
Government has agreed to maintain CPPD (or some similar body that the Govern-
ment may establish) for overseeing the functioning and development of the
sector.  More specifically, CPPD would review, through 1983, annual forecasts
of-the investment programs of MEA, PEA and EGAT, and would ensure that consumer
tariffs are set at levels adequate for the sector as a whole to produce a
rate of return of 7% for FY78 and FY79 (based on 29% tariff increase implemen-
ted in August 1977) and 9% in FY80 and thereafter (on the average current net
value of the sector's fixed assets in service). (Section 3.02 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
33.       The sector rate of return (para. 32) would require that PEA and
other utilities together generate sufficient internal cash to carry out
their programs. On PEA's part tariffs will be set at levels that would
enable PEA to earn an annual rate of return (on a revalued rate base) which
is consistent with the achievement of the sector's rate of return.  PEA
would prepare annual forecasts, acceptable to the Bank, in order to review
the adequacy of its tariffs and take all measures, including seeking govern-
ment authorization for adjustments of the structure or levels of electricity
tariffs (Section 5.04 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement). On the basis of
current forecasts, PEA is expected to earn an annual rate of return of about
9% from FY78 through FY83.



- 10 -
Rural Electrification (1968-1976)
34.       Electrification of the provincial areas has shown rapid growth since
it began on a planned basis in 1960 when PEA was established. Nevertheless,
the degree of electrification in rural areas improved only from 9.5% to 17.7%
between FY68 and FY76, largely because of the relatively high population
increase (2.7% per year) and the fact that PEA had to concentrate its efforts
initially on connecting urban and semi-urban areas to the grid. PEA has only
recently been able to launch a major effort to give power to rural areas. As
a result of these efforts, the annual ratc cf "41a-ge connections has improved
significantly; on average, only about 450 villages were connected annually
until 1973, but 940 villages were connected in 1974, 1,440 in 1975 and 2,200
in 1976. In all, PEA's ongoing programs had extended electric supply to
10,000 villages by the end of 1976, or about 20% of the estimated 48,000
villages in Thailand. In Northeast Thailand, the proportion was smaller; only
2,040 villages, or 10%, had electricity out of a total of 20,200 villages.
PEA's Rural Electrification Program (FY77-83)
35.       PEA's 20-year program (para. 28) aims to electrify all villages in
Thailand and is divided into three phases. The FY77-83 Program comprises the
first seven-year phase in which electricity will be provided to about 19,000
villages, or about 40% of all villages. 1,800 villages were connected in FY77
and during FY78 and FY83, connections w.ill ris from about 2,000 villages per
annum to over 3,000 by 1983 (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). As a
part of this Program, the proposed project, namely, the Accelerated Rural
Electrification project (ARE), will cover about 4,500 villages and the balance
of 14,500 vilages will be electrified through PEA's ongoing projects. These
ongoing projects include the Tambon project and the Village Electrification
project, which together will electrify about 10,300 villages during FY77-83.
The institutional and financial arrangements for these other projects are
different from the proposed ARE project but it is intended that over the next
few years they will all be modified in line with the arrangements under ARE.
Financing of PEA's FY77-FY83 Program
36.       PEA's large program of electrification will increase its asset base
threefold between FY77 and FY83.  Capital expendi-tures to meet the required
construction program are estimated at about $760 million equivalent, of which,
about $230 million (30%) would be borrowed abroad; about $240 million (32%)
will be raised through local borrowings; $20 million (3.0%) was provided as
Government equity; and about $270 million (35.0%) is expected to be financed
from internal cash generation. However, the Government has agreed to make up
any shortfalls that may occur in the event that PEA's available funds are
inadequate to carry out the FY77-FY83 Program (Section 3.04(b) of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
Bank Lending
37.       The Bank has helped finance eight projects, with loans to EGAT
totalling $282-million, for dam construction, equipment for hydro/thermal
power generation and transmission and substation facilities. Six projects



have been completed and are operating satisfactorily and two are under con-
struction. The most recent power loan (Ln 1485-TH) is helping to finance the
Pattani Hydroelectric Project, which includes expansion of generating capacity
to support the planned rural electrification in Southern Thailand. The
proposed loan would be the first Bank loan to PEA and would help finance that
part of its rural electrification program which is directed towards the most
disadvantaged region of Thailand.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
38.       Several external agencies, including Kreditanstalt Fuer Weideraufbau
(KFW), Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFD), and the Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF), have supported PEA's electrification programs
in the past. In addition, the Bank is helping the electrification of 346 vil-
lages under the Northeast Rural Development Project (Ln. 1198-TH). The
proposed Accelerated Rural Electrification (ARE) Project, which forms part of
the first seven year slice of PEA's FY77-83 Program (para. 35), was appraised
in November/December 1976. Negotiations were held in Washington from November
28 to December 2, 1977. The Thai delegation was led by HE Dr. Arun Panupong,
Thailand's Ambassador to the United States, assisted by Khun Vira Pitrachat,
General Manager, PEA (the Borrower) and Khun Kraisri Chatikavanij (Ministry of
Finance).
The Project
39.       Villages included in the proposed ARE project have been selected
because of their high population density, their proximity to roads and power
lines and their role as market and service centers for the surrounding less
populated and comparatively remote villages. Electricity will reach an
estimated population of about 5 million in 675,000 households spread over
about 3,825 villages (about 20% of the total villages in the region) in
16 provinces in the Northeast and about 740 villages in 4 provinces (Chiang
Mai, Nakhon Sawan, Chonburi, and Songkhla) located, respectively, in the
Northern, Central, Eastern and Southern Regions of Thailand.
40.       The ARE project includes:  (a) construction of about 1,660 km of
22/33 kv 3 phase main primary lines and 9,820 km of 22 kv, I phase primary
line taps; (b) 1,030 km of the existing 3 phase 22 kv primary lines to be
replaced with new conductors; (c) construction of 7,340 km of secondary lines
(460/230v); (d) installation of 5,370 distribution transformers, 381,300 kwh
meters and 31,000 streetlights; and (e) supply of lightning arrestors, fuses,
switches, feeder reclosures and the necessary vehicles, equipment and tools
for construction and installation. Details are given in the report entitled
"Thailand - Appraisal of the Accelerated Rural Electrification Project"
(No. 1467-TH dated February 1, 1978) which is being distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors separately. Annex III of this report incorporates key dates,
implementation action and the special conditions for the project.



- 12 -
Cost Estimates and Financing Arrangements
41.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is estimated
at about qiiO million, and has a foreign exchange component of about $40 mil-
lion. The proposed Bank loan of US$25.0 million would finance the foreign
exchange costs of distribution line accessories; transformers; switching,
protection and regulating equipment; meters and wiring; construction, test and
communications equipment; and tools and vehicles. The loan would also provide
the foreign exchange costs of converting the existing equipment in project
areas to electric pumps and motors under the load promotion program. (Details
are given in the Loan and Project Summary.) Local costs of about US$70 mil-
lion equivalent would be financed by PEA's internal funds and through local
borrowing. The Government has completed arrangements to obtain a loan of
about US$7.0 million equivalent, from the OPEC Special Fund, to finance the
foreign exchange costs of locally manufactured concrete poles, and another
loan from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) of about
US$8.0 million equivalent, to finance the foreign exhange cost of aluminum and
copper ingots for conductors and house wiring. Effectiveness of the loan
agreements between the Government, the OPEC Special Fund and CIDA and the
agreements for relending the proceeds of these loans by the Government to PEA
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan (Section 7.01
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Contingencies
42.       Total contingencies amount to 31% of base (end 1976) costs.  Physical
contingencies were assumed to be 5% for all items. Price contingencies for
foreign costs were derived by applying escalation rates of 7.5% for 1977-79
and 7% thereafter.  The price contingencies for local costs were assumed to be
6% per annum based on the 1977 rate of inflation in Thailand. Price contingen-
cies represent about 25% of base cost at and 1976 price levels. Given the
short lead time required for power distribution projects the price contingency
provisions are considered reasonable.
Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA)
43.       PEA, the borrower, has grown rapidly to become a large, well organ-
ized utility and by end 1976, it had 8,028 employees, 927,400 consumers, and
was operating 11,200 km of 22 KV line with 1430 MVA of transformer capacity.
The Minister of Interior is the Chairman of a ten-member Board of Directors
and PEA's chief executive, the General Manager, is an ex-officio member. The
management and staff are able and well-qualified. PEA operates a training
school for lower level staff; higher level staff have benefitted from academic
scholarships overseas and short-term training with utilities in Germany. PEA
carries out its operations through electric works offices located throughout
the country. In all there are 12 regional, 67 provincial, 439 district and
301 tambon offices. Over the 1970-76 period, PEA's investment program totalled
$118 million, increasing from about $7 million in 1970 to $35 million in 1976.
Losses had decreased from about 15% to 9% while sales increased annually at an
annual average rate of 23%. Also, PEA's efficiency improved, demonstrated by
the increase from 85 to 116 in number of consumers per employee. However,



- 13 -
PEA's program of rural electrification has not proceeded as rapidly as was
intended because of delays in raising loans and external financial assistance;
late approval of PEA's investment programs, resulting in delayed procurement
of distribution materials and equipment; and lack of coordination among
sector utilities.
PEA's Financial Position
44.       PEA's financial position was sound at the end of FY76.  Over the
past seven years, rates of return (on average net fixed assets in operation)
varied from about 9% to 16%; for FY76 the rate of return was about 13%. Debt
service coverage on an annual basis was better than 4.0 times each year.
Self-financing averaged 76% and for FY76 was 59%. The debt equity ratio at
end FY76 was 48:52 having increased from 31:69 in FY75. Long-term debt more
than doubled during FY76 as PEA borrowed locally to finance its rural electri-
fication program.
Future Operating Results (FY77-FY83)
45.       PEA is expected to maintain an excellent growth rate during FY77-83.
Energy sales are expected to increase from 3,185 GWh in FY77 to 7,924 GWh in
FY83, an average annual growth rate of about 17%. The operating ratio would
remain around 90% throughout this period. The debt/equity ratio would vary
between 54:46 and 59:41. Debt service coverage on an annual basis varies
between a minimum of 1.5 times (FY83) and 4.8 times (FY77) (Section 5.05 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Implementation and Construction
46.       PEA has the necessary design and construction capability to implement
the proposed project and no outside consulting services will be required.
Consultants have been used in the past for supervising and advising on projects
financed by KFW and OECF. Consultants were also used for the economic and
feasibility studies required to launch the ARE program. PEA's Office of
Accelerated Rural Electrification will be directly responsible for the coor-
dination of the ARE project and to ensure that the FY77-83 Program proceeds
according to schedule. This office will also be responsible for preparing and
implementing the Load Promotion and Monitoring Programs (para. 47). PEA
proposes to muster 20 crews, one for each province. Each crew would have
the required complement to connect about 4,000 homes in 50 villages each year,
installing about 125 km of primary and 80 km of secondary distribution lines
and 60 distribution transformers. The construction works, covering about
1,000 villages annually, will take about 4-1/2 years beginning mid-1978, when
procurement and preliminary works would have been completed. The rate of
village connections for the whole of PEA's program should not exceed 3,300 in
any year, which is well within PEA's implementation capacity. The distribution
lines generally run along main or village roads. The villagers welcome electric
services and PEA has experienced no difficulty in obtaining easement over farm
lands. PEA's Act' provides for compensation for lines which cross private land
but none was ever demanded nor paid.



- 14 -
The Load Promotion and Monitoring Programs
47.       Vigorous load promotion efforts could prove a catalyst for rural
development even though the project is of a pioneering nature, in that it
would provide electricity to rural areas having limited potential loads. PEA
will prepare and adopt a load promotion program, acceptable to the Bank,
by September 30, 1978 and by September 30, 1979 will make appropriate adminis-
trative arrangements for the implementation of such a program (Section 4.05 of
the draft Loan Agreement). The proposed Bank loan includes $1.6 million to
finance purchase of pumps, motors and other machinery for conversion to
electric power.  This load promotion program would be tailored to meet the
following objectives: (a) promote faster connection of houses by lending for
housewiring and initial connection charges; (b) promote the use of irrigation
pumps in cooperation with the Royal Irrigation Department (RID) and the Office
of Accelerated Rural Development; (c) convert existing diesel pumps to elec-
tricity by lending for their conversion; (d) acquire additional machinery
for village industries and provide loans for conversion of diesel engines used
by industry and small businesses to electric motors; (e) promote piped water
supplies by liaising with the appropriate local authorities; (f) promote
vocational and adult education in schools at night in cooperation with concerned
departments; and (g) educate the public in the various uses of electricity.
To gauge the overall impact of the project, including load promotion efforts,
on the living standards of the people in project villages and on development
of agriculture, agro-industries and business, PEA will implement a Monitoring
Program in selected project villages to develop an analysis of consumer demand
and cost of providing services (Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Audits and Accounts
48.       PEA's accounting system is good and the staff are competent.  PEA
would provide the Bank with annually audited accounts which are prepared
by the National Audit Council and are acceptable to the Bank (Section 5.02
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
49.       All equipment and materials to be financed by the proposed Bank
loan would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank Group's "Guidelines for Procurement" with the Bank's
usual preference of 15% (or customs duty, if less) being extended to local
manufacturers.  Minor items costing less than $50,000 each and up to an
aggregate amount of $1 million would be purchased through normal government
procurement procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Disbursements from
the proposed loan would be at the rate of 100% against the foreign exchange
costs of directly imported equipment and materials or the ex-factory cost net
of taxes for items manufactured locally, and 65% of total expenditures on
items procured locally.
Social and Economic Benefits
50.       The concentration of investment under ARE in provinces in the
Northeast is a critical component of the Government's programs to improve
income-earning opportunities and standard of living of the people in



- 15-
these areas. IDA and the Bank are assisting the Government in these programs.
Rapidly increased production of such cash crops as kenaf, cassava and maize,
which together earn nearly $200 million annually in exports, is changing the
Northeast Region from a subsistence rice farming economy to a semi-commercial
farm economy. Provision of electricity at the rate contemplated in the
proposed project is both timely and of economic importance to the Region as
the benefits would stem from demands of communities, households and businesses
for a cheaper and superior form of energy.
51.       T4odern public Infrastructure is taklg shape in ,-ral Northeast.
Since 1970, IDA and Bank financed projects in Northeast Thailand are helping
to improve farm management and farm incomes by improving rice yields and
agricultural extension services; upgrading rural infrastructure through
construction of access roads, rural electrification, village water supplies
and improved techniques for upland crop cultivation; helping develop pastures
for soil regeneration, improved animal production and dairy farming; and
expanding telephone communications, both local and long distance. The
Office of Accelerated Rural Development has a large village roads and water
supply program. It has constructed a network of over 6,000 km of laterite
feeder roads which have provided improved access from villages (heavily
dependent on cash crops) to the system of paved highways and secondary roads
developed with the assistance of the Bank's last five road projects in Thailand.
The Rural Health Division (Ministry of Health) has been upgrading clinics and
has provided hundreds of small villages with mobile health facilities and
wells for drinkable water. The Bank's four education projects have helped the
Government expand substantially the vocational, secondary and adult education
in Northeast Thailand. In support of the Government's policies to disperse
industry into regions, a national program for establishing industrial estates
in all the regions, including the Northeast, will be completed for implementa-
tion around 1980 under Loan 1492-TH. Load factor projections for the next
35 years indicate that, compared to the four provinces in other regions
covered under the project, energizing the Northeast, which is the poorest
region, would promote power use relatively more for nonresidential than for
residential purposes.
52.       The proposed project has significant economic benefits (the internal
economic rate of return for the project is 12%) and a high social content.
Most of the social benefits will accrue to the population with the lowest per
capita income in Thailand. Per capita income in the rural areas of the Northeast
was US$54 equivalent in 1971 compared to US$96 for the Northern region, which
has the second lowest per capita income in the country. Many of the benefits
of rural electrification cannot be quantified. However, about a third of the
benefits that can be quantified are recovered by tariff revenues and connection
charges; the rest of the quantifiable benefits are social benefits derived
from improvements in mass media (especially TV), extension services, informal
education, hygiene, child care and family planning methods, and rural life
style.



- 16 -
53.       Also included in these quantifiable benefits are kerosene and other
fuel cost savings, increased farm and industrial output, and sale of refriger-
ated products and ice. On the farm, electrically driven irrigation pumps
operate more cheaply and are cleaner than diesel engines and cheaper water for
irrigation helps multiple cropping and improved land yields. In villages,
electricity brightens homes and thereby extends work periods on farms to the
evenings and early mornings. Busy season labor shortages, which have a high
economic cost, are somewhat relieved and innovations and crop area extension
work is less hampered. In industry, considerable savings accrue in fuel costs
in the operation of workshops and rice mills and in substituting electricity
for manual labor; and small domestic businesses benefit from greater demand
for small electric appliances and products. Electricity also introduces
refrigeration to village shops (for perishable products, medicines, ice and
cold drinks), pumped water and illumination.
54.       Rates of Return.  Three separate analyses have been carried out to
determine the impact of the project on the areas covered, particularly the
Northeast Region, and to assess the estimated benefits of the proposed invest-
ment. The first analysis derived an internal economic rate of return which is
estimated at 12% by comparing the cost and benefit stream. These calculations
were based on EGAT's and PEA's marginal capital and operating costs of providing
the additional generation, transmission and distribution capacity over 35 years,
and the direct revenues and the economic benefits additional to direct revenues
(see paras. 52 and 53). The other two analyses were made to derive the internal
financial rate of return, taking only the proposed project in one instance and
the whole of PEA's FY77-83 Program in the other. The analysis which covered
only the proposed project produced an internal financial rate of return of
(minus) -3% based on forecast revenues and capital and operating costs over
35 years at 1977 price levels. For this calculation, revenues were derived
from forecast GWh sales using PEA's average price per kWh sold. Costs were
derived from EGAT's cost of bulk power to PEA and PEA's forecast marginal
costs of investment and operation, less taxes, for the project at 1977 price
levels. The third analysis covered the whole of PEA's FY77-83 Program and
gave an internal financial rate of return of 8% based on the costs of the
program, its operating costs over 35 years and EGAT's average price for bulk
power to the sector compared to the incremental revenue attributable to the
PEA program. Despite the significant economic content of the project, and the
fact that electricity will increase energy use in the area, reduce energy
costs and is far superior in quality to available alternatives, satisfactory
financial returns cannot be expected for some years because of high initial
investment costs, low initial demand compared to network capacity and often
the need to meet the social aims of cheap energy to low income households and
small businesses.
Risks
55.       PEA is capable of handling efficiently the construction and implemen-
tation of the rural electrification program. Nevertheless, the Government is
embarking on an ambitious program of accelerated rural electrification which
will require a high level of institutional capability and effective sector
coordination in addition to very heavy financial demands on the utilities con-
cerned and on the country. The manner in which the utilities and the Government



- 17 -
have addressed these institutional and financial problems in the past few years
gives us the confidence that they intend to face up to the hard decisions that
have to be made in terms of the future tariff policy and organizational arrange-
ments. This confidence has been reinforced by the Government's willingness to
obligate itself under agreements reached during negotiations on important
institutional and financial measures. Nevertheless, these institutional and
financial policies will require continuous attention by the Government and
the institutions concerned but this represents the normal risk associated with
such a program in a particularly poor region of a developing country.
Ecology
56.       The project would have no adverse ecological effects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Provincial Electricity Authority
of Thailand and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom
of Thailand and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
58.       Special conditions of the proposed project are listed in Section III
of Annex III of this report. Effectiveness of the Loan Agreements between
the Government, OPEC Special Fund and CIDA and the agreements for relending
the proceeds of these loans by the Government to PEA would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan.
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 15, 1978
Washington, D.C.






AMEX3 I
Page I. of ~ pages
TABLE 3A
THAILAND                SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND  AREA   (THOU   KM2)-- --- - -- --- --- --                               - -- - -- - --
---------------                        ~~~~THAILAND                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       S14.0I MOST RECENT
AGRIC.       144.1                         1960        1970    EST IMA TE          PHILIPPINES    KOREA REP.OF  ~JAPAN *
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                        100.0 *   210.0 *        80.0 A/a            230.0        280.0o      2630.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)               26.6        36.3   ~ 43.0 /a                 36.9         32.2        104.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                          52.0        71.0        84.o1                123.0        327.0       280.0
PER SQ. KMI. AGRICULTURAL LAND         212.0       263.0       298.0o~              375.0       1371.0       1744.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THGU, AV)             47.1       44.3        37.6                  44.2         35.0         17.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)              19.8       13.7         9.1                  13.2         11.4          7.1
INFANT MIORTALITY RATE (/THOU)             .        80.0        68.0                 80.0          60.0         13. 1
LIFE EPECTACY ATBIRTH (YRS)        49.0        55.5       58.0                  55.6         65.0         71.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    I.                    3                     3.3          2.6          1.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                     3.0        3.1         2.9                   3.0          2.3          1.0
URBAN                                     5.2        4.9         5.1                   4.0          6.4          4.0
URBAN POPULATION (II OF TOTAL)             12.7        15.0        16.5.    31.8                     41.2         84.4
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                           43.0       45.1           .                 45.6          42.1         24.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                          54.0        51.8           .                 51.6          54.5         68.9
65 YEARS AND OVER                         3.0         3.1          .                   2.8          3.4          7.1
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                        0.9         0.9          .                   0.9          0.8          0.S
ECONOMIIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  0.9 /       1.1k /a                          1.5          1.4          0.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMIULATIVE, THOU)              .       470.0'   2060.0                  354.0       4424.7
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)                 .        10.0        26.6                   2.0         42.0
EMP LOYM.ENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)            13700.0 A~1670O.0 A 17700.0                 12300 0      10200 0    53300.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)             82.0        79.0        76o 0                s:0L         5o'5 .       19.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)                 ..                    7.0k                 7.o          4'.5          1.2
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF P'TIVAIE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                21.8 "    22..0  Ic17142
HTGHEST 20% CF HOUSEHOLDS                50.9       si.   7.                            ..41.1                  14.2
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                 6.2                .     .                    .           7.5         37.6
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                14.9 j     l1.i.                                .1772.
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS.                             ....                                       28.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS                .....                                                   2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                     .      7g7g:0    6750.0i.                            218     80.0 / 
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON                       6 5  0    4330.0                      .        270.0 0       240.0
POPULATION PER HiOSPITAL BED            1340:0 /d  890:0         '170.0                850.0       1900.0         80.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF-
CALORIES 1% OF REQUIREMIENTS)            95.0     -103.0       107.0                100.0        103.0        106.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                 47.0        52 0        560    c             45.0         65.0         76.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE               .        17:0 Id   56..                   22.0          19.0        45.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                   .           ..                             9.0           ..1.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                                      81.0        83.0 /d             113.0        104.0        100.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                          7.0       16.0        19.0                 49.0         4'.0         91.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECO-ND LEVEL)               12.0        12.0        12.0                 10.0         12.0         12.o
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                        19.0        14.0 IA8  13.0  6de                ..oL/b     16.0         20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                       .        79.0       82.0o.                             87.0         99.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOMI (URBAN).                                ...                            2.1          2.7          1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                             ..                                       76.o         80.0 /d       5.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                                            63....  6 d.0 f      23.0         50.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONN4ECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                         .13. .               13.0/;g               7.0         30.0
CON SU.MPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)              6.0       78.0        76.0                  45.0        126.0       551.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOUU POP)              2.0         5.0        7.0         ~         8020                     84.
ELECTRCITY   h~WH/R PERCAP)         23.0      124.0       194.0                235.0        307.0       3391.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                   0.7         1.0         1.4                  2.0          3.5         18.9
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITION4S ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwis noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Estimate between
1973aod 1975.
GNP per rapita data are based on the World Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
Although Japan's GNP per capita Is much higher then thot of Thailand, Japon has been selected as an objective country because Thailand's
developmoent process can reasonably be measured agatnst that of Japan, an Asian country which is highly trade oriented, has moved frmo an
agriculturally based to as Industrially baced economy, and in doing so has retained its cultural distinction.
ThAILAND          1960    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to ecoonsoically active population age 11 and over;    /b  Economically
*ctive population age 11 and over;    /c  1962-63, rural only;    /d  1962.
1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to economically a-tive populetion age 11 and over;    /b  Economic-lly
active population age It -nd over;    /c  Rural only;    /d  1964-66;    /e  Public schools, which include technical
education at the post-secondary level.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE-    /I  1976;    /b  Bangkok only;    /c  1969-71 average;    /d  1971;    /e  Public schools which include
technicel education at the pooT-secondary level;    /f  ta percent of population in Bangkok metro-
politan area;    /   Other 67 provinces.
PHILIPPINES       1970    /a  Aa percentage of employment;    /b  Not including private vocational schools.
KOREA REP. OF   1970    /a  Governent *etinote is 38.0;    /b  As percentage of employment;    /c  Registered, not all practicing in the country;
/d water piped in ide.
R12, August 16, 1977
vEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
L-ArA-  (thou  as2)                                                                          Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of practicing
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland  .aters,                            sale and female graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" nurses, and
Arir.- Mo t recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or perma-                    auxiliary personel with training or eoperience.
neatly for crops. pasturct, market & bitches gardens  or to lie fallow.                    Posulatio- cer hoonital bed - Population dfvided by on-bar of hospital bad,
available in public and private general and speclali2ed hospital and
CNP rer capit. (iS$) - CNP per capits .stieatas at current market prices,                      rehabilitation centers; excludes nursing homes and establaishsents for
clculrted by sane conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 best.);                     custodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                  Per capita supply of calories (. of requirements) - Computed fron  nergy
equivalent of net food suppliea avilable in country per capita per day;
Population and vital atatiotic,                                                                 vailable supplies comprise domestic productioo, iports less exporta, and
Popolation (mid-year million)   As of July fir t:  if sot available,  verage                   changes in stock; not supplies exclude animal feed  seeds, quantities coed
of two esd-year eatimates; 1960, 1970  nd 1975 data.                                         in food processing and losee  in distribution; requirements were estimated
by PAO based on physiological needs for normal activity and health consid-
Pop,,laciom density - per square ko  - Mid-yesr population per square kilometer                ering enviroomental temperature, body waighta, oga and sex diatributiono  of
(100 hectares  of total  rea.                                                                population, and allo-ing 10% for waste at household level.
Population density - per square kh  of agric. lend - Computed as abowe for                   Per capita supply of protein (grama per day) - Protein content of per capita
agricultural land oly.                                                                       net supply of food per day; not supply of food is defined as above; require-
ments for a11 countries established by USDA Econmic Research Services
Vital tatistics                                                                                provide for a minimtum allowance of 60 gras of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rate par thouand, average - Annual live births per thoueand of                     20 gras  of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 gram, should be animal
mIJ-year population; teo-year aritlosetic  verages ending in 1960 end 1970,                  proetin; these standards are lower than those of 75 gras of total protein
snd five-year  verego ending in 1975 for mst recent eatimate.                                and 23 grea of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by FA0
Crude death rate per thousand. avarae - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year                  In the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year arithlnetic  -verages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-               Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
year averag  ending in 1975 for maot recent eatimate.                                        derived from animals and polies in gra x  per day.
infant nortality rate (/thou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year of age               Death rate (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
per thousand live births.                                                                    yesra, to children in this age group; suggested am an indicator of
lif  expectancy at birth (yre) - Average nunl>er of years of life remaining at                 malnutrition.
birth; usually five-yesr  vaerges  nding in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countries.                                                                             Education
Cr000 reproduction rate - Average nubher of live daughters a woman will bear                  Adjusted enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrollment of a11 age. as per-
in her normal reproductive period if ohs experiences present age-apecific                    c_ntage of primary school-age population; includes children aged 6-11 years
fettility ratea; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                    but adjusted for different length. of primary education; for countries with
for developing countries.                                                                    universal education, enrollment nay exceed 1007. since some pupils are below
Population tro,th rate (%) - total - Compound anual grwth rates of mid-year                     or above the official school age.
pop.latioo for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                               Adlusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; secondry
Population grwth rate (7) - urban - Computed like grwth rote of total                          education requires at least four years of approved primary inttruction;
population; different definitions of urban arema may affect comparability of                 provides general, vocational or teacher training ins tructions for pupils
data among countries,                                                                         of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally excluded.
Urban population (% of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                Years of schooling provided (first and second levels) - Total years of
definitioma of urban areas my sffsct comparability of data among countries,                   schooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction may be partially or
completely eccludd.
ic  structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-ege (15-64 years),                  Vocational enrollment (% of secondary) - Vocational institutions Include
and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-year population.                        technical, Indu trial or other progra ,ahich operate independently or am
_sre dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to those                  departments of secondary inatitutiona
of ages tS through 64.                                                                      Adult literacy  rate (7) - Literate adults (able to esd and write) as per-
Urvnoncic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                   centage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
t_nilY  PlenninR - acceptors (c   ulattve, thou) - Cunulative noasber of acceptors           honuinit
of birth-control devices under auspices of national faily planning progr-                  Persono per room  (urbhn) - Average .-hber of per.ans per room in occupied
SinCe inceptlon.                                                                             convttional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings exclude non-permanent
- -dlv planning - users fQ of married vwoenl - Percentages of married women of                  structures and unoccupied parts.
d!ld-bharlng  ge (15-44 years) who  s.e birth-control devices to a11 married              Occupied dwelling    irbhout piped wotnr (7) - Occupied conventional dwellings
aDen i, some age Sroup.                                                                     in urban and cural orea.  without innide or outside piped water facilities
as :percentage of all occupiedi dwellings.
at'                                                                                    Aces  to electricity (7. of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings w,ith
hot force (thousand) - Economically active persons, including armed                    electricity in living quarters  s per c. t of total dwiellngs In urban and
aorzce  nd unemployed but .sluding housewives., student, etc.; definitions                   rural areas.
In var     ..us countries are not comparable.                                              Rural dwellingz connected to electricity (7) - Computed as above for rural
or forte in agriculture (C) - Agricultural labor force (in farming, forestry,                  dwellings only.
-lclneg and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
"e aplEoved (t of labor force) - unemployed are uao-Ily defined s persona who                 Conewaption
or  able and willieg  arobtk. aob, mut of a job on a given day, remained out                Radio cecsive (per thou sop) - All types of recsivers for radia bro-dcast
of a Job, and eeking work for   epeciftied inimo  period not exceeding one                    to general public per thousand of population; encludes unlicensed receivrs
week; my not be coaparable between countries due to different definitions                     in countries and in years when registration of redio gets was in effct;
of unemployed and spurce of data, e.g., employment office statistics,  emple                  deta for recent years may not be comparable since most countries abolished
'"nvxe, coampulsory unemployment insurance.                                                   licening.
P'-Passenger carseprto   o)-Psegrcr  comprioe motor cars seating
Income distributixe - Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind)                      les  than eight persona; excludes  -bulsocer, hearses and military
receivad by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest 40% of house-                   vehicles.
holds.                                                                                      Electricity  (kwh/yr par cap) - Annual tonsuoptisn of industrial, coonercial,
public and private electricity is bilowatt honra per capita, generally
Vistribut.an of land ownership - Percentages of l-nd  wned by ..a.lthiest 107p based on productin data, without allowance for losses in grids but allow-
and poorest 107. of land o-ners,                                                              Ing for imports end exports of electricity.
Newsprint (kx/yr car cap - Per capita annual canaunprion in kilogramsm
slesIth and Nutrition                                                                           estimated ifser  doerstic production ;pus net imports of nevaprint.
PopulItion per physician - Population divided by number of practicing
physicians quslified frm a *adical school at seiveraity level.



A14NEX I
_aAe 3 of 4
ECONOMIIC DEVELUPMENT DATA SNEET
Actual                              Prolected                  Growth rates (Y)              1975 ahare
1965      1970       1974       1975      i976/L      1971      1985    1965-75  1975-77  1977-85  19b5-9U  of CoP (1)
A.  National Accounts
(Milliton USS at 1975 prices)
k.  Cross domestic product                7,045.8  10,627.8  13,827.7  14.590.0  15,503.0  16,619.3  27,494.0           7.6       6.7       6.5       6.5      IDO.0
2.  Gains from terms of trade               -84.5      137.3      593.3         -      -46.6    -706.2    -919.2                   -         -         -
3.  Gross domestic Income                 6.961.3  10,765.1  14,421.0  14.590.0  15,456.4  15,913.1  26,574.8           7.7       4.4       6.6       6.2       1U0.0
4.  Imports                               1,704.2   3,035.1   3,661.7   3,557.1   3,877.3   4,258.7   6,765.0           7.6       9.4       6.0       6.2        24.4
S.  Exportn - volume                      1,619.1   2,215.7   2,710.3   2,852.3   3,478.2   4,118.5   6,845.4           5.8      20.2       6.b       7.5        19.5
6.  Exports - adjusted for TOT            1,534.5   2,353.0   3,303.7   2,852.3   3,431.7   3,381.3   5,926.2           6.4       8.9       7.3       6.4        19.5
7.  Resource gap - adjusted for TOT         169.7      662.0     358.0      704.8      445.6      877.4      838.8       -         -         -         -           -
8.  Total consumption                     5,733.6   8,404.1  11,283.6  11,364.8  11,737.0  12,366.7  20,238.9           7.1       4.2       6.4       6.1        7b.0
9.  Iavestment                            1,397.4   3,043.2   3,495.4   3,910.0   4 211.6   4,423.8   7,174.7    10.8             6.4       6.2       6.4        26.8
10.  Domestic savings adjusted for TOT  1,227.7   2,361.0   3,137.4   3,205.2   3.719.0   3,546.4   6,335.9    10.1                5.2       7.5       6.5        22.0
11.  GDP at ctrrent US$                    4,052.9   6,543.3  13,450.0  14,590.0  16,199.0  18,796.2  53,533.2    13.7            13.5      14.0      15.8
B. Sector Output
(Share of CGP)
1.  Agriculture                              0.343      0.304     0.276      0.273      0.265      0.263      0.218
2.  Industry                                 0.230      0.251      0.273      0.275     0.279      0.285      0.320
3.  Services                                 0.427      0.445      0.451      0.452     0.456      0.452      0.462
C.  Prices (1975- 100)
1.  Export price inde.                        43.6       49.3      113.8      100.0     101.9       90.2      169.7      8.7      -5.0       8.2       5.8
2.  Import price index                        46.0       46.4       93.4      100.0      103.2     109.9      188.0      8.1       4.8       7.0       6.8
3.  Teros of trade index                      94.8      106.2      121.9      100.0       98.7       82.1      86.6      0.5      -9.4       0.7      -1.0
4.  CDP deflator (05$)                        57.5       61.6       97.3      100.0      104.8      108.8     187.5      5.7       4.3       7.0       8.7
S.  Annual average exchange rate              20.8       20.8       20.0       20.0       20.0
D.  Selected Indicators                         1965-75  1975-77  1977-85  1985-90
1.  ICOR                                    3.13      4.16     3.82      3.78
2.  Import elasticity                       1.00      1.40     0.92      0.96
3.  Average nation-l savings rate           0.21      0.22     0.23      0.23
4.  Marginal national savings rate          0.21      0.21     0.23      0.23
S.  Imports/CDP                             0.25      0.Z5     0.25      0.25
6.  Investment/GDP                          0.26      0.26     0.26      0.26
7.  Resource gap/GDP                        0.03     0.04      0.02      0.01
Value added /b                         Labor force /c                      V.A. Der worker /b /c
E.  Output. Labor Porce and Productivitv in 1975                US$ million               X               million            7                  USS             X of averate
1.  Agriculture                                                 4,559              31.3               13.4              75.7                340                 41.5
2.  Industry                                                    4,442              30.4                1.4               7.9              3,170                356.7
3.  Services                                                     5,588             38.3                2.9              16.4              1,930                235.4
Total/average                                            14,589             100.0              17.7              100.0                820                100.0
F.  Public Finance (X of GDP)                    1965       1970      1974       1975      1976        1977/c
(Central Government)
1.  Current revenue                           13.5       13.8       14.5       13.6       13.4
2.  Tax revenue                               12.3       12.5       13.5       12.0       12.1
3.  Current expenditures                      10.5       12.6       10.7       12.1       13.0
4.  Budgetary savings                          2.9        1.2        3.7        1.5        0.4
5.  Total public investment                    6.5        7.7        3.8        4.9        5.3
C.  Fuel Imports (Current USS - nllions)           65.0      112.0     628.6      711.7      833.7      923.0
(X of total imports inl. NFS)                 8.3        8.0       18.4       20.0      21.1       19.7
/a Preliminary.
lb At current market prices.
/c Estimate.



fazee 6 of 4
16107110 07 PATCNTS., EIBROAIL AS_S CE6K. DEbST AND CREDITODRTHINESS
lt,CuC-t US$ sill...)
Actual            _Protected
1971        1972        1973         1974        i975       197 79Ls      1977        1985          199D
ce of B     ce ot Ps-t
Exports (            Mrcludtmg  SF2)                        1,210.0    1,532.0    2,084.7    3,0835.8    2,81.4           3,560.4     3.714.9    11,6l1.4       22,065.$
Isport. (ineludlog 81S)                                     1,429.6     1,627.0    2.258.3    3,420:2    3,557.1    3,990.3    4,680.3    12.716.2    23,771.6
Resourc  balance                                             -219.6       -95.0      -173.6       -334.4      -705.7      -430.1       -965.4    -1.099.8    -1,705.i
Net f-ator  ee-ie- boo-"                                        1.4       -15.8        .20.8        -0.7          5.6      -42.4        -25.0        -567.8    -1,341.8
Slet interest pay.nta                                        28.0        10.0          7.0        36.0        69.0         26.1        41.6       -375.3        -611.4
Of chtch or publIc K L LT lo..                          -18.6        -19.9       -25.1       -28.1        -34.5       -46.7       -56.5        -308.7        -553.0
Dir-et Inv-st_nt Leea-                                     -27.0        -26.0       -28.0       -37.0        -64.0       -68.3        -66.6       -192.5        -536 0
Vork       -re     ..ttaoc.  f (*t)                            -           -            -           -           -            -           -            -             -
Current transfer. inat)                                        63.5        59.5        165.5       245.9        91.7         23.2        50.0         100.0        300.8
alance on correct accouct                                    -174.7       -51.3       -48-9       -R.'        .t  *          .3        -940.4    -1,567.6    -2,747.7
Prlosre dir-et Ico-at-uc                                       39.0        56.0        67.0        137.0        65.0         66.3       100.0         450.0      1,200.0
Grant. 6 Errsn-ltie flov.                                        -           -            -           -           -            _           _             _            _
PublIc K & LI lotu-
Dleb-csrsrtn                                                 47.9        30.6        69.0         93.9       169.2       241.7        333.4        827.7       1,183.8
ADrtnunu e                                                  -21.8       -23.7       -29.8        -32.3       -38.7         43.4       -65.1       -252.5        -398.7
iet dilsburn_cts                                             26.0        26.7        39.2         63.6       120.3       198.3        280.3        575.2         785.1
Octht K & LT loans
Dltb--srnte                                                 234.D       247.0       179.0        416.0       392.0       360.2        525.0      1,462.9      3,078.6
A-ottiastlou                                               -176.0      -167.0      -226.0      -229.0       -304.0       311.3      -375.0    -1,135.9    -2,324.2
B.z diabucae.en.tu                                           58.0        08.0       -47.0        187.0        g.0          48.8       150.0        327.0         757.4
Use ol 18F resources                                             -           -            -           -           -          77.6          -             -            -
Short-Errs capItal traItnu. trots                               7.0        33.0         42.0        63.0       132.0        138.9       100.7         150.0        200.0
Capita1 traoouction 811                                       54.5        47.6,        60.7       120.6        27.0         -5.6          -          121.0        273.4
C:ango I  reL eroa -- (- -.-nt)                               -10.3      -192.0      -113.0      -482.0        195.0       -75.0        301.4          55.6       -468.3
Bat forign eurh-gs resr.  -  7b (cod of perIod)               777.0       969.3     1,082.0    1,564.0    1,369.0        1,444.0    1,347.8        2,126.4       3,969.9
erant-aod Loao Coal'tneo-
OffIcIal graue                                                                            -           -              
Total public M i Lt loaI.                                      61.89      14.4          87.1       436.5       223.4        372.3
18RD                                                         37.0           2        13.0        142.0        95.0       153.0
iDA                                                            -           -         25.0          7.0          -            -
Ochee nultr.7later                                           9018.0      23.2          6.4        77.2        62.7         92.1
Gooermonsos                                                  35.8        37.4         24.0       200.5        47.7         22.2
Of ahih reotrrlly plio..d eocoes- I-                                       -
Ouppl Jer.                                                    1.1          -            _           _            _           _
Plcuoctal lountltutloon                                        -           -          16.7         9.7        18.0        100.0
Fonorudus Items
Grac ele.o.c of totnl coit_:rt (.)                             23.3        30.6         47.4        31.4          0.2
Acreage  torereor (i)                                           6.4          6.0         3.9         5.7          7.6
Aeroage maturIty (year.)                                       19.9        28.9         29.3        23.8        23.2
Sindlun- and Loon-Tern Debt lOInbucard onto)
total debt ott-nding (DOD eod of period)                      7960.39     8097.       906.3    il60.7    1,293.2    1,60635
Inclodlog ond isburnd                                         966,3    1162.5       1,184.8      1,770.0    i0292    2,403.7
Public debt .orvi.r                                           -40.3       -63.6       -54.9        -40.4       -73.2       -94.2
J.terest                                                      -18.6       -19.9       -25.1        -28.1       -34. 5      -46 7
Othne M & LT debt senior                                     -199.0      _191.5      -235.7       -290.6      -303.4      -381.4
TtEal debt o*e-ine                                           -239.5      -235.1      -313.6       -359.0      -436.6      -475.6
Debt Burden (2)
Debt enro    ratIo                                             19.8         15.3        15.0        11.6         16.0        13.4
Debt errice  atio Ld                                           22.0         17.0        16.4        12.8         18.3        15.7
Debt er.olo /G0C                                                3.4          3.0         3.0         2.7         3.1          2.9
PublIc dobt s. ri-e/Goe-r-aent re.eou.                          4.1          4.0         4.3         3.2         4.3          4.3
Ters ID()
IDto-est on total 000/total DOD                                 5.2          3.1         5.7         3.5         5.6          5 S,7
Tutul debt  Dervice/total 0D                                   11.3         11.2        12.4        12.8         11.9        11.3
OeeoeDen co Ration for nt & LT Debt (2)
Gran  diobu-oeaeot./inports (iqccldig NFS)                    19.7         18.3        11.0        15.0         15.2        17.3
Bet tranafre/leports  flooiodttg  970)                          3.0          3.8       -2.9          4.5         2.4          3.5
K.t tros fee/gross dlnburseseuts                              S1.8         21.0       -26.4         29.9        13.6        22.7
18OR  dnburseaota/grese total dibu--eets                       6.9        10.1         14.8         6.6         7.6          7.2
B.c  GCroup diahube--te/gr... total disbur--ets                 6.9         10.1        14.9         6.8         8.1          8.3
1IDB  00D/tutul 000                                            21.64       21.3        24.1         20.8        20.0        18.6
Sank Croup 1D/total 0D                    -                    23.4        21.3         24.1        20.9        20.3         19.2
IB0 debt erroc/tetal debt *e.-lce                              8.2         8.2          7.9         7.7         7.0          7.6
Bank Group debt ser.ic /total debt u-evlce                      8.1          8.2         7.9         7.7         7.0          7.6
Entertal Dobt (ibureed otly)                               Oottaodlon 12/33/76
lEorreom 0S5 ellIlooc)                                      Mount 
DRAD                                                          298. 4       36.3
Sink Groop                                                    309.0        37.6
Other h  ltisl-t l                                           17.1          13.0
-ternerrnt                                                    248.9        30.3
Of ebtoh oo-taliy plunoad econo-es 7c
SuppIlers                                                      17.0         2.1
Fina-  L1a  I8stItatoe.                                       33.6         16.9
bonde_                                                                  
Publc debt net
Totn1 publir K 8 LT debt                                      821.7       100.0
Other pubIlo M L LT debt                                      784.8        95.5
Other K 4 LT debt                                             794A9        us
teo.l public dabt (l-oludloD -ndlabura-d)                   1.606.5       195.5
total K & LT debt (locludlog undlsbur.ed)                   2,403.7       292.5
ft Praliatoary.
/   Bat  .oreI.t ease.. t   39 equlvUlS ot of  ins 31.
dInlc.de         . ..... o .otre-. Psoples republic  If Ebte, North Kore-, Berth TEst Na.
/d  ItLoIdleg oat direct Ie.cst rtlcon.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of December 31, 1977)
Amounts ($ million)
Loan or                                                         Less Cancellations
Credit No.   Year    Borrower                 Purpose        Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty-four loans fully disbursed                           374.4       -        -
822-TH        1972    Kingdom of Thailand   Education        15.4       -     9.8
864-TH        1972    TOT                     Telecomm       37.0       -     7.9
870-TH        1972    Kingdom of Thailand   Highways         28.6       -     2.9
369-TH        1973    Kingdom of Thailand   Education           -   19.5      9.0
379-TH        1973    Kingdom of Thailand   Irrigation          -    5.5      0.2
898-TH        1973    SRT                     Railways       15.0       -     0.5
461-TH        1974    Kingdom of Thailand   Irrigation          -    7.0      3.4
977-TH        1974    EGAT                    Power          75.0       -    36.8
992-TH        1974    IFCT                    Industry       12.0       -     1.9
1021-TH       1974    MWWA                    Water          55.0       -    31.8
1149-TH       1975    Kingdom of Thailand   Irrigation    95.0          -    86.4
1198T-TH ISF 1976    Kingdom of Thailand   Rural Dev.    21.0           -    19.4
1199T-TH ISF 1976    Kingdom of Thailand   Livestock          5.0       -     4.8
1243-TH       1976    Kingdom of Thailand   Rubber           50.0       -    48.4
1253-TH       1976    TOT                     Telecomm       26.0       -    22.6
1271-TH       1976    Kingdom of Thailand   Education        31.0       -    30.1
1327-TH      1976     IFCT                    Industry       25.0       -    25.0
1393-TH       1977    Kingdom of Thailand   Agriculture   28.0          -    27.8
1468-TH       1977    Kingdom of Thailand   Irrigation    55.0          -    55.0
ISF:   Interest Subsidy Fund
EGAT: Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
IEAT: Industrial Estates Authority of Thailand
IFCT: Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand
MWWA: Metropolitan Water Works Authority
SRT:   State Railway of Thailand
TOT:   Telephone Organization of Thailand



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9 pages
Amounts ($ million)
Loan or                                                         Less Cancellations
Credit No.  Year    Borrower                 Purpose         Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
1485-TH     1977    EGAT                     Power           50.0      -    50.0
1492-TH     1977    IEAT /a                  Industry         4.8      -     4.8
Total                                          1,003.2    32.0  478.7
of which has been repaid                       163.0       -
Total now outstanding                            840.2    32.0
Amount sold /b                    68.5
of which has been repaid        31.8            36.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA                   803.5    32.0
.Total undisbursed                                466.1    12.6
/a Not yet declared effective.
lb Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of December 31, 1977)
Amounts ($ million)
Year         Company            Type of Business      Loan   Equity   Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Concrete Products
Aggregate Ltd.                                0.30       -     0.30
1964   IFCT                     Industry                  -   0.38      0.38
1969   Siam Cement Group        Cement and Construc-
tion Materials      18.33   3.75    22.08
1975   Siam Cement Group        Cement and
Construction
Materials           10.00      -    10.00
1977   Mutual Fund              Capital Market
Company Limited                                  -   0.30      0.30
1977   United Sugar             Food and Food
Terminal Limited         Processing           2.50   0.20      2.70
Total gross commitments                        31.13   4.63    35.76
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                        19.61   2.35    21.96
Net held by the Corporation                    11.52   2.28    13.80



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of December 31, 1977)
Loan No. 822 Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4 Million
Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This Droiect involves development of Kasetsart University and
the relocation of certain units to a new campus. Although the technical
assistance and educational aspects of the project are largely on schedule,
civil works are about three years behind schedule with consequent delays in
furniture and equipment procurement. Delays in civil works are due to:
(a) an initial 15-month delay in contracting consultant architects; (b) an
18-month delay in completing tender documents; and (c) 2-5 month delays in
contracting civil works. The situation of contract awards is improving:
about 75% of the civil works and 50% of equipment packages have been awarded,
and remaining bid packages for civil works ($6.0 million) are in the process
of being awarded. Furniture and the remaining equipment packages will be
contracted in late 1978. Contracted construction is progressing well, and the
specialist services program under the project is nearly completed. All the
fellowships have been awarded; 84 recipients have completed their training.
Total project cost will exceed appraisal estimates by 36%. Disbursements
amount to about $5.6 million and are expected to increase to $9.0 million by
the end of FY78.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Project implementation is about 18 months behind schedule, but
substantial progress was made during the last two years. Contracting has
reached 95% of civil works and 70% of furniture and equipment. Technical
assistance is progressing well. The expert services program is virtually
completed. Ninety-five percent of fellowship funds have been committed.
Disbursements have reached $10.5 million compared with $3.0 million one
year ago.
Loan No. 1271    Fourth Education Project; $31 Million of September 13, 1976;
Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9 pages
Loan No. 864 Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is generally maintaining the revised time schedule
established in 1975 following initial delays in procurement. The procurement
action on all Bank-financed items is now substantially completed and $36.1 mil-
lion of the Loan has been committed. The balance of $0.9 million will be
committed in 1978. About 77% of the local telephone network expansion has
been completed and the balance will be completed by July 1978. Procurement of
long-distance transmission equipment under a bilateral loan has been delayed
which will cause the project completion to slip to September 1979, two years
and nine months behind appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The procurement action has been initiated on all components of the
project. The Loan is expected to be fully committed by early 1978. Civil
works are in progress. Local network expansion is expected to be completed as
per schedule by mid-1979 but due to a year's delay in tender award for trans-
mission equipment under a bilateral loan, the long-distance network expansion
for the project is only expected to be completed by September 1980, nine
months behind schedule.
Loan No. 870 Fifth Highway Project; $28.6 Million Loan of December 26, 1972;
Effective Date: March 26, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Works under the project have been divided into nine contracts, of
which four have now been completed. Work on seven of the contracts was
interrupted in 1974 because rapid increases in costs led to financial problems
for the contractors. Work was resumed on three contracts after renegotiating
the contract prices with the Government. The other four contracts were
terminated by agreement between the Government and the contractors; new
contracts were awarded and work was resumed in early 1976. Over 80% of the
work has been completed. Because of higher prices in the bids for completing
the unfinished work, total cost of the project is expected to be around $75 mil-
lion, or about 28% above the appraisal estimate, with Government financing
the overruns.  Despite these difficulties the project is likely to be completed
no more than one year behind the original schedule. The highway maintenance
study and feasibility studies for future projects have been completed, and
detailed engineering of the roads found to be feasible has been completed.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9 pages
Loan No. 898 Fourth Railways Project; $15 Million Loan of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: September 28, 1973; Original Closing Date:
June 30, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Parts of the project are behind schedule by about 18 months due to
slow procurement.  However, apart from rails needed for track renewal (now
being financed by the Government), all material has been received.  A contract
for the remaining item financed by the Loan, technical assistance, has been
negotiated with consultants. The growth in passenger traffic slowed in
1975/76, due to passenger fares being increased in November 1975. Freight
traffic has continued to grow (6% in 1975/76), mainly due to increased
cement production. Despite the tariff increases of late 1975, the SRT earned
no return in 1975/76 (against the prescribed 2% rate of return), but, with
the increased traffic, it expects to earn about 1% in the current year,
together with a debt service coverage of 1.4 times (against 0.4 times in
1975/76). A project completion report is being prepared.
Credit No. 379 Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $5.5 Million
Credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date:  August 23, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is about 90% complete and should be completed by June
1978. Construction has been somewhat delayed because of procurement difficul-
ties for civil works. However, disbursements are in line with appraisal
estimates. Yields and cropping intensities on the completed parts of the
project are roughly equal to appraisal estimates. A project extension service
has been set up and is operating satisfactorily.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project; $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project is about one year behind schedule through delays in
appointing consultants and in procuring earthmoving equipment. During the
1976/77 working season there was a marked improvement in the pace of construc-
tion, especially on the tertiary canals. Progress in rehabilitation of
main canal systems has been satisfactory although somewhat behind schedule.
Encouraging progress is being made in developing agricultural extension
services in the project areas. The estimated project cost is $24.7 million,
or about 96% over the appraisal estimate. In part, the increased cost is due
to price inflation being higher than foreseen at appraisal.  Also, a large
part of the increase is due to a decision to provide new tertiary canals over
the entire project area and to adopt higher standards for tertiary development
than envisioned at appraisal. The higher costs are compensated for by increases
in projected commodity prices and the economic rate of return is now estimated
at 28% compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress on the rainfed rice component
has improved due to strengthened project management and organization.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9 pages
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of
July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Although the start of major construction was delayed by about a
year, prospects are good that the revised schedule can be adhered to. A
contract was recently awarded for the first of four major civil works contracts;
tenders have been received for the second contract; and most of the equipment
for the project is delivered or on order. The on-farm works are proceeding on
schedule, with four pilot projects in operation. The consulting services for
the project were recently reorganized to provide a nucleus of resident staff
and a greater level of assistance in project management. Systems for monitor-
ing project benefits and water-associated diseases are being established and
the reporting of project progress has improved. The preliminary phase of the
Chao Phya Basin Study, also financed from the Loan, has been completed, and
the next phase is continuing. Work will begin soon on a feasibility study for
the Phitsanulok II Project. Consultants are being selected for the RID
Administration and Organization Study.
Loan No. 1468    Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project;
$55 Million of September 23, 1977; Effective Date:
December 23, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Preparatory activities are progessing well. A Project Director,
Project Managers for the Chao Phya and Mae Klong components, and a Project
Coordination Committee have been appointed and consultants have been engaged
for the Chao Phya component. Equipment procurement has begun and designs and
contract documents are being finalized for the 1978 on-farm construction
program of 10,900 ha. Project monitoring and cost recovery systems are being
set up and the Chao Phya project area came under the National Agricultural
Extension Project in October.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project has seven components: construction of 1,300 km of
village access roads; strengthening maintenance programs for 2,000 km of
existing rural roads, including provision of equipment; rural electrification;
village water supplies; development of improved techniques for upland crop
cultivation; an agricultural extension program in four provinces; and agricul-
tural development in two existing land settlements. After a delay of one year
in appointing consultants good progress is being made on the engineering of
the village roads and the first of nine construction contracts has been
awarded. Procurement problems continue to delay the water supply component.
Progress on rural electrification is excellent and this component will be
completed on schedule in September 1978. Progress on agricultural extension
and land settlements is satisfactory. The upland crop component has been
delayed by staffing and organizational problems.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9 pages
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million of February 27,
1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
Progress of the main component is satisfactory. The seed production
and pasture development programs are progressing reasonably well, although the
"loaned" bull program has been hindered by the delay in importation of cattle.
Permanent staff are being appointed to the project, and the technical assist-
ance component is being ably impiemented by the New Zealand Government.
Disbursements are considerably behind schedule, but should pick up within the
next few months once outstanding requests for disbursements are received in
the Bank.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million of September 13, 1976;
Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
Despite some initial delays in procuring fertilizers, project
implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1393    National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million of
May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date:  December 3i, iY82
Project implementation is progressing well; costs remain close to
the appraisal estimate, but disbursements are slightly behind schedule, mainly
due to lengthy procurement procedures. Disbursements are expected to be close
to, or ahead of the appraisal estimate in 1978. Additional supervisory staff
appointments at district and provincial level will be made and the overall
system of training and visits will be further improved. Proposals for monitor-
ing are being prepared, a project accounting system is being established, and
monthly reports are presented in a timely manner.
Loan No. 977 Ban Chao Nen Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million Loan of
April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1485    Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million of September 23,
1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project implementation is satisfactory. The main civil works
contract was awarded in October 1977 and preparatory works are under way.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9 pages
Loan No. 1021 Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project consists of expansion and improvement of raw water
facilities, construction of a treatment plant of 800,000 cu m/day capacity and
transmission tunnels and distribution centers to meet the expected water
demand of the metroDolitan area through 1982. A complementary project financed
by Asian Development Bank (ADB) includes trunk mains, distribution pipes,
tubewells and purchase of water meters. All contracts of the IBRD project
have been awarded and construction accomplishment, as measured by contractor
earnings, is 43%. Due to delays in the award of contracts, the project
completion will probably be delayed by about 18 months to the last half of
1979. Due to inadequate tariffs, which were last revised in May 1972, MWWA's
financial performance continues to be poor. MWWA's proposals for raising the
water tariffs in line with the increased operating costs, shelved by the
previous Government, have now been submitted to the new Government.
Loan No. 992 Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1978
The full amount of the $12 million Loan has been committed. The
commitment was more rapid than originally estimated. Disbursements have also
been very satisfactory. Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's
financial condition has continued to be good.
Loan No. 1327    Third IFCT Project; $25 Million of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Loan commitment rate has been slower than expected because of sharply
depressed investment climate in 1976. Capital structure and liquidity position
have improved, however, with success of share capital increase. Satisfactory
progress has been made on institution-building aspects of project.



ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND
ACCELERATED RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) The project was prepared over a period of about two years
(1973-1975).
(b) Project preparation was undertaken by the Provincial Electricity
Authority of Thailand (PEA) with consultants financed by USAID.
(c) A Bank mission reviewed the Power Sector, including the proposed
program for rural electrification in 1975/76.
(d) Departure of the Appraisal Mission: October 1, 1976.
(e) Completion of Negotiations: December 2, 1977.
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: May, 1978.
Section II: Bank Implementation Actions
Bank staff visited Thailand in mid January 1978 to review with PEA
project implementation and procurement procedures.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Tariff Study: Recommendations agreed between the government and
the Bank will be implemented June 30, 1979 (para. 30).
(b) The Sector, as a whole, will earn rates of return of 7% for FY78
and FY79 and 9% in FY80 and thereafter. The Government will maintain
the Committee for Power Policy and Development (CPPD) to review the
sector's investment program and tariffs (para. 32).
(c) PEA would review annually the adequacy of its' tariffs to achieve
an annual rate of return (on a revalued rate base) consistent with
the Sector's rate of return (para. 33).
(d) PEA's tariff schedule will incorporate an adjustment clause for
variations in cost of fuel and purchased power (para. 33).
(e) The Government will make necessary adjustments in PEA's and Sector
tariffs to compensate for fluctuations in fuel price and PEA's
cost of purchased power (para. 33).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(f) PEA will carry out its Rural Electrification Program (FY77-83) which
aims to provide electricity to 19,000 villages (para. 35).
(g) The Government will make up any short falls in funds to enable PEA
to carry out the Rural Electrification Program (FY77-FY83) (para. 36).
(h) Effectiveness of the loan agreements between the Government, the
OPEC special fund and CIDA and the agreements for relending from
the government to PEA would be a condition of the effectiveness of
the proposed loan (para. 4j).
(i) PEA will implement a Load Promotion Program by September 30, 1979
and undertake a sample monitoring program (para. 47).






IBRD  12693
..10-- r 4               ..-eES-.......THIADJANUARY 1977
DEMOCRATIC                                   ~~~~~THAILAND
J            J RUtIC                              PROVINCIAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
A
ACCELERATED RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
)f:        ~                        EXISTING          UNDER            FUTURE
i \ EXISTING  CONSTRUCTION       PROJECT
115 kv Transmission Lines
N.,Bangkok    -     .-C                                                  _       230 kv Substation
.-     ti::ASfqYP:   20  *  *           *       115 kv Substations                          200
0                     \                     t f : - .. : :::: . .: -- :- Thermal Power Plants
: 0)/ .       .     .     .     .    l....                 2                  Hydro  Power Plants
/ f   G *,.i /     <               FOUR SAMPLE PROVINCES...                                          VILLAGES
6 ~~~~~, I / ~~~~~~~TOTAL                                    VILLAGES       TO BE ELECTRIFIED
NO OF VILLAGES        ELECTRIFIED       UNDER PROJECT
CHIANG MAI (North)           1500                5 1 1
NAKHON SWAN (Central)    1026                    178
CHON BURI (Central)           568                130
MALAYSIA     '      ~        SONG KHLA (South)             871                 90
NAM NGUM DAM
.p          JUltimate Cap 135 MW
t   /                          ~~~~~~~~~~~Initial 30my- .a $       
-180        y'NnRh /                                                                                                              ,18'0 s
PAMONG ~N-N
IFrst Stage                  I SAKON    'I
2   .     4800 MW                         B NAK    
140                                                           Can at BondeLse i  G b                                       1 4 098 73 7     
1                    Nor1heUdanThsti,  o     B  a
LOEI                                            Sok  - Ineratonal BoundarPhies
5+ 08 s'         '1 UDON oTHA NIl   Udon Th a   2   Pho         9ahonho  hoo
The    bou,n _es_  /ooon    ---  -thi    do ho ,7    0   20    0  60   80  100
/CUAHR                                                    NAM ']KO        f              
/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~k                       A Inool4   WPh5o//|         anom YSTON= 
-16- ( CHAIYAPHUM 5 ,// sCentArANA                                 9 ,627M F<X7
,'sptK                                       HAN                      PEOPLES h'' F'  KILOMETERS
WIetd    Book  ond5 i3f4  off t-           6 s.  10                  0 1 040         -Q60
e~~~~~~~~~~~~me \i                                                         DE19BBR152IC
r ~~~~ Nakhon // / j '>> \ L)aonMu_dah
L        EYwth^io2'SSRNHORN DAM5
Sokcf /ASIMA ~~125B8 YASOTHON : 390 8 Co'3M^
16' ~ ~     ~      ~      ~       _ CHIAPU                            62 34 B     O     M1/i.<                         14_
-,AAHM        RIE               Chngat Bo            ndre| 
A -2    31 65    157 5J                         Yosothes RgonolBudre   
World Bank cnd its tfflistes   102*~~~~~Uba
-                       s          \                                  104O                                           106ho



