                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 30870

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (SCL-39460 TF-29365)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$16.0 MILLION

                                         TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                            EL SALVADOR

                                                 FOR A

          COMPETITIVENESS ENHANCEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                                           December 22, 2004




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Management Unit for Central America
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective July 1995)

                         Currency Unit = Salvadorian Colon
                                  ¢8.75 = US$ 1.00
                               US$ 1.00 = ¢8.75

                               FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1     December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AL          Asamblea Legislativa (Legislative Assembly)
ANSI        American National Standards Institute
ANTEL       Administración Nacional de Telecomunicaciones de El Salvador (National
            Telecommunication Administration)
ASTM        American Standard for Testing Material
BCS         German Coffee Certification
BMI         Banco Multisectorial de Inversiones (Multisectoral Investment Bank)
BW          Bonded Warehouses
CAFTA       Central America Free Trade Agreement
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CEM         Country Economic Memorandum
CETAP       Competitiveness Enhancement Technical Assistance Project
CIAA        Corporación Interamericana de Acreditación (Inter-American Accreditation
            Corporation)
CIU         Competitive Intelligence Unit
CNR         Centro Nacional de Registros (Center for National Registries)
CONACYT     Comisión Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología (National Science and
            Technology Council)
CONAMYPE    Comisión Nacional de la Micro y Pequeña Empresa (National Commission
            for Micro and Small Enterprises)
CSR         Corporate Social Responsibility
DCE         Dirección de Desarrollo Competitivo de El Salvador (Competitive
            Development Office of El Salvador)
DIGESTYC    Dirección General de Estadística y Censo de El Salvador (General Office of
            Statistics and the Census of El Salvador)
DPC         Dirección de Protección al Consumidor (Consumer Protection Office)
EIU         Economist Intelligence Unit
EXPORTA     Agencia de Promoción de Exportaciones (Export Promotion Agency)
FANTEL      Fondo de la Administración Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (National
            Telecommunication Administration Fund)
FAT         Fondo de Asistencia Técnica (Technical Assistance Fund)
FDI         Foreign Direct Investment

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS (Cont'd)
FIAS         Foreign Investment Advisory Service
FOEX         Fondo de Fomento a la Exportación (Export Promotion Fund)
FSAP         Financial Sector Assistance Program
FTZ          Free Trade Zones
FTAA         Free Trade Agreement of the Americas
FUSADES      Fundación Salvadoreña para el Desarrollo Económico y Social (Salvadorian
             Foundation for Social and Economic Development)
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GOES         Government of El Salvador
ICU          Infrastructure Coordination Unit
IADB         Inter-American Development Bank
INSAFORP     Instituto Salvadoreño de Formación Profesional (Salvadoran Professional Training
             Institute)
ISO          International Organization for Standardization
FOEX         Fondo de Fomento a la Exportación (Export Promotion Fund)
LLR          Lender of Last Resort
MIGA         Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MIPYMES      Micro, Pequeña y Mediana Empresas (Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises)
MSTQ         Metrology, Standards, Testing, and Quality
MOE          Ministry of Economy
NIST         National Institute of Standards and Technology
NMX          Normas Mexicanas (Mexican Norms)
NOM          Normas Oficiales Mexicanas (Official Mexican Norms)
ONI          Oficina Nacional de Inversiones (National Investment Office)
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PNCES        Programa Nacional de Competitividad de El Salvador (National Competitiveness
             Program of El Salvador)
PROESA       Agencia de Promoción de Inversiones (Investment Promotion Agency)
PSA          Private Sector Assessment
PSMP         Public Sector Modernization Project
PSD          Private Sector Development
SAL II       Second Structural Adjustment Loan (No. 3646-SV)
SIGET        Superintendencia General de Electricidad y Telecomunicaciones (Electricity and
             Telecommunication Superintendency)
SME          Small and Medium Enterprises
TP           Trade Point
UNCTAD       United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
UNE          Una Norma Española (Spanish Standards)
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
WB           World Bank
WDI          World Development Indicators



                        Vice President:       David de Ferranti
                     Country Director:        Jane Armitage
                       Sector Director:       John Henry Stein
                        Sector Leader:        Manuel Sevilla
                       Sector Manager:        Susan Goldmark
                       Task Managers:         Marialisa Motta and Stefka Slavova

                                       EL SALVADOR
  COMPETITIVENESS ENHANCEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35

Project ID: P040824                                                  Project Name: SV COMPETITIVENESS ENHA
Team Leader: Marialisa Motta                                         TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 22, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: SV COMPETITIVENESS ENHA                                  L/C/TF Number: SCL-39460; TF-29365
   Country/Department: EL SALVADOR                                                        Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Law and justice (87%); Central government administration (8%);
                            Banking (2%); Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and contractual
                            savings (2%); Payment systems, securities clearance and settlement
                            (1%)
                  Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P); Technology diffusion (P);
                            Trade facilitation and market access (P); Other financial and private
                            sector development (S); International financial architecture (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/03/1995                                     Effective: 11/01/1995                05/07/1996
     Appraisal: 04/12/1995                                         MTR: 01/15/1998                  10/01/1997
      Approval: 09/28/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/1999                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR/MICDES
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director: Jane Armitage                                        Edilberto Segura
Sector Manager/Director:        Susan G. Goldmark                              D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Team Leader at ICR:             Marialisa Motta;                               Mark Dutz
ICR Primary Author:             Maria Lourdes Gallardo; Elliott
                                Hurwitz; Stefka Slavova


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The years following the signing of the peace accords in 1992 provided the Government of El Salvador
(GOES) with an opportunity to pursue an open market economy.                Dominant thinking within the
Government of El Salvador gave priority to macroeconomic reforms, liberalization of trade, elimination of
incentives and other market distortions, privatization of services and the financial sector and, in general,
putting in place a pro-market policy and institutional framework.        With the support of the Bank, El
Salvador has moved aggressively in that direction. Surveys revealed that businessmen were concerned
about a broader set of issues, including political and policy uncertainty, the high costs imposed by
regulatory requirements, and other issues associated with the microeconomic reform agenda. Similar
concerns were held by the Ministry of Economy which argued that macroeconomic reforms needed to be
complemented by reforms aimed at improving the investment climate. The genesis of the Competitiveness
Enhancement Technical Assistance Project (CETAP) was the determination that open markets brought with
them the challenge of fostering an environment that would lower the cost of doing business, facilitate
increases in productivity, and enhance the dynamism of an export-oriented private sector. The project
tackled a broad array of problems related to enhancing overall competitiveness.

The objective of CETAP was to support the Government's program to accelerate outward-oriented private
sector development and raise productivity. To start moving toward these desirable long-term objectives, the
project was intended to facilitate change by improving the enabling environment in three areas, namely: (a)
the business environment, including lowering the cost of doing business; (b) the environment for
technological capabilities of private sector enterprises and labor to raise firms' productivity; and (c) the
environment for building consensus on competitiveness issues, by facilitating the flow of public information
and public sector-private sector dialogue.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project originally consisted of three components, which were aligned with each of the three objectives.
These components and their subcomponents were as follows:

A.      Strengthening of Business Environment

    1. Domestic Competition - support efforts to strengthen competition in three areas:
        i.      Competition law and enforcement;
        ii.     Consumer protection law and enforcement;
        iii.    Enterprise restructuring.

    2. Private Provision of Infrastructure Services - facilitate coordination of policy reform, sector
        reorganization, and regulatory reform through
        i.      Creation of an Infrastructure Coordination Unit;
        ii.     Design of action plans and required regulatory frameworks

    3. Deregulation and Trade Facilitation - provide assistance in three areas:
        i.      Trade and investment deregulation;
        ii.     Trade and investment facilitation;


                                                    - 2 -

          iii.     Legal registries.

     4. Financial Markets Development - provide focused support to the removal of legal and regulatory
          barriers to cross-border trade and investment in financial services via:
          i.       Internationalization of financial services provision;
          ii.      Liquidity support, deposit insurance and failure resolution for financial institutions;
          iii.     Payment systems reform.

B.        Technological Capabilities
      1. Quality and Productivity Program - support a study to promote a greater focus on total quality
          management by Salvadoran firms;
      2. Science and Technology Policy and Institutional Development - support the preparation of a study
          of priorities for science and technology policy for agriculture and agro-industry;
      3. Strategic Plan for Technical Training - support the design of a national scheme for demand-driven
          technical training.

C.        Public Information
      1. Public Information Program - build government capacity to assist in building a public consensus
          for the entire project;
      2. Study tours and working groups - build a consensus view of desirable competitiveness strategies by
          offering study tours to main concerned constituencies.

3.4 Revised Components:

While the components were not formally revised, the amount of activity under each varied significantly
over time. Table 1 below shows project activity within each component throughout the tenure of the
project.


Components and Sub-components                              actual      96   97     98   99     00     01  02 03 04
                                                          funding
                                                            US$

A. STRENGTHENING OF BUSINESS                                7,053,555
ENVIRONMENT
1. Domestic Competition                                     $820,773
i. Support for Domestic Competition
Sector Studies and Deregulation
ii. Strengthening of Dirección de Protección al
Consumidor
iii. Regulatory Entity
2. Privatization of infrastructure services                 $560,101
i. Creation of Infrastructure Coordination Unit
ii. Action plans + Regulatory Framework
3. Deregulation + facilitation                            $5,439,470
       i. Trade and Investment Deregulation
(Investment Law, Free Trade Zones, Bonded
Warehouses)



                                                        - 3 -

     ii. Trade and Investment Facilitation
(Investment Facilitation and Export Promotion)

1. Oficina Nacional de Inversiones (ONI)
2. Agencia de Promoción de Inversiones
(PROESA)
3. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
          4. Export Promotion
5. Export Promotion Strategies
6. TRADE POINT
7. Franchises
8. Agencia de Promoción de Exportaciones
(EXPORTA)
9. MATCHING GRANTS (Reimbursement to
firms)
          10. Competitive Intelligence
          11. E-Commerce
iii. Legal Registries
           1. Commercial Registries
           2. Movable Assets Registry
           3. Intellectual Property
4. Financial Market Development                       $233,211
  i. Internationalization of financial services
provision
  ii. Liquidity support, deposit insurance and
failure resolution for financial institutions
   iii. Payment Systems
   iv. Revision of banking law
B. TECHNOLOGICAL CAPABILITIES                         $958,793
1. Quality and Productivity
2. Science + Technological Policy +
Institutional Development
3. Strategic Plan for Technological Training
4. Conferences and training for laboratory staff,
etc.
5. Institutional strengthening for CONACYT
C. PUBLIC INFORMATION                                 4,979,108
1. Communications (Public Information               $1,299,413
Programs)
2. Public and Private Participation (Study            $671,230
Tours + team work)
3. Associativity (Clusters or Strategic             $2,784,980
Alliances)
4. CAFTA Support                                      $223,485
Project Management                                    2,340,472
TOTAL                                                 15,331,928




                                                  - 4 -

As Table 1 demonstrates, activity under component A.1. Domestic Competition, consisting mainly of
strengthening the legal and regulatory framework, took place throughout the project, while A.2., Private
Provision of Infrastructure Services got underway early and continued until 1998 at a lower pace than
anticipated but making critical contributions, including the revision and modernization of three laws that
led to private participation in the telecommunications and energy sectors, and the creation of           their
regulatory agencies. After 1998, the project ceased to be involved in this area as the GOES and the Bank
agreed that another project would continue with pending capacity-building activities.           Work on the
Investment Law and Trade Zones (A.3.i) got to an early start and made important contributions in a short
time that paved the way for the legislative approval of the Investment Law in 1998. Activities under the
Legal Registries (A.3.iii) component concentrated during the early years of the project, given national
priorities to have these critical "framework" laws and regulations addressed early, to provide a foundation
for further reform, while the other trade and export facilitation activities (A. 3.ii.1, 3.ii.2, 3.ii.3) were
implemented mainly toward the end of the project.

Work on the financial sector (A.4) also started early but gradually lost its momentum, and toward the end
of 1998 ended completely. As early as 1998, the GOES began to consider introducing major changes in the
country's exchange rate and financial system architecture, including the role of the Central Bank,
regulatory agencies and their relationship with the financial system. This re-thinking effort put on hold
activities originally planned under the project. In 2000, when the GOES decided to dollarize the economy,
the agenda for the financial sector expanded and became more complex. At this moment, the GOES began
to get more specialized support from the Bank and the IMF through the FSAP. For component B, Quality
and Productivity, aside from some training for CONACYT and laboratory staff, most activities ended
within the first three years. Finally, under Component C, public information and outreach programs
continued throughout nearly the entire duration of the project.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall Quality at Entry is assessed as satisfactory.       The project was substantially consistent with the
Bank's and Government's strategies, and had a very strong grounding in Economic and Sector Work: a
Private Sector Assessment and a Country Economic Memorandum "El Salvador: Meeting the Challenge of
Globalization" were completed by the Bank in October 1995. The objectives were clear and realistic, and
Government ownership rightly assessed as strong.

In spite of the Satisfactory rating, several issues related to project preparation need to be mentioned. First,
the Bank's team lacked sufficient information to anticipate conflicting views inside the GOES about the
priority attached to investment-climate and microeconomic reforms. Once the project was approved and
implementation proceeded, the project experienced delays due to different priorities emerging from the
Ministries of Economy and Finance. Second, project design was complex, with three main components and
16 sub-components. The reason for this complexity was that the main counterpart agency, the Ministry of
Economy, wanted to address a significant number of competitiveness-related elements. In addition, the
project was a highly innovative operation, in an area that was new to the Bank and the Borrower. Thus,
the project's design was influenced by important analytical work indicating that to improve a country's
competitiveness, work was needed in several different areas.

In addition, the project's design was somewhat unrealistic in estimating that the objectives could be
completed within four years, not anticipating financial constraints, limited institutional capacity, and the
lack of shared priorities toward macro- and microeconomic reforms. Finally, the project did not make an
adequate provision for monitoring indicators, which would have facilitated its supervision as well as an



                                                       - 5 -

ex-post evaluation of project impact.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Project outcome is assessed as satisfactory.          Of the three project objectives, two were achieved
satisfactorily, albeit with minor shortcomings as well as some delays (see key reasons for delays in the
section below). Significant positive outcomes directly attributable to the project include:

·        A stronger understanding and commitment on the part of private-sector stakeholders with respect
to competitiveness that eventually led to a more balanced view inside the GOES about the need for macro-
and microeconomic reforms.
·        Modernization of the legal framework related to competitiveness, particularly in the areas of
investment, commercial and movable assets registries, free trade zones and competition policy.
Additionally, the project co-financed a revision of the Telecommunications and Electricity Privatization
Laws. Overall, the effort to reform the legal framework through the project was extensive.
·        Creation of a robust institutional infrastructure to enhance competitiveness, including:
         o   a one-stop window, the Oficina Nacional de Inversiones, ONI, (National Investment Office)
             for business registration. ONI's work was originally focused on foreign direct investors,
             reflecting priorities of the GOES. As a result, the cost and time of registering and operating
             businesses were reduced for foreign companies. Toward the end of the project, efforst began
             to be oriented to national companies and local SMEs;
         o   the Investment Promotion Agency, PROESA;
         o   Trade Point (a specialized agency for export facilitation, member of the international Trade
             Point Federation);
         o   the Fondo de Exportaciones (FOEX), offering matching grants for export-promotion activities
             and new technology adoption;
         o   the newly-established Competitive Intelligence Unit within the Ministry of Economy;
·        Promotion of the concept of "associativity," enabling the creation of self-sustaining clusters in
different economic sectors, such as coffee, fishing and ornamental plants (see section 4.1, Objective 3 for a
complete list).

Table 2 in Annex 1 of this ICR presents a complete listing of project components and sub-components
along with the processes (activities) carried out in each area, and the outputs achieved. Also in Table 1 of
Annex 1 are indicators of outcomes (e.g., exports, FDI) achieved during the project period. It must be
stressed that the work implemented under the various project components and sub-components can be
linked to process and output indicators relatively easily; however, the attribution of export and FDI
performance over the course of the project to the work activities under the project's components and
sub-components is tenuous.

While outcomes cannot be directly attributed to CETAP, it is useful to note that as a percent of GDP,
exports and overall trade increased during the life of the project (see Table 1 in Annex 1). As shown in
Table 1 in Annex 1, overall trade, as percent of GDP, grew from around 56% in 1994 to 69% in 2004,
indicating an increasing degree of openness of the Salvadoran economy during this period. Table 1 also
shows that Salvadoran exports rose from around 20% of GDP in 1994 to 27% in 2004, indicating that the
country's competitiveness generally increased during this period. Using WDI data, Table 1 in the Annex
confirms this trend and provides additional information on the composition and destination of exports. Not
only did exports as a share of GDP rise, but, perhaps more importantly, the composition of exports also



                                                       - 6 -

changed toward more non-traditional exports (mainly maquila, but also others such as ornamental plants,
shrimp, etc.). So has the geographical destination of exports. Many of the interviewed cluster officials
indicated that ­ through support from the project ­ they have been able to start exporting to European
markets from the Netherlands to Russia (see Table 2 in Annex 1 and some anecdotal evidence later on). It
would be simplistic to argue that the positive trends in exports have occurred solely as a result of the
project's impact; yet, we can reasonably attribute at least part of the success to the Project and the
PNCES' (Programa Nacional de Competitividad de El Salvador - National Competitiveness Program of
El Salvador) efforts.

Measuring private sector awareness of competitiveness is also difficult. However, through interviews
conducted by the ICR mission, the change in the public mindset was quite apparent. Both government
officials and members of the private sector stated that the project helped break down barriers between
firms, and produced a change in mentality (from protection-seeking to more outward-looking and open) in
the private sector. While attitudes prior to project initiation focused on the negative aspects of domestic
competition and import barriers, Salvadorans now speak of the benefits of associativity, and their need to
collectively strengthen national capabilities to compete in a global economy.

Delays: CETAP was designed to support the PNCES, and approved in 1996. The project was originally
intended to close in 1999, but ultimately closed in June 2004, around four years later than scheduled. This
delay resulted from a series of factors external to the Program's control: first, implementation was affected
by severe GOES budget constraints in 1998 and 1999; (although World Bank funds were available, budget
constraints for the project were imposed due to pressures on El Salvador's National Budget); second, the
2001 earthquakes had a significant effect on several program elements. Additional delays were caused by
project implementation stretching over three different administrations. Even though all governments belong
to the same political party, it was necessary to slow down project implementation when new authorities
assumed office. The last two project extensions were implemented when the Bank and the GOES agreed
that closing the project would have meant leaving promising components incomplete. Taking the project
components to their logical conclusion was deemed more important than staying on the modified timetable,
and these components ultimately achieved satisfactory outcomes. Another important consideration for
extending the project was to support El Salvador in achieving economic policy continuity.

Flexibility was key to many of the project's successes. During the eight years of the project's life,
components were implemented at a different pace, and adjusted without modifications to development
objectives. Some project activities were dropped and others were added or re-designed. Some of the
modifications ­ most importantly the cluster program ­ became important parts of the project's success.
Dropped activities, including the technological capabilities component, were in line with the Borrower's
priorities and freed resources, which were reallocated to other priority areas (while acknowledging that
achievement of the second objective was unsuccessful).            Modification of components was always
accomplished through close consultation between the GOES and the Bank, and was done with an eye
toward finding new and innovative ways through which to work with the private sector, and maximizing
short-term versus long-term impact.

CETAP was the first project of its kind in the region and therefore had no historical reference. Given the
difficult circumstances surrounding the country at the time of its inception, Bank management tried to be as
flexible as possible in allowing for modification of individual components as long as they addressed the
original objectives. It was this flexibility that enabled the project to achieve many successful outcomes
from 2001 onwards. Project experiences offered a valuable learning process for both the Bank and the
Government. Lessons from CETAP were valuable in the design of other operations in Central America,
and also benefited the current Government of El Salvador in designing a more balanced and more focused


                                                     - 7 -

strategy for competitiveness and private-sector-led growth.


4.2 Outputs by components:

Since the components mapped exactly to the objectives, this information has been presented in the
following section.

Outputs by Objectives

A.     Strengthening of Business Environment

Achievement of the overall objective of this component is assessed as satisfactory. The original concept of
this component was for the GOES to remove obstacles to productivity and investment, promote exports,
and reduce the cost of doing business. In 1995 and 1996, the government faced substantial resistance from
some private sector groups against moving forward in areas deemed as high priority by the project. Some
traditionally powerful groups were reluctant to lose the protection they had been receiving for many years
through tariffs, quotas, and exchange rate controls. Implicit in the project design was the objective of
getting the government to develop a more balanced strategy towards growth: maintaining commitment
toward sound macroeconomic reforms but also adopting active policies in the areas of investment climate
and microeconomic competitiveness. Reaching the overall project objective was difficult and, therefore,
progress was slow during the first 3-4 years of implementation. It is important to note that the third
component of the project -- public information -- contributed substantially to the achievement of the
objective of Component One as it was essential in building and achieving consensus among different
stakeholders in the public and private sectors. Below is a description of outputs by key sub-components of
Component One.

A.1. Domestic Competition.

Competition Law: The original intention was to pass a Competition Law that would promote competition
and prevent monopolistic and restrictive practices that harm economic efficiency. A total of seven drafts
of the Competition Law were compiled throughout the life of CETAP.               The Legislative Assembly
eventually passed a Competition Law on November 25, 2004, about five months after the project closed. It
is currently pending approval by the President of El Salvador. While it is early to judge the quality of the
law that has just been passed, this is a significant achievement of the Project. The law was passed later
than originally envisioned, but the Project's work in this area ­ through the various drafts and
consensus-building initiatives ­ has certainly been beneficial in paving the way for the passage of the law.

Legal Registries:     The project was successful in providing assistance for a thorough review and
modernization of the legal framework for Commercial Registries. The Commercial Registry Law was
revised in 2001, and the registries were modernized that same year. On the other hand, concerns about the
constitutionality of the Movable Assets Law and opposition from some private sector groups have caused
delays in its passage, and the creation of a Movable Assets Registry. Under the old law, assets were
physically controlled by banks as collateral, while under the new law the borrower would be allowed to
maintain possession with the Registry allowing for the tracking of assets and ensuring that they are not
over-leveraged. Currently, the law is being revised and will be sent to the Legislative Assembly after the
constitutional concerns have been resolved. The Movable Assets sub-component progressed little in the
first four years of implementation as there was no shared vision among the Ministries of Finance, Economy
and Justice on what needed to be done. This led, in 1999, after extensive consultation between the



                                                    - 8 -

Government and the Bank, to a decision that the component would be left to the next Government so that
the limited funds available that year could be spent on more viable and less controversial areas. The new
Government of El Salvador, led by President Saca, is firmly committed to this reform and is even more
committed to pressure Congress to obtain the law's approval.

Once the new Movable Assets Law is passed, the next step will be the implementation of the Registries,
which will be hosted by the Centro Nacional de Registros, CNR, (Center for National Registries).
Implementation is expected to take no longer than one month, and is expected to be sustainable as CNR has
the legal, technical and financial infrastructure already in place to manage the process of registration, and
to build the requisite inventory. The CNR plans to start a dialogue with banks to promote the new law for
the use of collateral by small and medium enterprises.

Consumer Protection: With the help of the project, the Dirección de Protección al Consumidor, DPC,
(Consumer Protection Office) was restructured and strengthened between 1998 and 2003. Legislation was
approved to provide more transparency, particularly in the area of financial services; the law now protects
customers by providing them access to better and more complete information regarding the costs of these
services. There was also a restructuring of human resources in DPC based on the model of similar
agencies in Mexico, Chile and Peru, enabling a more efficient handling of complaints. Public outreach
activities were also implemented to enhance awareness of the services available. The agency resolved
14,475 complaints from June 1999 through May 2004, approximately 78 percent of those received. Under
the new Government, the DPC is being moved out of the Ministry of Economy to be run under a Special
Commissioner.

A.2.     Private Provision of Infrastructure Services

Soon after project inception, the project co-financed the revision and modernization of the following laws in
the infrastructure area, which facilitated the privatization of the enterprises noted below:
Telecommunications Law, Administración Nacional de Telecomunicaciones de El Salvador, ANTEL
(The National Telecommunications Administration of El Salvador) Privatization Law and Regulations,
General Electricity Law, and the law by which the regulatory authority, the Superintendencia General de
Electricidad y Telecomunicaciones, SIGET, (The Electricity and Telecommunication Superintendency)
was created.

In 1997, the Infrastructure Coordination Unit (ICU) sub-component of the project was transferred to the
Bank's complementary Public Sector Modernization Project (PSMP). The PSMP obtained the benefits of
the earlier work of CETAP, and El Salvador's telecommunications and electricity companies were
successfully privatized in 1998. This is an outcome to which the CETAP contributed. Transfer of the
initially programmed ICU to PSMP made available additional resources of US$911,000, which were
reallocated to other priority project activities. Responsibility for capacity building and technical assistance
to the ICU, as well as the regulatory agency originally planned under the CETAP, was transferred to the
Public Sector Modernization Project.

Through the privatization of the national telephone company ­ with the indirect support of CETAP ­ there
was an increase in the number of fixed phone lines by 129 percent, and a massive increase in cell phone
lines from 11,323 to 1,149,790 between 1996 and 2003. During this same period, the project also
supported regulatory and institutional framework studies on the country's airports and ports, with a view
toward private provision of such services.

A.3.     Deregulation


                                                      - 9 -

Investment regulation: In the area of investment deregulation, the project supported the passage of the
Investment Law by the Legislative Assembly in 1998. The law specified a limited set of prerequisites for
investment and eliminated unnecessary administrative steps by establishing a one-stop window for business
registration, the Oficina Nacional de Inversiones, ONI, (National Investment Office), which became fully
operational in 2001.       ONI's modernization, design, development, implementation and institutional
strengthening were financed through the project.

Business Registration: The successful reform and harmonization of the legal framework of institutions
involved in business registration (such as the Ministry of Economy and the Centro Nacional de Registros),
as well as that of the Commercial Code, were essential to the timely creation of ONI. Currently, a process
has been initiated to decentralize the work done by ONI in San Salvador by pushing it out to municipalities
in the eastern and western regions of the country.

ONI reports indicate that foreign firms can start a business in approximately 7 to10 days, down from the
original 3 to 6 months. Efforts are still ongoing to reduce the time to register domestic firms -- the Bank's
"Doing Business in 2004" and "Doing Business in 2005" reports estimate that it requires 115 days to
register domestic firms. The discrepancy between the Doing Business estimates of registering a firm, and
the data reported to the ICR mission by ONI, although quite large, can be attributed to several factors.
First, as explained earlier, ONI caters mainly to foreign companies. In contrast, the Doing Business
database estimates times for business registration for domestic firms. Second, the Doing Business data
imposes several assumptions on the type of firm to be registered, such as its being located in the country's
largest commercial city, the legal form of the firm, etc. The data by ONI refers to any type of company,
specifically foreign ones. Third, the Doing Business data rely on answers to a questionnaire by one
respondent law firm in El Salvador, which provides these data. Inevitably, discrepancies would exist, if a
larger sample of respondents were to be surveyed. That said, it is important to note that both Doing
Business and the ONI data provide useful information about the state of business registration, and clearly
signal that efforts should be made to extend the ONI services to domestic firms. Indeed, toward the end of
the project, the coverage of ONI started to extend toward domestic companies. In addition, similar
one-stop windows specializing in the registration of SMEs have been put in place, e.g. in CONAMYPE,
builiding on the experience and lessons of ONI.

Investment Promotion: The project financed and trained the staff of the Investment Promotion Agency
(PROESA), which became fully operational in 2001 with a well-defined country strategy. PROESA has
brought in 123 new companies and helped establish firms in new sectors such as call and operation centers,
with a total investment over 2001-2004 amounting to US$293 million. Based on initial estimates presented
by companies at the time of registration, PROESA has created 34,000 direct jobs in three years and 60,000
indirect jobs, mostly in the apparel industry. By 2005, two new call centers will start operation adding an
estimated 3,000 new jobs, and Philips will install a service hub for the region in El Salvador. PROESA's
goal is to attract investors from the US market, to supplement their existing client base, which is primarily
from Spain and Israel. The investment attracted by PROESA includes one "Fortune 500" company, as
well as investors in the apparel, IT, manufacturing and hotel sectors.

PROESA was financed by the project until 2002, when its funding shifted to the privatization fund
FANTEL. Its budget has been reduced by one half by the new Government, and the agency will be
transferred to the Vice-President's office under the Presidency. The Vice-President's office is currently
searching for alternative sources of funding from external donors to operate the agency and strengthen its
capacity. The GOES is in discussions with MIGA to further the country's strategy and help support
Government policies to increase foreign direct investment.


                                                    - 10 -

Free Trade Zones: The project was instrumental in the passage of the new Free Trade Zone (FTZ) Law in
1998, which has had a significant positive impact on trade performance. The project financed an
international comparative study of FTZs as a basis for modernizing the rigid legal framework governing the
use of these areas, which allowed only for the production of goods. The old arrangement made it difficult
for new firms to access FTZ privileges and was therefore not attractive to foreign investors. The new law
allowed firms producing both goods and services, such as regional distribution centers, to operate in the
FTZs, as well as bonded warehouses (BW). Procedures were also simplified under the ONI one-stop
window, and the new law even included environmental considerations governing the use of these areas
(30% and 20% of the land area must be green in FTZs and in BWs respectively).

The number of Free Trade Zones increased from 7 in 1995 to 16 in 2004. Officials report that the
combination of the new law and incentives provided by the Caribbean Basin Initiative attracted a total of
148 new firms between 1998 and December 2003, and that employment in FTZs increased from
approximately 40,000 workers in 1995 to 87,000 workers in 2004, of whom 75,000 were in the garment (
maquila) industry. Employment in the bonded warehouses increased from 20,000 in 1995 to 50,000 in
2004.

A.4.     Trade Facilitation

Trade Point. Trade Point (TP) was launched in 2002 to provide specialized export-related information to
small and medium enterprises. To design the Trade Point program, the existing Mexican Trade Point and
an UNCTAD proposal were considered; the Mexican design was ultimately chosen based upon a
recommendation by the Bank. Trade Point offers the following services: IntelExport, which provides an
initial feasibility study for the company and its export products; Exporta Negocios, which provides
information on business opportunities; InfoComer, which offers specialized commercial information such
as market access and prices; InfoFerias, which offers information on international fairs; and InfoPersonal,
which offers customized services. These products are produced with information obtained from specialized
databases and the international Trade Point network, and are priced from US$20 to US$300. The food and
beverage, arts and crafts, and various manufacturing sectors have been the largest clients of TP,
constituting 54% of its overall users.

Trade Point is currently part of the Ministry of Economy (MOE) but will be transferred to the Vice
President's Office along with PROESA. The implementation of Trade Point encountered several delays,
among them the earthquake which destroyed the building in which it was to be housed. Today, TP
possesses modern infrastructure and equipment but faces human resource constraints, which is it is
currently addressing.

In early 2004, Trade Point became a part of EXPORTA, a newly-formed agency partially financed by the
project. Currently, EXPORTA remains without a director, which hinders coordination with other agencies.
However, the lack of coordination has not kept Trade Point from achieving its immediate intended goals.

Fondo de Fomento a la Exportacion (The FOEX Matching-Grant Program). In April 2002, the project
launched FOEX, a matching-grant program, to support export-promotion activities for small and medium
enterprises. FOEX provides 50% matching grants to eligible firms for: 1) technical assistance with exports
(export plans required) and for 2) technology adoption. During April 2002 and in the second half of 2003,
FOEX experienced severe reimbursement delays, in part due to bottlenecks within the institution, but also
as a consequence of uncertainty on the approval of a final project extension. Procedures for reimbursement
approval were too complex, and during the ICR mission, interviewees reported up to 6-month delays in


                                                   - 11 -

reimbursement, which caused cash-flow problems to some enterprises. Between June and December 2002,
FOEX approved approximately US$300,000 in matching grants and reimbursed around US$30,000
between June 2003 and June 2004. Operational delays were overcome during the summer of 2003, when
the Program was restructured by the PIU in collaboration with the World Bank (restructuring of the FOEX
Program was one of the World Bank's conditions for granting a final extension to the Project). The
restructuring improved program results considerably, in terms of number of firms served, overall
disbursements and timeliness of disbursements.           By June 30, 2004 FOEX had commitments for
US$863,954 (three times the amount committed at the end of June 2003), and had reimbursed US$505,613
(equivalent to about 60% of the amount committed, versus 10% at the end of June 2003).

Reports by MOE on a sample of 49 firms, which received FOEX funds, show that they experienced an
increase in the value of their exports (fob) from US$9.8 million in 2001 to US$16.7 million in 2003 ­ a
70% increase in exports. Even though these outcomes cannot be directly attributed to CETAP, the benefits
produced by the FOEX-financed activities (participation in world fairs, design of new packaging systems,
sending of samples abroad, etc.) can be assumed to have played an important role in the increase of these
companies' exports. (Data on overall exports during the tenure of CETAP are shown in Table 1, Annex 1
of the ICR).

Based on interviews during the ICR mission with actual and potential users of FOEX, participants tended
to view the process required to access FOEX funds as complex and time-consuming. Many applicants
grew discouraged with the FOEX application process and opted for alternative sources of funds, such as
the Fondo de Asistencia Técnica (FAT). Beneficiaries today still report some difficulties in accessing
FOEX funds, and voiced a request for more flexibility in grant application requirements on grounds that it
is hard to estimate at the time of application the exact project costs, or the lifetime of the project, etc.

FOEX's slow implementation and low disbursement rates were in part due to the fact that the Program had
to comply with various Government administrative procedures, which made overall implementation
difficult. Outsourcing the management of the Matching-Grant Program to a private institution could
increase the Program's effectiveness and efficiency.

Competitive Intelligence: Under CETAP, the Competitive Intelligence Unit (CIU) in the Ministry of
Economy was set up in 2002 to help the Government assess the competitiveness of specific sectors, identify
those sectors' impact on the national economy, benchmark against similar industries in other countries, and
help the Government with its policy-making process. Monterrey Tech and other institutions provided
training and technical assistance throughout 2002 and the first half of 2003. The CIU currently maintains
close coordination with Trade Point and EXPORTA, and is working to establish a closer relationship with
PROESA.

The Comisión Nacional de la Micro y Pequeña Empresa (CONAMYPE), the agency under the Ministry of
Economy in charge of assisting micro and small enterprises, has replicated the ONI model of a one-stop
window to encourage informal-sector firms to become formal. This concept was originally conceived under
CETAP in 2001 in order to help informal firms become formal, helping micro enterprises go through the
registration process. However, loan funds were never allocated for this endeavor. The one-stop window in
CONAMYPE was finally established in November 2003, and since then 135 micro enterprises have been
registered through this service.

Additional outputs of note under this component included:

·        A draft law on Electronic Commerce has been prepared and submitted to the relevant authorities.


                                                     - 12 -

         Legislation in this area is important as trade over the Internet has increased steadily, and
         protections for both buyers and sellers are needed to regulate such trade.
·        At the request of the Government, the project launched a study on the creation of local franchises.
         The purpose of the pilot was to try to convert two small firms into local franchisors and, in the
         process, identify constraints to this process and the role that the Government should play, if any, in
         removing these constraints.
·        A study of Corporate Social Responsibility in El Salvador was completed by FIAS, and made
         important recommendations for making El Salvador more successful in investment and export
         promotion.     Through the project's support of the FIAS study and thereafter an important
         partnership between the GOES and private sector groups was established. This was aimed at
         improving the country's image as a socially responsible destination for investments and exports,
         especially in the areas of labor and environmental standards.

A.5      Financial Market Development

During its early stages, the Project financed a study in the area of banking law, which included suggestions
for a major set of reforms to the existing Banking Law in response to the financial crisis of July 1997. The
suggested reforms included: (i) creation of a deposit insurance scheme which aimed to minimize moral
hazard; (ii) development of policies for lender of last resort (the Central Bank still cannot function as a
lender of last resort) and bank failure resolution; (iii) consolidation of regulation/supervision of financial
groups (today, both Banco Agricola and Banco Cuscatlán work under this proposed structure); and, (iv)
reforms to a variety of other legal provisions to ensure consistency across proposed modifications. The
legislative review process was supported by USAID.

The Project contributed only marginally to the significant progress of El Salvador's financial system, which
was primarily supported through other donors' programs.             As outlined in Section 3, the marginal
involvement of CETAP in El Salvador's financial system reform was logical as it reflected re-thinking and
restructuring on the part of the GOES of the concept of the country's financial system and its main
institutions and elements, such as the exchange rate regime, banking supervision, deposit insurance, etc.
With the dollarization of the economy in 2000, the priorities for financial reform changed and became more
complex, thus requiring specialized support through the Bank and IMF's Financial Sector Assistance
Program (FSAP).

B.    Technological Capabilities

Achievement of this objective was unsatisfactory.          The objective was to improve the technological
capability of private enterprises, to raise their productivity and international competitiveness. As initially
envisioned, this was to be achieved through investment in three areas: (i) the quality and productivity
program, (ii) science and technology policy and institutional development, and (iii) a strategic plan for
technical training. All components would be executed by the MOE, CONACYT and INSAFORP. While
some progress was made, following a series of delays in implementation, activity was virtually ended in
2001, after its progress had been rated Unsatisfactory by a supervision mission during 2000.

Part of the reason for this component's failure was the private sector's initial inability to perceive ties
between the development of technological capabilities and their near-term ability to increase productivity
and exports. Further damaging to this objective, the budget constraints of the late 1990s severely limited
the resources available to implement activities under this component. Those funds that were available were
allocated to other areas where more positive (and immediate) outcomes were expected. There was also a



                                                     - 13 -

perceived lack of private-sector demand for quality-and-technology activities during the early stages of the
project. This was further aggravated by the relative dearth of skilled human resources in El Salvador
capable of absorbing the component's message. Institutional infrastructure and human capital in El
Salvador was also not up to standards necessary to facilitate component success. This component is
expected to be revived in the near future with financial support from the IADB.


B.1      Quality Certification Program

The Project envisioned activities aimed at improving El Salvador's quality certification systems. In this
regard, a US$800,000 study for this component was undertaken in 1997-1998, oriented toward preparation
of a strategy for the overall technology, training and quality component. The Fundación Salvadoreña para
el Desarrollo Económico y Social (FUSADES) surveyed a total of 300 firms in support of the study. The
component was initially designed to be implemented in three stages: (i) diagnosis, (ii) project design and
(iii) implementation. The study resulted in the production of two reports detailing the first two stages,
respectively; to date, it appears that these reports have not been used to support the implementation phase,
with CONACYT evidently unable to implement any of the nine projects proposed by the study (some
clusters have, however, begun to pursue this component on their own through the hiring of consultants for
their respective sectors, and have recently started to be co-financed through FOEX).

Government staff working in this area were taken on study tours to Mexico, Trinidad and Tobago, India,
and to the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in the U.S. These activities were seen as
having a positive impact on capacity, however, the declining emphasis placed on this area and the
diminished resources provided meant that most of the benefit was short-lived.

Other benefits that were achieved included the adoption of Mexican standards for some products. (This
means that for these products, Salvadoran certification is accepted in Mexico, but not necessarily in other
countries.)

After work on the component ended in 2001, the project continued to sponsor events in the areas of basic
metrology, ISO 9000/17025 certification, volumetric calibration and error estimation for public
laboratories. In 2000 and 2001 CONACYT was strengthened in the area of international standards by
gaining access to the following databases: the Mexican NOM (Normas Mexicanas), the Spanish UNE (
Una Norma Española) and the American ANSI (American National Standards Institute) and ASTM
(American Standard for Testing Material). No other significant outcomes were accomplished under this
component.

C. Public Information

Achievement in this area was satisfactory.           The overall success of the project depended on the
understanding and support of key domestic stakeholders and the public at large. The 166 events and
consensus-building activities carried out during the project were essential to ensuring its satisfactory
outcome. Figure 1 shows the distribution of events per area:




                                                     - 14 -

                              Figure 1: CETAP Events by area (1996-2004)
                                                   Total: 166 events

                                Business
                                               Others
                               Environment
                                                11%
                                   7%

                           Productivity,
                           Quality and                                  Associativity

                            Innovation                                     40%

                              11%



                                            Exports
                                             31%




C.1.     Public Information Program

Support for CETAP was built on public-private cooperation.               An international communications
consultancy was hired early in the project's life to provide assistance in articulating a vision of the project
for the government to present to the public.

Industrial Clusters: The industrial clusters component was not originally included as part of the project,
but it turned out to be among the project's most impressive achievements.              Clusters were a joint
government-private sector initiative to enhance private sector competitiveness. Soon after project initiation,
the Bank and Government realized the value of the clusters concept and quickly integrated its cross-cutting
nature into both the Business Environment and Public Information aspects of the Project.

Clusters helped change the mindset of private economic actors ­ from a vision of the Government as a
provider of protection ­ to one of the Government creating a supportive business environment with dynamic
firms balancing competition and cooperation, reinforcing linkages and information flows, and competing in
an increasingly global environment. The cluster initiative was implemented to identify strategies and
initiatives to increase firms' competitiveness at home and abroad, and facilitate collective actions among
smaller firms to implement activities that they might not be able to undertake on their own (e.g., marketing,
technology, training). Clusters' creation was a highly participatory process between the private and public
sectors.

The clusters' work provided an opportunity to develop a special dynamic between the Government and the
private sector, since ­ at the time of the project's inception ­ the latter was not fully supportive of the
Government's PSD agenda. To develop this component, the Project hired an international consulting firm
to develop a pilot program consisting of four clusters (textiles/garments, handicrafts, coffee, and ethnic
food products for the Salvadoran emigrant community). Each selected cluster had working groups of about
a dozen people who worked with firms on overall strategies and identification of specific initiatives to
enhance sectoral competitiveness. The first year of the consultant's involvement with cluster activities was
financed by the project and involved more than 2,000 economic actors, mostly private, including micro,
small and medium sized enterprises, in a series of town-hall meetings. The consultant was then financed by
the GOES for a second year. From this interaction, over 80 public policy initiatives to improve the



                                                    - 15 -

competitiveness of the clusters were jointly identified and included in the Government's program budget.

According to stakeholders interviewed during the ICR mission, studies done by the consulting firm are still
used today as a foundation for cluster activity. The firm provided sector strategies for the clusters to be
more competitive in the world economy and develop an export-based strategy. The idea was to create
self-sustainable clusters that would be able to operate without intervention from the Project or the
Government. Currently there are 11 clusters in operation that are regarded as viable and sustainable:
coffee, fishing, metal mechanics, recycling, electronics, the El Salvador Trading Group, handicrafts,
tourism, apiculture, ornamental plants, agro-industry and information technology.          These 11 clusters
operate without any support from the Project. While most respondents were quite positive about clusters,
a few indicated that the consultant created a model that was viewed by some as difficult to implement in
practice, and not compatible with the Salvadoran context.

Benefits received by companies operating in clusters include: access to better-quality market information,
enhanced exporting opportunities, increased credibility with potential foreign clients, economies of scale for
shipping and purchasing of inputs, a better access to government services, and increased bargaining power.
According to the members of clusters with whom the ICR mission met, the benefits far outweigh any
disadvantages related to internal competition between members, even though many of them produce the
same products. Some anecdotal evidence of the benefits received by firms operating in clusters supported
by the Project include:

·        Members of the Coffee Cluster have accessed training courses on ecologically friendly harvesting
         methods that have earned some of them organic certification by Rainforest Alliance and the
         German BCS.
·        The Ornamental Plants Cluster started direct exports; introduced new technologies; undertook
         training in quality certification; its members now export to Europe and the United States. Exports
         increased by 25% over 1999-2004. They used a FOEX grant to participate in a fair in the
         Netherlands, which led to new contracts and exports.
·        Firms in the Honey and Honey Products Cluster have diversified their product mix to include
         therapeutic honey and honey-derived cosmetic goods. Exports to Guatemala, Costa Rica, Panama,
         Nicaragua and Japan have benefited from FOEX funds and Trade Point services.

C.2      Study tours and working groups

Study tours were carried out, particularly in late 1995 and early 1996, including:

·        Spain, Belgium and Mexico for work related to the Competition Law;
·        Chile and Argentina for work related to the design of the Matching-Grants Scheme;
·        USA, Chile, Switzerland, Panama and the Dominican Republic for institutional studies benefiting
         Trade Point, and
·        Malaysia, Singapore and Hong Kong on overall competitiveness strategies.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:




                                                     - 16 -

N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The Institutional Development impact was substantial:
    ·   CETAP modernized the business-related legal framework of El Salvador. The impact here was
        most marked in the Investment Law, which served to strengthen the overall business environment in
        the country. Table 2 in the Annex enumerates the major legislation which was passed successfully
        under CETAP.
    ·   The Oficina Nacional de Inversiones (ONI) was created to function as a one-stop window to help
        foreign investors cut through the red tape involved in getting the permits required to establish a
        business in El Salvador.
    ·   PROESA, a high-level agency to promote foreign investment in El Salvador, was established,
        along with Trade Point.
    ·   Fondo de Exportaciones (FOEX), was established to offer matching grants for export-promotion
        activities and new technology adoption.
    ·   The Competitive Intelligence Unit (CIU) entered into operation in the MOE.

A detailed description of these achievements has been presented above in Section 4.1.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Project progress slowed down in 2001 when the country experienced two devastating earthquakes.
Hundreds of public buildings were damaged or destroyed, roads were blocked and sanitation and water
systems in many communities were put out of service. The total cost of the damage was estimated between
US$1.5 and US$2 billion. A great deal of effort in 2001 and during the following years that might have
advanced Project progress was lost on earthquake recovery efforts.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Budget constraints imposed by the Legislative Assembly during 1998 and 1999 slowed the implementation
of some components, particularly the Technological Capabilities item. Political controversies also did not
allow the passage of the Competition and the Movable Assets Laws. As mentioned earlier, the Competition
Law was passed after the Project closed, on November 25 2004, and the ICR mission was informed of
considerable ongoing consensus-building to pass the Movable Assets Law.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

None

5.4 Costs and financing:

The Bank planned to provide US$16 million, four-fifths of the financing required for this project, and the
Government of El Salvador the remaining US$4 million ­ refer to Annex 2 for a breakdown of costs by
component. At project close, approximately US$15.3 million (of US$16 million) was disbursed. A
balance of US$671,241.40 was cancelled. With the adding and dropping of components throughout the life



                                                     - 17 -

of the project, there were several budgetary reallocations, the most significant of which was the shift away
from consulting services and goods purchases towards an increase in funds available for matching grants
and operational expenses.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability of the benefits achieved is assessed as likely. Most important is the strong realization by the
Government and the business community that El Salvador is competing in a global economy, and must
work hard to sustain and improve its competitiveness. This was a principal aim of the project. Also, as El
Salvador moves toward CAFTA and FTAA, it is much less likely to backtrack on the reforms realized by
the project. There is a strong commitment by the newly-elected government to advance pending reforms,
such as the Movable Assets Law (and the Competition Law which has just been passed), that will
complement reforms already in place. ONI's operations are now financed through the national budget.
During the next few months, the Government plans to extend the reforms that have successfully reduced the
time and cost of registration of foreign firms to local firms (especially SMEs; see section 4.1, Objective 1).
And the GOES is in discussions with MIGA to further the country's strategy toward attracting foreign
investment, and help support policies that impact FDI. Finally, the GOES is also in discussions with the
WB and the IADB on new projects to improve the country's competitiveness and growth.

Likely sustainability is also demonstrated by the 11 clusters currently in operation without any support
from the Project (discussed in section 4.1).

The extensive legislative framework sponsored by the project will remain in place. Existing legislation,
such as the Investment Law and the Free Trade Zone Law, along with institutions such as PROESA, have
brought new private firms into the country with a powerful interest in sustaining ongoing reform.

The Government's ongoing commitment to enhancing competitiveness is shown by the decision to migrate
PROESA and Trade Point to the Vice President's office, whose high profile will facilitate their work. A
further demonstration of the Government's commitment is the creation of the Dirección de Desarrollo
Competitivo Empresarial de El Salvador, DCE, (Competitive Development Office of El Salvador) within
the MOE, which is charged with continuing to advance the national competitiveness agenda forward.

However, full funding for PROESA is uncertain. PROESA was financed by the project until 2002 when
its funding shifted to the privatization fund FANTEL. Its budget has been reduced by a half by the new
government, and the Vice-President's office is currently searching for alternative sources of funding from
external donors.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

All Project activities that were operational at the time of the Project closing have been absorbed by the
relevant government agencies, and are currently being operated and funded by the GOES. They are the
following:

·       ONI - Ministry of Economy
·       PROESA - Vice President's Office
·       Trade Point/EXPORTA - Vice President's Office
·       FOEX - Ministry of Economy



                                                    - 18 -

·       Competitive Intelligence - Ministry of Economy


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

As noted above in the section on Quality at Entry, Lending was satisfactory.               Strengths included
consistency with the Bank and the Government's strategies, and a very strong grounding in Economic and
Sector Work (ESW). Government ownership of the Project was also strong.


7.2 Supervision:

Supervision was satisfactory, as it dealt effectively with the broad project design by selectively dropping
and adding sub-components as they showed promise to contribute to the achievement of CETAP's
objectives. While the Project closing was extended four times, this proved to be a successful strategy, and
resulted in the creation of substantial benefits to El Salvador's economy.

As noted above, when disbursements under the FOEX program stalled, the Bank restructured the program
and improved program results considerably.

The Bank was flexible and responsive to the Client's needs. During the ICR mission, numerous officials
voiced their strong satisfaction with the quality and timeliness of the policy and technical advice received
by the Bank.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Borrower performance in preparation was satisfactory. As noted earlier, the Borrower was engaged in an
intensive dialogue with the Bank (as well as using relevant ESW), and thus was eager to participate in the
design process from the start and push the project forward rapidly. This strong initial interest translated
into strong Government ownership throughout the life of the Program.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government implementation was, on balance, satisfactory. The sole major shortcoming came in the
technology component, which the Government (particularly, the implementing agency, CONACYT) was
unable to execute, principally due to a lack of capacity. In all other areas, the positive working relationship
that the Government established with the private sector during project implementation, and the equally
positive participatory process that engaged all stakeholders in component design (for newly-introduced
components), were crucial to the Government's ability to implement all other aspects of the project. As
mentioned in Section 3.6, some Project delays stemmed from somewhat diverging views by the Ministry of



                                                      - 19 -

Economy on the one hand, and the Ministry of Finance on the other. The Ministry of Economy was in favor
of addressing a wide array of competitiveness-related, microeconomic reforms. The Ministry of Finance
would, on occasion, put a check on these planned activities as conditions changed and new priorities
emerged. Nevertheless, this divergence of views about the balance of micro- and macroeconomic reforms
never stalled or put serious pressures on Project implementation by the GOES.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the Implementing Agency was overall satisfactory, though with some deficiencies. The
Implementing Agency had a slow start, aggravated in part by (government) budgetary constraints during
1998-1999, which hindered implementation of some components. The Implementing Agency's activities
were also hindered by a lack of specialized procurement and management software.

However, in the later stages of the project, the Agency played a major role in facilitating achievement of
project goals. For instance, the Agency was closely involved in the restructuring and turnaround of the
FOEX program, described above. It also worked intensively with the clusters, giving presentations to
potential members and facilitating the success of groups that had already formed. The Agency also
conducted the project's successful information dissemination activities, and sponsored or participated in
numerous media events, round tables, working groups, and other interactions with civil society. The latter
was a critical contribution to raising awareness of the importance of competitiveness -- a key project
achievement.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Taking the above factors into account, overall Borrower performance was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

l A broad Project design ­ compatible and supportive of an overall National Competitiveness Strategy
    --  contributed to the Project's success.       CETAP adopted a broad cross-sectoral approach to
    enhancing competitiveness, which contributed to the Project's success. While keeping a strong focus
    on the Project Development Objectives, this permitted work that proved successful to move forward
    rapidly, while areas that were less successful, to be de-emphasized. Critical to the success of this
    broad approach was a strong Borrower commitment. Furthermore, placing the Project within the realm
    of a National Competitiveness Strategy ­ as CETAP did with PNCES ­ ensured a degree of continuity
    and coherence to the reforms carried out under the project.
l Close coordination with the private sector can enhance project success. Most project initiatives were
    conducted in close collaboration with the private sector. Examples include the Cluster Program,
    FOEX (whose Selection Committee comprised mainly private business representatives), the
    implementation of the Registry component, which was carried out by the CNR as well as the recently
    adopted Competition Law. Ensuring public-private sector collaboration in support of key reforms
    reduced the risk of reciprocal blockings and oppositions. The impressive legislative reform agenda
    passed under the project supports this notion.
l Private-Public sector collaboration can be strengthened by creating a high-level Coordination
    Group supported by a Technical Secretariat to help implement reforms. A public-private sector
    Steering Committee was originally created in El Salvador to define the country's Competitiveness
    Agenda and ensure implementation of reforms and monitoring of results, but it was dissolved after a
    short time. The Committee was composed of 4 to 5 Ministers and 5 to 6 top business people. The
    Committee focused on the details of the reform program rather than on developing an overall strategy.
    A better approach might have been to establish a Secretariat to help implement reforms, allowing the



                                                    - 20 -

    Committee to concentrate on the formulation of a national competitiveness strategy.
l Broad competitiveness operations are complex and risky. Careful attention to supervision and
    private sector involvement are useful in reducing risk. The breadth of this project made it a challenge
    to manage and supervise. Logistical difficulties also arose due to the span of the project, particularly
    with regard to coordinating the various agencies involved. Key elements of the project's success
    included an effective Implementation Unit, private sector participation and a diverse group of expert
    staff (from the Bank and outside) for supervision. Further strengthening of these three elements might
    have led to an Outstanding project rating, and is recommended for similar future operations
l Modernizing the legal framework should be the first step in institutional development.            CETAP
    understood the necessity of beginning with basic reforms in the legal framework in order to
    successfully create viable institutions and processes. This was another area where securing stakeholder
    buy-in through creating consensus among government agencies was critical to success. Reform of the
    legal framework enabled sustainable new institutions to be established, and was integral to the success
    of the overall program.
l The order and timeliness of reforms can alter the efficacy of outcomes.           Cluster activities were
    initiated in 1996 with the hiring of a consulting firm to design competitive sector strategies. It called
    for a strategy of Government support for export-promotion activities that was only delivered ­ in the
    form of matching grants by FOEX ­ in 2002. Many of those interviewed believed that cluster activities
    would have achieved a far greater success if the government had sponsored support programs in
    parallel with their deployment. Clusters proved effective as a stand-alone component, but their
    effectiveness, when coupled with contemporaneous governmental support, could have been much
    greater.
l Public sector agencies are not ideal managers of Matching-Grant Programs. The FOEX experience
    shows that governments should consider outsourcing the management of Matching-Grant Programs to
    private institutions. FOEX's slow implementation and low disbursement rates, especially in the initial
    phase of implementation, were mainly due to the fact that the Program had to comply with various
    bureaucratic government procedures which made the overall implementation an administrative
    challenge. A direct management of the FOEX Matching-Grant Fund by a private firm would have
    increased the success of this Program.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) evaluated the Project on behalf of the Government of El Salvador.
Accordingly, they submitted a Report, which analyzes in-depth the activities undertaken under the Project,
its objectives and outcomes, and the lessons learned. An assessment was made about performance on each
of the three main Project components. Below we briefly outline the main points of the Borrower's
assessment.

A.       Design and Implementing Agency

In January 1996, the Government of El Salvador and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development signed Loan Agreement No. 3946-ES to finance the Competitiveness Enhancement Technical
Assistance Project for a total of US$16 million. The Project resulted from the identification of the need to
improve local competitiveness. The Project was designed with three components: A) strengthening of the
business environment in the country; B) improvement of technical capabilities; C) public information and
Project administration.

The Project's objectives included: A) improving the business environment; B) strengthening the technical



                                                    - 21 -

capabilities in the country's private sector; and C) developing the means to facilitate a dialogue between the
public and private sectors in matters related to economic competitiveness. The original implementation
period was expected to be between January 19, 1996 and June 30, 1999. The Loan was extended on four
occasions after its original end date, until its conclusion on June 30, 2004.

Participation in project design was broad-based.                For example, contacts were made with
micro-entrepreneurs, business owners, educators, expatriates (especially those living in the United States),
the Chamber of Commerce of El Salvador, members of the public sector concerned with quality, members
of the financial sector and others.

During the early stages, the Commission for Modernization of the Public Sector (Comisión de
Modernización del Sector Público) implemented the Project. In 1996, a Board of Directors, called "El
Salvador 2021," was created to develop strategic plans for the Project.           In 1998, the Government
transferred responsibilities for coordination and implementation to the Ministry of the Economy (MOE).
With the return of responsibilities to MOE in 1999, the Board of Directors ceased functioning.

To carry out project administration, MOE created PNCES within its organizational structure, and the latter
was put in charge of planning, coordination, physical execution and financing of the Project. The PNCES
implemented each of the components, focusing on achieving the stated objectives, and those new ones
which emerged during the life of the Project.

B.       Implementation of Project Components

B.1.     Business Environment Component

The PNCES supported legal reform for the privatization of telecommunications and electricity and the
creation of the Superintendencia General de Electricidad y Telecomunicaciones, SIGET, (Electricity and
Telecommunications Superintendency), as the governing entity for these sectors.             Similarly, PNCES
supported the passage of new laws and legal reform in the areas of ports, airports, Free Trade Zones,
Investment, Exports and Commerce. At the end of the project, there remained for approval legal projects
related to competition, movable assets and e-commerce (a Competition Law has been recently passed).

This component included support for GOES, in coordination with FIAS, to study whether El Salvador's
business environment meets acceptable environmental and work standards. The PNCES supported MOE's
efforts in the strengthening of the following directorates and institutions: DIGESTYC, Energy and Mines,
Hydrocarbons and others, with which efforts were coordinated to achieve the Project's objectives.

The Project supported investment promotion and established the National Office of Investments (ONI) and
the Investment Promotion Agency (PROESA) to attract and facilitate domestic and international
investments in the country. These entities now form part of the system of export and investment promotion.

To support small business exports, MOE, with support from the PNCES, created support instruments as
part of the export promotion and development system, such as Trade Point, FOEX, EXPORTA and a
franchise development pilot. These instruments offer support in areas such as quality management, general
technical assistance, training, access to commercial information, business contacts, marketing, management
of associations and the internationalization of brands through franchising. MOE will continue developing
sectoral economic development strategies, with the Competitive Development Office and the Competitive
Intelligence Unit.

B.2.     Quality, Productivity and Technology Development Component

MOE supported the development of a consultancy on the Quality, Productivity and Technology
Development component. This resulted in a diagnostic of Quality and Productivity and the design of the
Salvadoran Quality Program. However, budget priorities did not permit completion of this program.



                                                      - 22 -

Nevertheless, CONACYT arranged for other participants to develop the theme of quality and productivity
enhancement through the partial funding of quality systems implementation. PNCES continued its efforts
by promoting access to international standards (ANSI, ASTM, UNE, NOM AND NMX).

B.3       Public Information Component

The public information component was originally designed to promote PNCES and its activities and create
consensus among the different sectors. Three surveys were conducted in 1998, 2001 and 2004 to assess
the impact of PNCES. The surveys indicated gradual improvements and a definitive change in the mindset
of the Salvadoran business community about competitiveness in a global economy.

Associations (clusters) were added to the Project to encourage companies to work in cooperation and
improve competitiveness. Presently, there are 11 clusters in the country.

Finally, the Project Implementation Unit planned, coordinated and provided follow-up to PNCES's
different activities.   This Unit attended Bank missions and implemented procurement and financial
management of Bank resources.

C.       Impact Assessment

Much of the impact of this Program is not quantifiable. Observable results are not entirely the result of the
Program. Rather, they are the result of the integration and coordination of the work and resources of
different institutions and sectors. Nevertheless, the following rating is given to the achievement and work
implemented under the three main Project components:

C.1      Business Environment Component: Highly Satisfactory

We provide this assessment on grounds that an impressive list of new, business-supportive laws were
adopted, which paved the way for the subsequent establishment of institutions such as ONI, PROESA,
Trade Point, EXPORTA, the FOEX scheme. These have been instrumental in advancing the concepts of
competitiveness and assisting the private sector with exports or attracting new foreign firms. This rating is
given despite some residual concerns such as the passage of the Movable Assets Law and the E-Commerce
Law.

C.2      Quality, Productivity and Technology Development Component: Satisfactory (in terms of
building awareness of the need for a National Innovation and Quality System)

Assessing this component is not a straightforward exercise. As we explained above, this component was
not actively pursued due to budgetary reasons, and ultimately dropped by 2000-2001. However, we would
argue that there were two elements to it: 1) building awareness and consensus, where we think the Project
achieved satisfactory results, and 2) setting up the National Innovation and Quality System. The latter was
not achieved due to the Government's decision in 1997-1998 to concentrate on other areas. Nonetheless,
activities under this component continued to be implemented even after 2000-2001, and due to these
outreach and awareness efforts the Quality and Innovation area is now seen as a key priority by the current
Government, and as an essential component of future competitiveness operations. Therefore, we consider
that bringing this to the top of the agenda is a successful outcome of the Project.

C.3.      Public Information Component: Highly Satisfactory

The Project undertook a tremendous effort in raising public awareness and changing the mindset of the
Salvadoran business community. These efforts were broad-ranging, and its impacts ­ while intangible ­
are visible in today's agenda of associativity and the success of the cluster program.




                                                     - 23 -

D.      Sustainability


The support instruments created by PNCES are sustainable. These are: ONI, Trade Point, EXPORTA,
FOEX. MOE is responsible to continue with the implementation of the Competition Law, E-commerce Law
and their respective regulatory authorities. The CNR will implement assets registration, once the Movable
Assets Law gets passed.

MOE AND CONACYT have assumed responsibility for the activities begun under the second component,
using resources from GOES.        These activities are included in the government's plan "País Seguro,
2004-2009."

The Cluster methodology has be replicated in other institutions, such as CONAMYPE. The Associations
of MIPYMES and DCE in MOE will promote clusters among large firms, a strategy included in the
government's plans.

E.      Lessons Learned

Complementing the lessons learned under Section 8, the following lessons emerge from our perspective:
    ·   The most important change in the area of competitiveness is in the mentality of the entrepreneurs,
        with regard to exports, quality, productivity, and the need to invest in technology and associations;
    ·   Continuity is important: i.e. there is a sense that a lot of groundwork has been laid, but there is a
        lot more to be accomplished to improve competitiveness;
    ·   A standardized administrative system for financing, administration, procurement and contract
        follow-up and control is crucial to avoid overlap and duplication of efforts in Project
        administration;
    ·   Systematic progress monitoring of the instruments created by PNCES-MOE and building
        monitoring indicators would be essential to further the competitiveness agenda.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

                                         RESUMEN EJECUTIVO

Producto de la identificación de necesidades para mejorar la competitividad local, el Gobierno de El
Salvador y el Banco Internacional de Reconstrucción y Fomento (BIRF), suscribieron en Enero de 1996 el
Convenio de Préstamo BIRF No. 3946-ES, para financiar la ejecución del Proyecto: Asistencia Técnica
para el Mejoramiento de la Competitividad, por una suma total de US$16 Millones.

El proyecto fue concebido para desarrollarse en cuatro componentes, así: A) Fortalecimiento del Entorno
de Negocios del País; B) Mejoramiento de de las Capacidades Tecnológicas, C) Información Pública, y D)
Administración del Proyecto.

Los objetivos del proyecto eran: a) Mejorar el Entorno de Negocios en El Salvador; b) Fortalecer las
Capacidades Tecnológicas de las Empresas del Sector Privado que operan en el País; c) Desarrollar los
medios para facilitar en el País un diálogo entre los sectores público, privado, laboral y la sociedad en



                                                    - 24 -

general en asuntos relacionados con la competitividad económica. El tiempo inicial de ejecución previsto
del préstamo fue del 19 de enero de 1996 al 30 de junio de 1999. El Préstamo, fue prorrogado en 4
ocasiones más, después de su primera finalización, hasta concluir su ejecución el 30 de Junio de 2004.

Por la naturaleza del proyecto, sus dirigentes diseñaron una estrategia que les permitiera su divulgación en
todos aquellos sectores que se relacionaban con sus objetivos, fue así como se realizaron contactos con
microempresarios, dirigentes empresariales, comunidad educativa, hermanos residentes en el exterior del
País, especialmente, EE.UU., Cámara de Comercio de El Salvador, sector público involucrado en aspectos
de calidad, Sector Financiero, incluyendo el BCR, como ente rector del sector, Sector de infraestructura
económica, etc.

El proyecto en su primera etapa de vida se ejecutó por medio de la Comisión de Modernización del Sector
Público, en el año 1996 se creó la Junta Directiva conocida como "El Salvador 2021", para proporcionar
los lineamientos estratégicos al proyecto. En 1998, el gobierno decidió trasladar la responsabilidad de la
coordinación y ejecución final al MINEC. En 1999 la Junta Directiva cesó funciones, retomando la
directriz del Programa los titulares del MINEC.

El MINEC, para administrar el proyecto creo dentro de su estructura organizativa a la Unidad
Implementadota del mismo, conocida como Programa Nacional de Competitividad (PNCES), quien tuvo a
cargo la Planificación, coordinación y ejecución física y financiera del Proyecto. Este ejecutó cada uno de
los componentes enfocado al logro de los objetivos planteados y otros nuevos que surgieron en el
transcurso de la vida del mismo. En ese contexto, a continuación se detalla en forma sucinta los logros
obtenidos al cierre de sus actividades.

Componente Fortalecimiento del entorno de negocios. Se apoyo a las reformas del marco legal, lo cual
dio paso a la privatización de las telecomunicaciones y los servicios de energía eléctrica y para creación de
la SIGET, como ente rectora de estos sectores. Así mismo, se apoyó la creación y reformas a leyes en
temas de puertos y aeropuertos, zonas francas, inversiones, exportaciones, mercantiles quedando al cierre
del proyecto, anteproyectos de ley relacionados con Libre Competencia, Bienes Muebles, Comercio
Electrónico, pendientes de aprobar     por los entes correspondientes. En el tema de libre competencia, se
cuenta con metodología para elaborar estudios de sectores y determinar concentraciones monopólicas la
cual ha sido aplicada en seis estudios, así como con una DPC fortalecida, para atender con mayor
eficiencia las demandas de los usuarios.
Como parte de este componente también se apoyó al GOES para que en coordinación con FIAS se
realizarán estudios, a fin de determinar si El Salvador, es un país confiable en donde se puede realizar
negocios en estándares aceptables de medio ambiente y de trabajo.
En el marco Institucional el PNCES apoyó al MINEC en el fortalecimiento de las siguientes direcciones e
instituciones: DIGESTYC, Energía y Minas, Hidrocarburos, y otras instancias afines y con las que se
coordinaban esfuerzos, para el logro de objetivos.

En lo relacionado a la Promoción de inversiones, se apoyó y puso en funcionamiento la Oficina Nacional
de Inversiones (ONI) y la Agencia de promoción de Inversiones, conocida como PROESA, a fin de atraer y
facilitar el establecimiento de inversionistas nacionales y extranjeros al país. Estas instancias hoy forman
parte del Sistema de promoción y atracción de inversiones.

Para apoyar las exportaciones de las PYMES, el MINEC con apoyo del PNCES creó instrumentos de
apoyo, los cuales forman parte de un Sistema de desarrollo y promoción de exportaciones, tales como:
Trade Point, FOEX, EXPORTA El Salvador y Proyecto Piloto de Desarrollo de Franquicias locales. Estos
instrumentos ofrecen apoyo en áreas como Gestión de la calidad, Asistencia técnica en general,


                                                    - 25 -

capacitación, facilitación del acceso a la información comercial, contactos de negocios, actividades de
promoción comercial, adopción tecnológica, gestión de la asociatividad y la internacionalización de su
marca a través de franquicias. Asimismo el MINEC para continuará impulsando estrategias de desarrollo
económico sectorial, ya que cuenta actualmente con la Dirección de Desarrollo Competitivo y dentro de
ella con la unidad de Inteligencia Competitiva.

En el componente de Calidad, Productividad y Desarrollo Tecnológico, el MINEC apoyó el desarrollo
de una consultoría, producto de la cual se obtuvo un diagnóstico sobre la Calidad y Productividad de las
empresas salvadoreñas y el Diseño de un Programa Salvadoreño de Calidad. PNCES apoyó parcialmente
la etapa de implementación de este Diseño, ya que en el transcurso de la ejecución las prioridades
presupuestarias no permitieron finalizarlo. Sin embargo CONACYT logró apoyo de otros cooperantes para
desarrollar el tema de "apoyo a la mejora de la calidad y productividad de la empresas mediante el
financiamiento parcial de la implantación de sistemas de calidad".
PNCES continuó fortaleciendo a esta institución, haciendo entrega de normativas internacionales de
referencia (ANSI, ASTM, UNE, NOM y NMX), para facilitar a sus usuarios el entendimiento de los
requisitos. Asimismo el PNCES capacitó a los sectores académicos, públicos y privados, en temas de
calidad, metrología, innovación tecnológica, calibración volumétrica, normativa ISO 17025 y su auditoria,
etc.

En cuanto al componente de información pública, éste originalmente fue diseñado para promocionar al
PNCES y sus actividades y        crear consenso en los diferentes sectores involucrados en el tema de
competitividad. Otra actividad correspondiente a este componente fue la realización de tres encuestas de
impacto del PNCES, las que se realizaron en 1998, 2001 y 2004 respectivamente. La encuesta de 1998
tuvo como fin establecer y dar seguimiento a los indicadores de impacto del préstamo para determinar la
importancia que representaba para el desarrollo de las empresas y sus problemas en las áreas de venta,
adquisición de insumos, trámites y regulaciones, competencia desleal, infraestructura, servicios externos,
etc. La encuesta del 2001, sirvió para actualizar la información derivada de la primera. Avances en áreas
de financiamiento y telecomunicaciones, incremento en la conciencia de de las empresas sobre la calidad y
el incremento de la competencia desleal, son algunos resultados de esta encuesta.

La tercera encuesta, realizada en el 2004 fue enfocada a medir las percepciones de los usuarios y de
sectores afines, respecto a los diferentes instrumentos creados por el programa. Uno de los resultados
indica que "en el último lustro el país ha realizado esfuerzos grandes por mejorar la competitividad en
lo micro, a través de los 3 grandes componentes de lo que podría llamarse el modelo salvadoreño de
competitividad...." , otro resultado indica que "a pesar de que algunos esfuerzos son creativos y que a
juzgar por los resultados de las encuestas el cambio en la percepción de los individuos con respecto a
temas como la competitividad y asociacionismo es notable, no deja de ser cierto que los esfuerzos aún
son muy focalizados, en actividades o unidades productivas cuya escala les impide por el momento
ejercer un impacto significativo en toda la economía"

En el transcurso de la vida del proyecto, a este componente se adicionaron otras actividades tales como
Asociatividad. La idea de esta iniciativa es que las empresas de un mismo sector, aprovechen las ventajas
de trabajar en conjunto y de esa forma mejorar la competitividad de las mismas a través del aprendizaje.
Actualmente están en funcionamiento 11 grupos asociativos.

En este componente también se apoyó a CAFTA, financiando parte de su promoción, informando a la
población y los sectores económicos del país, sobre los avances de las negociaciones, sus beneficios y
oportunidades, a través de foros, publicaciones escritas, medios de comunicación, etc.




                                                   - 26 -

El último componente es la Administración del Proyecto. Se creó la Unidad Implementadora, por medio
de la cual se planificó, coordinó y dio seguimiento a las diferentes actividades y proyectos del PNCES, de
igual forma se realizaron los procesos de adquisición de bienes y servicios necesarios para el alcance de los
objetivos en cada uno de los componentes. Se gestionó con oportunidad los recursos financieros en el BM
y en el GOES, para cubrir los compromisos adquiridos. De igual forma por medio de esta Unidad se dio
cumplimiento a las estipulaciones del Convenio de préstamo, se atendieron las misiones del BM y sus
respectivas recomendaciones. La ejecución financiera al cierre del proyecto es de US$ 17,968,440, de los
cuales US$ 15,327,764 corresponden al préstamo y US$2,494,508 a la fuente GOES.

IMPACTO DEL PROGRAMA NACIONAL DE COMPETITIVIDAD

En esta parte es importante comentar que por la naturaleza de sus actividades, muchos de estos no son
cuantificables y en su mayoría, el impacto que se visualiza no es producto exclusivo de las gestiones del
Programa, sino que es el resultado de la integración y coordinación de esfuerzos y recursos de las diferentes
instituciones y sectores involucrados. A continuación un resumen del impacto de ese programa:

·        El anteproyecto de Ley sobre Libre Competencia está divulgado y consensuado, listo para ser
         aprobado por la AL. De hecho este es demandado por diferentes sectores de la economía, por lo
         que se espera sea aprobado próximamente.
·        Se cuenta con una Metodología para evaluar la competitividad de los Sectores de la Economía del
         País probada y aplicada en 6 Sectores de la Economía previamente identificados
·        Durante los años 2002 y 2003, la DPC atendió 4,691 y 5,320 denuncias por año respectivamente
         y 2409 denuncias de Enero a Junio de 2004. De las denuncias atendidas en esos períodos, recuperó
         $ 877,995.96 en el 2002, $1,327,582.82 en 2003 y de Enero a Junio de 2004, $697,406.98.
·        Como producto de la privatizaciones de las Telecomunicaciones y de Energía Eléctrica del País, las
         estadísticas de la SIGET, muestran que la cantidad de líneas fijas en el País en el año 1996, eran
         de 328,407 y en el 2003 de 752,645, dando como resultado un crecimiento total del 129%. A la
         fecha, se cuenta con Telecomunicaciones que brindan más y mejor cobertura. En cuanto a las
         líneas telefónicas móviles en 1996 eran de 11,323 y en el año 2003 de 1,149,790, el crecimiento
         total del período fue de 10,054%.
·        Los resultados de la encuesta realizada por FUSADES para el PNCES en el año 2001, indican
         que en El Salvador las empresas y los usuarios en general pueden acceder a más de una línea
         telefónica, lo que facilita el acceso a Internet y a la información de los mercados nacionales e
         internacionales.
·        El sector energía, cuenta con seis distribuidoras en manos del Sector Privado: AES-CLESA,
         DELSUR. CAESS, EEO, DEUSEM, DEMATHEU. Esto permite llevar los servicios a más
         lugares del país.
·        Se creó la ONI, para facilitar, centralizar y coordinar los procedimientos gubernamentales para la
         incorporación de nuevos inversionistas. En la actualidad, los trámites básicos para establecerse
         como inversionista toman 7 días.
·        Se incrementó el número de zonas francas establecidas en el País. En 1998, se tenían 7 y 16 en
         2004, resultando un incremento de 9 zonas francas más. En número de empresas beneficiadas en
         operación paso de 173 en 1998 a 289 hasta Junio de 2004, que significó en términos de empleo
         directo de 60,000 a 86,300.
·        PROESA, desde su creación ha gestionado la introducción y/o ampliación de 123 empresas,
         generando 34,500 empleos directos y más de 60 mil empleos indirectos, además de una inversión
         de más de $293 millones.
·        Desde su creación en el 2002, el TPES, ha atendido a 970 usuarios de la micro, pequeña y
         medianas empresas. El 85% de estos usuarios han solicitado servicios de información para apoyar


                                                     - 27 -

    su proceso exportador, totalizando a la fecha 1,403 servicios otorgados. (ver anexo 1)
·   Desde Febrero de 2004, el sector exportador del país cuenta con el apoyo de EXPORTA, durante
    este período EXPORTA ha asistido a 72 empresas Salvadoreñas exportadoras en la participación
    de 8 Ferias y Misiones Comerciales Internacionales.
·   El MINEC cuenta con un sistema de información para el desarrollo (SID).
·   Dos empresas listas para promocionar y comercializar sus franquicias..
·   El sistema de información interno de la DCE/SID/MINEC, indica que el valor FOB de las
    exportaciones de 49 empresas beneficiadas por el FOEX, pasaron de exportar $9.8 millones en el
    2001 a $16.7 millones en el año 2003, lo que originó un incremento del 70% en sus exportaciones.
    El PNCES, no puede afirmar que el incremento en las exportaciones se deba exclusivamente a la
    relación de cofinanciamiento con el FOEX, pero sí se puede deducir que las actividades de
    prospección de mercados, diseño y rediseño de empaques, envío de muestras, etc., financiadas por
    el FOEX y la ayuda de otros instrumentos del MINEC como es el TPES, coadyuvaron a que las
    empresas mejoraran sus prácticas, conocimientos del mercado y formas de comercializar sus
    productos en el exterior.
·   El MINEC cuenta con una unidad de Inteligencia Competitiva, la cual apoya en la toma de
    decisiones de los titulares, por medio de sus investigaciones y estudios específicos.
·   Se cuenta con una ley de Bancos que propicia un sistema financiero sólido y competitivo,
    integrando a los mercados internacionales.
·   El BCR cuenta con una estrategia definida y en ejecución para la modernización del Sistema de
    Pagos,    dentro de los cuales se encuentran nuevos procedimientos para la Cámara de
    Compensación Electrónica de cheques.
·   El Diagnóstico, producto de la consultoría contratada por PNCES sobre Calidad y Productividad
    del País, le fue entregado al CONACYT, el cual sirvió de punto de partida para la obtención de
    recursos y ejecución de algunos proyectos derivados del mismo.
·   CONACYT, esta provista de la Normativa Internacional de Referencia (ANSI, ASTM, UNE,
    NOM y NMX), lo cual facilita a sus usuarios la consulta y el entendimiento de los requisitos.
·   Se encuentra en funcionamiento el Centro de Información de Normas del CONACYT (Info Q).
·   3 empresas certificadas en ISO 9000 por CONACYT y 37 empresas por certificarse.
·   32 Docentes universitarios capacitados en aplicación de la Metrología Básica, con el fin de que
    éstos sirvan de multiplicadores del conocimiento en las aulas.
·   27 Docentes de 6 Universidades y de un Instituto Técnico, capacitados bajo el esquema formador
    de formadores en Técnicas de Mejora continua, para ser efecto multiplicador de conocimientos a
    otros docentes y alumnos de universidades y al sector productivo.
·   Personal de laboratorios públicos capacitados en:
  - La aplicación de la Metrología y su importancia en el proceso de acreditación. (68 personas)
  - Calibración Volumétrica (29 personas)
  - Normativa ISO 17025 y su auditoria (39 personas)
  - Aplicación de Técnicas Estadísticas para la Validación de Metodología de Análisis de Pruebas y
    Ensayos.( 29 personas)
·   258 personas de 56 empresas, capacitadas acerca de la Calidad y la Productividad.
·   Charlas a 500 personas del sector privado para sensibilizarlas sobre la importancia de los Sistemas
    de Gestión de Calidad tipo ISO 9000 y HACCP.
·   Se realizaron 166 eventos de capacitación y comunicación para dar a conocer las actividades y
    avances de los diferentes sub componentes del PNCES, con una asistencia de aproximadamente
    12,000 personas.
·   El 82% de los eventos se enfocaron a las áreas de Asociatividad, Exportaciones y Calidad,
    Productividad e Innovación tecnológica.
·   Se logró posicionar en la mente de los empresarios, el concepto de Asociatividad y su


                                               - 28 -

         funcionamiento. Éste concepto está siendo replicado por otras instituciones del Gobierno,
         Fundaciones, ONG´S, Municipalidades, etc.
·        Se diseño y validó una metodología para la integración, desarrollo y regionalización de grupos
         asociativos única en la Región Centroamericana
·        Se Integraron 11 grupos asociativos (clusters). De estos actualmente están en operación 10, el de
         Confecciones y Textiles dejó de funcionar.
·        El sistema de información interno de la DCE/SID/MINEC, muestra que el valor FOB de las
         exportaciones de un grupo 27 empresas pertenecientes a diferentes grupos asociativos, incrementó
         sus exportaciones en el año 2003, en un 132% con respecto al año 2001. Al igual que las
         empresas FOEX, este incremento no se puede atribuir exclusivamente a la pertenencia a un grupo
         asociativo. Sin embargo, la pertenencia de las empresas a los grupos facilitó su gestión. En el
         anexo 2 se muestran los logros de cada grupo.

SOSTENIBILIDAD DE LAS ACTIVIDADES DE LOS COMPONENTES

En el componente I, el documento señala como la mayoría de instrumentos creados con el PNCES son
sostenibles. ONI, Trade Point, EXPORTA, FOEX, Inteligencia Competitiva, que en la actualidad forman
parte de la estructura organizativa del     MINEC.     PROESA, Registro de Comercio y de Propiedad
intelectual son instituciones que tienen su propia sostenibilidad financiera             y que trabajan
independientemente al MINEC. Estos son instrumentos de apoyo que forman parte del Sistema de
promoción y atracción de inversiones o del Sistema de desarrollo y promoción de exportaciones.

Se señala además la responsabilidad que tiene del MINEC, de continuar apoyando hasta su
implementación, una vez se aprueben: Ley de Libre Competencia, la Ley de comercio electrónico y la
Entidad Reguladora del mismo. El CNR ha manifestado su compromiso de implementar el tema del registro
de bienes muebles, una vez aprobada la Ley.

En el componente II, capacidades Tecnológicas, las actividades que se dejan iniciadas han sido retomadas
por el MINEC y CONACYT. Se continúa su ejecución, ya sea con recursos del GOES o de cooperación.
Estas forman parte de las actividades estratégicas del Gobierno, contemplados en el plan de gobierno "País
Seguro", 2004-2009.

En Componente III. La Metodología de Asociatividad ha sido replicada por otras instituciones, las cuales
están dando continuidad al tema, tales como CONAMYPE. Conforme a la planificación del presente año,
esa institución estará a cargo de promover los grupos asociativos de las MIPYMES, y la DCE del MINEC
promoverá grupos asociativos en la gran empresa, esto también forma parte de las actividades estratégicas
de este gobierno.

El Componente IV. El MINEC, está buscando alternativas de financiamiento para insertar al personal de la
UAF dentro de la Institución, específicamente en la DCE, ya que a través de esa unidad, el MINEC
continuará desarrollando el tema de mejoramiento de la competitividad empresarial.

DESEMPEÑO DEL GOBIERNO DE EL SALVADOR Y DEL BANCO MUNDIAL

Se califica de muy bueno el desempeño del Gobierno en cuanto al apoyo a este programa, éste cumplió con
los compromisos adquiridos en el Convenio de préstamo y con las recomendaciones del las misiones de
supervisión. Aún con las limitantes presupuestarias siempre suplió los recursos solicitados para la
contrapartida. Sin embargo, el cambio de Gobernantes en 1999 afectó la ejecución del mismo,
específicamente en el componente de Capacidades Tecnológicas. Dado que muchas de sus actividades se


                                                   - 29 -

atrasaron, debido a su realización implicaba decisiones de los nuevos titulares.

Se reconoce que el Banco, contribuyó en forma significativa en la ejecución y finalización del proyecto,
siempre fue receptivo a las nuevas ideas y proyectos planteados por el MINEC, proporcionó asistencia
técnica requerida en temas específicos, aprobó las prorrogas necesarias para que el proyecto pudiese
alcanzar las metas propuestas.

Con el apoyo del BM, el MINEC, implementó otros proyectos que no estaban originalmente dentro del
compromiso con el BM, tales como: matching grant, desarrollo de franquicias, Asociatividad y
fortalecimiento institucional, entre otros.

De igual forma, por las diferentes prorrogas autorizadas por el BM, el MINEC logró consolidar un centro
de información comercial (TPES), una Agencia para apoyar las exportaciones, poner en la mente de los
empresarios el concepto de Asociatividad y conformar grupos asociativos, conocer el estatus de la calidad
en el País, etc.

LECCIONES APRENDIDAS

La ejecución del proyecto, reveló situaciones que valen la pena mencionar, algunas de ellas para que se
prevean en futuras operaciones y otras para que se repliquen. Las lecciones se resumen así:
·        En el campo de la competitividad, los cambios más importantes han sido aquellos relacionados a la
         mentalidad de los empresarios, con respecto a las exportaciones, calidad y la productividad, a la
         realidad imperativa de la inversión tecnológica y la asociatividad.
·        Nuevamente atestiguamos el problema de la continuidad, ya que los cambios, principalmente los
         culturales, no son factibles de la noche a la mañana.
·        Fue determinante para el proyecto el que siempre contó con una dirección dinámica y conocedora
         de las políticas públicas nacionales, de las necesidades de los sectores y del contexto económico
         nacional y mundial, lo que permitió formular y poner en marcha proyectos viables y oportunos y
         sostenibles.
·        Aprendimos que la coordinación de esfuerzos entre las instituciones gubernamentales y organismos
         internacionales, el dialogo, la empatía y la paciencia son factores determinantes para lograr las
         metas propuestas.
·        Para mejorar la competitividad de las empresas el esfuerzo debe ser compartido entre el Gobierno y
         el Sector privado.
·        Los empresarios han aprendido los beneficios de la asociatividad, también a confiar y utilizar los
         instrumentos de apoyo que el gobierno ha creado para ellos.
·        Hemos aprendido que es necesario contar desde el inicio de con un sistema mecanizado que permita
         desarrollar con mayor eficiencia las actividades financieras, administrativas, de adquisiciones,
         seguimiento de contratos y de monitoreo y control. La falta del mismo nos hizo duplicar esfuerzos.
·        No se previó sistematizar la información de progreso de los instrumentos creados por el PNCES
         -MINEC y puestos a disposición de las PYMES, lo que dificultó la elaboración de informes,
         especialmente este.

Con relación a operaciones futuras, se indica que no obstante existe necesidades de financiamiento para
continuar, no se conoce solicitudes formales por parte del GOES, para obtener otro préstamo con el BM.




                                                     - 30 -

    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                                   ANNEX 1: Project Performance Indicators
    Table 1: Overall Outcomes


Components                                              Outcome
    1Exports      · International trade (export and imports as percentage of GDP) has grown from
                  55% of GDP in 1995 to 71% of GDP in 2003. This suggests that the Salvadoran
                  economy has become more open.
                  · Exports of goods and services (% of GDP): Exports have been rising almost every
                  year since 1995 with a small decline in 2001, compared to 2000, most likely due to the
                  earthquake (Exports as percentage of GDP were 21.64% in 1995; 27.40% in 2000; and
                 27.64% in 2003). Source: WDI
                 · The composition of exports has also changed toward more non-traditional exports
                 (mainly maquila). For example, maquila exports were about 39% of the total exports in
                 1995, about 54% of the total exports in 2000 and about 59% of the total exports in 2003.
                 Source: EIU
                 · The geographical destination of exports has changed: Exports to the US have risen
                 from 50.8% of the total exports in 1995 to 67.6% in 2003. Exports to Central America
                 neighbors have also increased. Source: EIU
2. Foreign Direct · Foreign Direct Investment, net flows (% of GDP): Net FDI flows have risen since
   Investment     the mid-1990s, a peak in 1998 is most likely due to privatization of utilities companies.
                  (Net FDI flows as percentage of GDP were 0.40% in 1995, 9.19% in 1998; 1.81% in
                  2001; 1.46% in 2002.) Source: WDI




                                                          - 31 -

Table 2: Process and Output Indicators
  Components                             Process                               Output
        I. Business Environment

 1. Domestic Competition
      1.1 Support for domestic          Competition policy events: seminars 7 drafts of Competition Law compiled; and
      competition                       and communication initiatives.        Competition Law passed on November 25, 2004;
        1.1.1 Sector studies                                                  currently pending approval by the President
      and deregulation
      1.2 Strengthening of Direccion de Preparation of draft Competition
      Proteccion al Consumidor          Policy Laws.
      1.3 Regulatory entity

 2. Private provision of Infrastructure Activities carried out under different
 Services                               projects.
      2.1 Creation of Infrastructure
      Coordination Unit

      2.2 Action plans and regulatory
      framework

 3.  Deregulation and facilitation      Laws passed:                          Number of Free Zones increased from 7 in 1995 to
      3.1 Trade Deregulation            Investment Law; Free Trade Zone       16 in 2004; employment in FTZs increased from
      (Investment Law,                  Law; Telecommunications and           approximately 40,000 workers in 1995 to 87,000
      Free Trade Zones, Bonded          Electricity Privatization Laws (co-   workers in 2004, of whom 75,000 in the garment
      Warehouses)                       financed); Commercial Registry        industry. Employment in bonded warehouses
                                        Law; Commercial Code amended;         increased from 20,000 in 1995 to 50,000 in 2004.
                                        Accounting and Audit Regulation
                                        Law, Competition Law

      3.2. Trade facilitation           ONI created in May 2000; 4 laws       Time to Register a Business reduced from 3 to 6
       (Investment facilitation and     passed or amended in order to         months to 7-10 days for foreign firms. Efforts
      export promotion)                 establish ONI (Investment Law,        ongoing to reduce time to register for domestic firms.
      3.2.1. Investment facilitation    National Registry Law, Ley de
                                        Superintendencia de las Obligaciones
         3.2.1.1.Oficina Nacional de    Mercantiles, Commercial Code)
         Inversiones (ONI)

         3.2.1.2. Agencia de Promoción PROESA created in 2000;                Attracted foreign firms; Approx. 35,000 direct jobs
        de Inversiones (PROESA)         Preparation and implementation of a and 60,000 indirect jobs created over 4 years; 2
                                        proactive strategy to attract FDI and major call centers set up; investment by one
                                        provide follow up and after care.     FORTUNE500 company; investment in garment
                                                                              (maquila in Free Zones), computer manufacturing,
                                                                              hotels.

         3.2.1.3. Corporate Social      FIAS study on CSR completed
         Responsibility (CSR)

      3.2.2. Export Promotion

         3.2.2.1. Export Promotion
         strategies

         3.2.2.2. Trade Point           Trade Point created in 2002           It is estimated that approximately 20% of firms that
         3.2.2.3. Franchises            A study on creation of local          received market information and more high-end
                                        franchises was completed              services such as business profiles and export plans
         3.2.2.4. Agencia de Promoción EXPORTA created in January 2004 from Trade Point are exporting.
         de Exportaciones (EXPORTA)




                                                                  - 32 -

        3.2.2.5. Matching Grants       FOEX created in July 2001; supports 62 firms have received matching grants from
        (FOEX)                         firms by matching grants for 1)       FOEX since its establishment until June 2004;
                                       technical assistance with exports     average size of FOEX grant is US$12,000;
                                       (Export Plans required) and for 2)    allocated grant sum total: US$863,954, of
                                       technology adoption; changes and re- which already reimbursed to firms
                                       structuring of FOEX in 2003 ­ grant US$515,604. Of the amount reimbursed
                                       approval process simplified and grant US$202,349 is for purchase of equipment; the
                                       size changed: US$15-25,000; as a      remainder ­ for technical assistance for exports.
                                       result time for re-imbursement of
                                       firms has declined from 4 months to
                                       less than 1 month.


      3.2.3. Competitive Intelligence  A four-person unit on Competitive
                                       Intelligence established in 2004.
                                       Competitive Intelligence work on
                                       several export-oriented areas: cheese,
                                       ethnic foods, reptiles and essential
                                       oils have been initiated. It is
                                       currently ongoing.
     3.2.4. E-commerce                 E-Commerce Law was drafted
   3.3. Legal Registries
      3.3.1. Commercial Registries     Commercial Registry Law passed



      3.3.2. Movable Assets Registry Draft Movable Assets Law exists;
                                       under review by CNR and Ministry
      3.3.3. Intellectual Property     of Economy
      Registry


4. Financial Market Development

   4.1 Internationalization of         Review and amendment of
   financial services provision        Commercial Code ­ Bankruptcy
                                       section in 1997-1998;
   4.2. Liquidity support, deposit     Deposit Insurance instituted in 1999
   insurance and failure resolution for
   financial institutions
   4.3. Payment Systems                Carried out under other projects.     Time to clear a check has decreased and is
   4.4. Banking Law                    Banking Law revised in 1999           now 2 to 3 days.
                                       (PNCES provided consultancy for
                                       the Banking Law)




                                                                      - 33 -

      II. Technological Capabilities
1. Quality and Productivity Program       A study to prepare a National
                                          Technology, Quality and Training
                                          Strategy was completed
2. Science & Technological Policy &       Pursued by INSAFORP with
Institutional Development                 separate funding

3. Strategic Plan for Technical Training
4. Conferences and training for           Study tours to Mexico, Trinidad and
laboratory staff, etc.(Note  that some of Tobago, India and the US NIST

the outputs related to this sub-component provided to Salvadoran laboratory

were achieved thanks to both World Bank   staff; study trips to Singapore,

and other donors' support)                Australia and India 1995-1999;
                                          Purchased subscription to the ASTM
                                          database for use by CONACYT
                                          (subscription has not been renewed)



5. Institutional Strengthening of         National Law on Laboratories         15 labs accredited by CIAA (Inter-American
CONACYT                                   passed; National Metrology           Accreditation Corporation) established in the last two
                                          Laboratory set up;                   years
                                          Proposal for amendment of the Law Approval of new standards and renewal of existing
                                          on CONACYT                           standards


6. Quality Certification                  Matching grant for quality
                                          certification scheme designed;
                                          Basic metrology, ISO9000 , ISO58     CONACYT is advising 40 enterprises on ISO9000
                                          certification                        (with IADB support); planning to do 200 in the future


          III. Public Information
1. Communications (Public Information National consensus-building              General unanimity in assessment that Project helped
Programs)                                 activities carried out               break down barriers between firms and changed
                                                                               mentality of private sector (from protection-seeking
                                                                               to more outward-looking and open); best captured by
                                                                               the success of the clusters (see next)
2. Public and Private Participation       Study tours completed in 1995-1996
(Study tours and team work)               and thereafter to Malaysia, Singapore
                                          and Hong Kong.
3. Associativity (Clusters and Strategic Sectoral studies completed;
Alliances) ( Only some Cluster            Consultancy work by MONITOR
experiences are included in the table)    completed in 1997-1998, defining
                                          strategic industries for cluster
                                          formation;
                                          Clusters formed and currently
                                          operational:
                                          Ornamental plants                    Ornamental plants cluster started direct exports;
                                                                               introduced new technology; undertook training and
                                                                               quality certification; its members now export to
                                                                               Europe (Netherlands, Italy, Denmark, USA (Florida
                                                                               and California); exports increased by 25% during
                                                                               1999-2004; FOEX grant used for participation in a
                                                                               fair in the Netherlands ­ led to contracts and exports


                                          El Salvador Trading Group (ethnic    New exports by the Ethnic Foods Cluster to USA
                                                                               (Maryland, Texas and California)
                                          foods)

                                          Honey (bee) products                 Honey Cluster has diversified product mix:
                                                                               therapeutic honey and honey-derived cosmetics; used
                                                                               FOEX and Trade Point; exports to Guatemala, Costa
                                                                               Rica, Panama, Nicaragua, Japan




                                                                      - 34 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Strengthening of Business Environment                       10.21             8.38              84
Strengthening Technologial Capabilities                      2.54             1.06              37
Public Information                                           5.27             5.77             125
Project Management                                           1.98             3.06             234

Total Baseline Cost                                         20.00           18.27
                        Total Project Costs                 20.00           18.27
                  Total Financing Required                  20.00           18.27


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                           1.82             0.00         0.90          0.00          2.72
                                  (1.82)           (0.00)      (0.85)          (0.00)       (2.67)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00        13.33          0.00         13.33
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (13.33)         (0.00)       (13.33)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          3.95          3.95
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           1.82             0.00        14.23          3.95         20.00
                                  (1.82)           (0.00)      (14.18)         (0.00)       (16.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00            0.00         0.00           0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                           0.00            0.00         2.60           0.00         2.60
                                  (1.86)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (1.86)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00        14.40           0.00        14.40
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)      (12.52)         (0.01)       (12.53)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00         0.77           0.00         0.77
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.43)         (0.00)       (0.43)


                                                - 35 -

   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.50             0.00              0.50
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.50)            (0.00)           (0.50)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                0.00               0.00             18.27             0.00             18.27
                                          (1.86)             (0.00)           (13.45)            (0.01)           (15.32)
   4. Miscellaneous: Operating Costs
   5. Miscellaneous: Matching Grants
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
A. The Business                7.85         2.35                     7.21         1.16                  91.8      49.4
Environment
B. Technological               2.54                                  0.96         0.10                  37.8
Capabilities
C. Public Information          3.87         1.40                     5.07         0.71                  131.0     50.7
Project Administration and     1.74         0.25                     2.08         0.99                  119.5    396.0
contingencies




                                                          - 36 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/08/1995                4    TEAM LEADER (1); FPD                 S               S
                                             ADVISOR (1); INFRAS.
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              04/17/1995                6    TEAM LEADER (1);                     S               S
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PSD SPECIALISTS (2);
                                             CONSULTANTS (2)
              05/29/1995              12     TL (1); FIN.SPEC (1);                S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); PSD
                                             SPEC.(3); OPER. ANALYST
                                             (1); INFR.SPEC (1);
                                             CONSULTANTS (4)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/19/1995                3    TL (1); LEGAL SPEC.(1);              S               S
                                             PSD SPEC. (1)


 Supervision
              04/12/1996                7    FINANCIAL Spec. (2);                 S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1); FPD
                                             ADVISOR (1); INFRAS.
                                             SPECIALIST (1); TL (1);
                                             LEGAL Spec.(1)
              01/17/1997                4    Fin.Adv. (1); FPD Adv.(1); PSD       S               S
                                             Spec.(1); TM (1)
              05/29/1997                2    TM (1); Sr. Advisor (1)              S               S
              01/16/1998                8    TM (2); Proc.Spec (1); PSD           S               S
                                             Spec. (1); Fin.Spec (1); Legal
                                             Spec (1); Invest.Spec.(1); Sr.
                                             Advisr(1)
              06/05/1998                3    TM (1); OPER. ANALYST (1);           S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              01/29/1999                4    TM (1); SR FINANCIAL SPEC.           S               S
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (2)
              05/03/1999                3    TM (1); TTL (1); PSD SPEC.           S               S
                                             (TECHNOLOGY) (1)
              10/10/2000                3    TTL (1); IFC INVESTMENT              S               S
                                             OFFICER (1); TTL (1)
              07/18/2001                1    FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)             S               S
              11/16/2001                1    CONSULTANT (1)                       S               S
              12/16/2002                1    CONSULTANT (1)                       S               S
              04/07/2003                5    CONSULT(1); PSD SPEC. (2);           S               S
                                             MICROFIN.SPEC (1); SL (1)
              10/06/2003                4    PSD SPEC.(1); ECON (1);              S



                                              - 38 -

                                                                                   S
                                            SR.PROG.OFF (1);
                                            CONSULT.(1)
               11/24/2003              5    PSD SPEC. (2); PROC. OFF (1);     S    S
                                            SECTOR LDR (1);
                                            ECONOMIST (1)
                                                                              S    S

 ICR
               07/25/2004             1     ECONOMIST                         S    S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            32.2                         149.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 20.4                           45.9
  Supervision                          225.3                         755.8
  ICR                                     4.2                          32.1
  Total                                282.1                         983.3




                                            - 39 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

El Salvador - Meeting the Challenge of Globalization: Country Economic Memorandum and
Private Sector Assessment. World Bank. October, 1995.
Reporte Sobre el Analisis del Impacto del Programa Nacional de Competitividad de El Salvador.
Deloitte and Touche. November 2004.
The Composition of Exports and Geographical Destination of Exports, 1995-2003. Economist
Intelligency Unit
Exports of Goods and Services 1995-2001. World Development Indicators
Foreign Direct Investment, 1998-2002. World Development Indicators.
Time Required to Register Domestic Firms. Doing Business in El Salvador Report. World Bank.
2004-2005




                                             - 42 -

- 43 -

