Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6679-ES
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN FOR US $16.0 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
FOR A
COMPETITIVENESS ENHANCEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 11, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
(As of July 1, 1995)
Currency Unit = Colon (¢)
US$ 1.0 = 08.75
Abbreviations and Acronyms Used
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CEM                Country Economic Memorandum
CONACYT            Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia (National Science and
Technology Council)
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GOES               Government of El Salvador
IBRD               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
INSAFORP           Instituto Salvadoreno de Formaci6n Profesional (Salvadoran
Professional Training Institute)
LIBOR              London Inter-bank Offer Rate
LLR                Lender of Last Resort
MICDES             Ministerio de Coordinaci6n del Desarrollo Econ6mico y Social (Ministry
for Coordination of Economic and Social Development)
MSTQ               Metrology, Standards, Testing, and Quality
ONI                Oficina Nacional de Inversiones (National Investment Office)
PSA                Private Sector Assessment
PSD                Private Sector Development
SAL II             Second Structural Adjustment Loan (No. 3646-SV)



-I-
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EL SALVADOR
COMPETITIVENESS ENHANCEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of El Salvador
Implementing Agencies: Ministry for Coordination of Economic and Social Development
(MICDES), Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Justice, Central Bank,
National Council for Science and Technology (CONACYT), and
Salvadoran Institute for Professional Training (INSAFORP)
Beneficiaries:        Private enterprises, and indirectly all consumers
Poverty Category:     Not applicable as specified, though the project is expected to have a
poverty-alleviation impact
Amount:               US$ 16.0 million
Terms:                LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loan for 17 years, including
a 5 year grace period
Financial Benefits
and Risks:            The Borrower has selected LIBOR-based US dollar single currency
loan terms in order to improve its overall liability management and
reduce its risks. It considers US dollars to be an appropriate currency
for its debt management strategy, and prefers the standard country
repayment terms for LIBOR-based single currency loans compared
with the shorter final maturity of fixed-rate single currency loans.
Commitment fee:       0.75% on undisbursed loan balance, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver
On-lending terms:     Not applicable
Thlis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomnance of their official duties. Its contents may not
othrwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- .1 -
Financing plan:       See Schedule A
Net present value:    Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:  Not applicable
Project ID:           SV-PA-40824



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO EL SALVADOR FOR A
COMPETITIVENESS ENHANCEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed development loan to the Republic of El Salvador for US$ 16.0 million to help
finance a Competitiveness Enhancement Technical Assistance Project. The single
currency U.S. dollar loan would be at the Bank's LIBOR-based lending rate for single
currency U.S. dollar loans, with a maturity of 17 years, including 5 years of grace.
2.    BACKGROUND. After more than a decade of civil war and stagnation in El
Salvador (1979-91), GDP growth rebounded from 3.5% in 1990-91 to 7.4% in 1992-93
and 6.0% in 1994. Inflation has fallen to 8.9% in 1994, from a high of over 30% in 1986.
The current account deficit (excluding official transfers) feli from 7.0% of GDP in 1989 to
5.7% in 1992 and 3.7% in 1994. This impressive performance reflects in part the impact of
sound macro-economic policies supported by the IMF and two World Bank structural
adjustment loans approved since 1989.
3.    Notwithstanding the achievements of the 1989-94 period, a number of
considerations have led to a reevaluation of the previous development strategy (see El
Salvador: Meeting the Challenge of Globalization, Country Economic
Memorandum/Private Sector Assessment (CEM/PSA), The World Bank, 1995). First,
sustained high and more equitable growth is a necessary condition to alleviate poverty and
ensure continued peace; although growth improved in the post-war period, GDP per
capita remains at pre-war levels. Second. current growth trends may not be sustainable
unless industrial and agricultural production together with exports expand considerably.
The recent recovery in economic growth was fueled by a service and construction boom
while there has been a decline in exports of goods and non-factor services as a percentage
of GDP, with current shares still below levels of the 1960s; though the level of real
exports has started to recover from its war-time slump, growth has not been spectacular.
Third, growth must be based on continual increases in productivity to reduce dependence
on low-cost labor as the main source of comparative advantage; the basis for productivity
growth lies in increased internal and external competition, and investments in physical
infrastructure and human capital. Fourth, to participate in the global economy, El
Salvador must increase its outward orientation, become more attractive to foreign
investors, strengthen channels of technology diffusion, and put technology to use in the
productive sectors.
4.    The Calder6n Sol Administration took office in July 1994 and announced its
economic program in February 1995. In practice, the objective is to create an
environment facilitating increases in productivity and enhanced dynamism of an export-
oriented private sector. In the medium term, the plan aims to (i) promote domestic and
foreign investment and incorporate the country into the global production chain by
lowering the costs of operating in the country, and (ii) reduce the size of the State and
increase efficiency of service provision through accelerated privatization while



2
strengthening the public sector's role as a facilitator of private sector development. To
achieve these objectives, the Government, through its Development Plan 1994-1999 (Plan
de Gobierno), includes the following agreements to strengthen the enabling environment
for private sector development: (i) the strengthening of competition (a transparent
schedule of tariff liberalization from 1-20% in 1995 to 0-6% in 1999, the enactment of a
competition law and the reform of the consumer protection law, privatization and the
introduction of competition in the provision of infrastructure services, modernization of
the financial system); (ii) the need for international promotion of the country (foreign
investment, tourism); and (iii) the generation of a cooperative environment between
business leaders and workers for continuous productivity upgrading (worker and
management training and information dissemination initiatives, and more flexible worker
compensation schemes tied to productivity).
5.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES. The proposed Competitiveness Enhancement
Technical Assistance Project is intended to support the Government's program to
accelerate outward-oriented private sector development and raise productivity. To start
moving toward these desirable long-term objectives, the project would facilitate change by
improving the enabling environment in three areas, namely: (a) the business
environment, lowering the cost of doing business in El Salvador; (b) the environment for
technological capabilities of private sector enterprises and labor, in order to raise
productivity and international competitiveness; and (c) the environment for building
consensus on economic competitiveness issues, by facilitating the flow of public
information and public sector-private sector dialogue.
6.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION. The project would consist of three substantive
components: (i) a Business Environment component with four subcomponents, to be
implemented by the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Coordination of Economic and
Social Development (MICDES), Ministry of Justice, and the Central Bank; (ii) a
Technological Capabilities component with three subcomponents, to be implemented by
the Ministry of Economy, National Council on Science and Technology (CONACYT) and
the Salvadoran Institute for Professional Training (INSAFORP); (iii) a Public
Information component with two subcomponents to be implemented by the Ministry of
Economy and MICDES. A fourth component would strengthen Project Administration
(paras. 15-18). Project physical and cost contingencies comprise the remainder of
project financing. Attachment I of the accompanying Technical Annex provides a
breakdown of estimated project costs, while Attachment II (Project Implementation Plan
matrix) provides greater detail regarding project objectives, activities, outputs,
institutional responsibilities, monitoring indicators and timing.
(i)    Business Environment (US$ 10.5 million, 52.5 % of proiect costs)
7.    Domestic Competition. The project would support efforts to strengthen
competition in three areas: competition law; consumer protection law; and framework for
enterprise restructuring.



3
*  Competition law and enforcement. The project would provide assistance to prepare a
law to promote competition and prevent monopolistic and restrictive practices that
harm economic efficiency. The project also would assist in establishing an
environment for effective implementation of the law, including: the identification of
legal and regulatory impediments that could delay implementation and action plans to
address such obstacles; public awareness, training and constituency-building activities;
and enforcement assistance and office equipment.
*  Consumer protection law and enforcement. The project would provide assistance to
create incentives for more effective enforcement and to study the possibility of further
revisions to the existing law. The project would assist in institutional strengthening,
including public education and training activities, provision of resident advisors,
assistance in redesign of enforcement and other operational procedures, and purchases
of office equipment.
*  Enterprise restructuring. The project would provide assistance both to develop an
alternative dispute resolution mechanism facilitating restructuring and to design a
modern bankruptcy law and its attendant regulations. Current impediments would be
identified and action plans proposed, supported by information dissernination, training
and constituency-building activities.
8.    Private Provision of Infrastructure Services. The project will serve as the vehicle
to facilitate coordination of policy reform, sector reorganization, and regulatory reform in the
provision of key infrastructure services, by assisting in the design of action plans and through
detailed analyses and drafting of legal and regulatory frameworks.
•  Creation of infrastructure coordination unit. The project would finance a coordination
unit to oversee the design of regulatory frameworks and privatization action plans for
telecommunications and energy, to oversee the design of draft terms of reference for
the various consulting assignments, and to monitor their execution.
*  Design of action plans and regulatory frameworks. In the priority areas of
telecommunications and energy, the project would finance required coordination
activities and regulatory framework/action plan work. Based on this work, the project
would study the potential of leveraging the experience gained in telecommunications
and energy to other infrastructure services. The financing of transactions-related
expenses tied to the sale of publicly held infrastructure assets is proposed to be
included in the complementary Public Sector Modernization Project currently under
preparation.
9.    Deregulation and Facilitation. The project would assist in three areas: trade and
investment deregulation, trade and investment facilitation, and the design and set-up of
key legal registries.
Trade and investment deregulation. On the trade side, the project would assist in
carrying out a study of legal/regulatory impediments to trade and commerce and
developing a plan to eliminate them. On the investment side, the project would
provide assistance to the Government in the preparation of a new investment law,
which will specify clearly a limited set of pre-requisites for investment and will
eliminate all unnecessary administrative steps. Finally, the law will establish a one-stop



4
window (Oficina Nacional de Inversiones, or ONI) where investors will be able to file
documents and receive assistance in undertaking their projects.
* Trade and investment facilitation. The project would provide assistance to design and
install an integrated system to facilitate international trade (Trade Point); it would also
identify any remaining legaUregulatory impediments to implementing Trade Point and
undertake an action plan to address such obstacles. With respect to promotion, the
project would provide assistance in the preparation of organizational plans for two
joint public-private agencies to promote investment and exports, respectively, along
with a strategy for identifying promotion opportunities.
* Legal registries (commercial, movable assets, intellectual property). The project
would provide sequential assistance to: (i) undertake a thorough review of the current
legal framework for the commercial and movable assets registries; (ii) design and
implement an action plan for legal reforms; and (iii) upgrade registry procedures and
information systems.
10.   Financial Markets Development The project would provide focused support to
consider removing legal and regulatory barriers to cross-border trade and investment in
financial services; develop an appropriate policy and regulatory framework for liquidity
provision, deposit insurance, and resolution/liquidation of failed financial institutions; and
improve certain aspects of the payment system.
* Internationalization of financial service provision. The project would support a
strategic review and action plan to ensure consistency and compatibility of the
legal/regulatory framework with international best practice. Both banking and non-
banking financial services would be examined. In addition, the project would support
design of a new law governing financial groups to ensure a strong framework for the
development of both domestic and cross-border financial services.
* Liquidity Support. Deposit Insurance and Failure Resolution. The project would
provide assistance in: defining the role of the Central Bank in provision of liquidity to
banks as Lender of Last Resort (LLR); designing a self-financing (by participating
banks) deposit insurance system; and establishing a clearly-defined policy for
Government intervention in troubled banks.
* Payment svstems. The payment systems for activities such as check clearing, large
value transfers, and securities trading form a basic component of the financial
infrastructure of the country. Given the current growth trend of the financial system
and the needs of greater internationalization, failure to address reform of payment
systems would result in increased transactions costs, and increase risks to the Central
Bank (and systemic risk). Based on the findings of a preliminary study by Bank, the
project would help design a strategy for modernizing the payment systems.
(ii)   Technological Capabilities (US$ 3.2 million, 16.0 % of p)roject costs)
11.   This component would assist in the development of the public-private institutional
framework supporting technology development, diffusion, and training, via three
activities: the design of a national plan to increase quality and productivity, work to



5
strengthen the demand-driven nature of science and technology policy and institutions, and
the preparation of a strategic plan for technical training.
* Quality and Productivity Program. The project will support a study to design a
"Salvadoran Quality and Productivity Program" to promote the diffusion of a
corporate culture with greater focus on total quality management across enterprises.
* Science and Technology Policy and Institutional Development. The project will
support the preparation of a study of priorities for science and technology policy for
agriculture and agro-industry. Based on the results of a diagnostic study financed by a
Japanese Grant facility, the project also will strengthen local capacity in quality
certification services and of the laboratories that provide these services.
* Strategic Plan for Technical Training. The project will support the design of a national
scheme for demand-driven technical training, for both employed and unemployed
workers. The output of the study will be a strategic plan for the provision and
regulation of technical training, and an action plan for its implementation.
(iii) Public Information (US$ 5.0 million, 25.0 % of proiect costs)
12.   The success of the Government's competitiveness enhancement efforts will depend
in part on the understanding and support of key domestic constituencies and the local
public at large. To build consensus for activities of the other two components, financing
has already been included for activity-specific study tours, twinning arrangements and
working groups. To help build broader support, this component includes:
3 Public information program. The project would assist in building institutional capacity
in this area through: developing and helping to implement a two-way government
information strategy; and providing support for intensified efforts to explain
government reform initiatives to the broad public and to those specific groups most
affected by each of the other activities under the project. Through a set of focused
Technical Notes, as well as other appropriate information dissemination mechanisms
as needed throughout project implementation, this program would operate as an
umbrella activity to assist in building consensus for the entire project.
*  Study tours and working groups. The project will help build a consensus view of
desirable competitiveness strategies by offering the opportunity to groups composed
of the main concerned constituencies to go on focused study tours. To augment this
process, working groups are to be established, as a forum to discuss and disseminate
findings, as well as periodically monitor and evaluate the overall impact of the project.
Finally, a small enterprise-level survey will be administered in the third year to assist in
monitoring the impact of main project activities.
13.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING. Estimated project costs are described
in Schedule A. The Bank would provide US$ 16.00 million, four-fifths of the total
financing, and the Government the remaining US$ 4.00 million. Retroactive financing in
an amount not exceeding US$ 1.6 million would be available for eligible expenditures
made after June 1, 1995 to support initial studies and seminars. To facilitate disbursement
under the loan, a Special Account would be established in the Central Bank, at the
discretion of the Government, with an authorized allocation of US$ 1.5 million,



6
representing the average amount equivalent to four months of eligible expenditures that
are expected to be paid from the account. Separate accounts of all expenditures financed
by the Project would be maintained by MICDES and the participating institutions. The
accounts and statements of expenditures would be audited each year by auditors
satisfactory to the Bank. The Project would finance consultants and procurement of
equipment but would not finance any recurring expenditures Procurement and
disbursement arrangements, described in Schedule B, are discussed in greater detail in the
accompanying Technical Annex.
14.   A LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loan is proposed in accordance with the
Government's request. The loan would have a repayment period of 17 years, including a
five year grace period. The Republic of El Salvador is eligible for single currency loans
because it has converted all its outstanding VLR82 loans to VLR89 terms. The
Government anticipates borrowing US$ 116 million from the EIBRI) on a single currency
loan basis during FY96, including US$ 16 million for this project.
15.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION. The project would be implemented under a
three-tiered administrative structure: a high-level council for policy direction and
promotion; a coordinating unit led by MICDES to oversee project execution and link
project activities with the direction of the high-level council; and a set of implementing
agencies that would be responsible for the day-to-day implementation of individual project
components. The second and third tiers will be the critical levels to ensure timely and
effective implementation. The private sector would be directly represented in the first two
tiers and informally represented as appropriate at the third tier, working in partnership
with the public sector to achieve the project's objectives, ensuring continuous private
sector input, and building consensus with its constituencies.
16.   Promotion. As the first tier, a National Council for Competitiveness (Consejo
Nacional de la Competitividad), a joint private-public entity consisting of representatives
from leading private sector organizations and relevant Government agencies has been
established to enhance support for the project. The Council is headed by the Minister of
Economy (project "champion") and is composed of principal "owners" and "clients" of the
project, including business and government representatives. It will serve as a high-level
entity to promote the project's objectives and activities, set overall guidelines for project
execution, and evaluate reform proposals to enhance private sector competitiveness.
17.   Coordination. A small, permanent service-oriented Coordination Unit (the second
tier) would be responsible to ensure timely and effective implementation of the project
across all activities. It would include a fuill-time Project Coordinator from MICDES, and
a Private Sector Coordinator. The Project Coordinator will work closely with the Private
Sector Coordinator, labor representatives where critical, and with subcomponent
Implementation Unit Leaders ("Jefes de Ejecuci6n ", see below). The Private Sector
Coordinator would represent private sector interests, ensure that private sector concerns
are reflected during implementation, communicate necessary feedback to the Council, and



7
work closely with the representatives of individual private sector organizations assisting in
implementation of specific project components.
18.   Implementation. The Coordination Unit will be charged with overall support of
implementation of the project. An experienced team within MICDES and reporting to the
Coordination Unit will act as Financial Agent for the project, executing all procurement
and disbursement under the project and maintaining all financial records. In addition, an
agent acceptable to the Bank would be designated by the Government to undertake all
contracting for international consultants under the project. For each project
subcomponent, an Implementation Unit would be created, with a Leader (Jefe de
Ejecuci6n) responsible for project implementation and administrative procedures,
including preparation of documentation required for procurement and disbursement under
the Loan. They will work in close contact with the Project Coordinator, with regular
meetings as necessary to ensure timely and well-executed implementation.
19.   The project is anticipated to be implemented over the course of roughly three
years. Project completion is scheduled for December 31, 1998 and the project closing
date would be June 30, 1999. The Bank will devote significant resources to supervision as
detailed in Attachment III of the accompanying Technical Annex.
20.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY. Given the consistency of the Government's
economic program and the high degree of support which the private sector, labor groups,
and Government have expressed for this project, the prospects for sustained benefits are
good. The project includes specific features designed to enhance the sustainability of the
actions undertaken in each of the three main areas, through activities to build consensus
for development and implementation of reforms and to strengthen institutional capacity.
For example, the competition and regulatory subcomponents seek to build institutional
know-how and enforcement capacity that would outlive the lifespan of the project
through: secondment of local officials to corresponding agencies abroad; provision of
resident advisors to develop and help implement operating plans; and other focused
training activities. In a similar vein, the technological capabilities subcomponents are
intended to upgrade knowledge and build momentum in support of change through study
tours abroad to learn from international experience and through continuous interaction
with external consultants in joint team work. The public information subcomponents seek
not only to transfer skills but to act as a catalyst for institutionalization of programs for
improving public awareness and building public-private sector cooperation.
21.   Financing of project activities during implementation has been given a high priority
by the Government and by the Ministry of Finance, in particular. During the operational
phase, most of the primary institutions to be strengthened under the project, including the
legal registries and information network for trade and investment, would be largely self-
financing after start-up and would not rely on annual budgetary allocations.
22.   LESSONS LEARNED FROM PAST OPERATIONS. The proposed project
draws on the lessons learned from the Bank's worldwide experience in private sector



8
development and technical assistance delivery, as well as the Bank's regional experience in
Latin America and country-specific experience in El Salvador (see in particular,
Developing the Private Sector: The World Bank's Experience and Approach, The World
Bank, Washington, D.C.). Bank experience highlights the need for (i) a high level of
commitment by the government and implementing agencies; (ii) support that is driven by
demand from the private sector; (iii) targeting of training and institutional strengthening to
ensure follow-through and sustainability of reforms; (iv) flexibility in project design; and
(v) rigorous monitoring and supervision.
23.   Based on the Bank's experiences, the project contains a number of focused
components which the private sector and Government, working closely with the Bank,
have identified as critical for competitiveness enhancement. The project is viewed by the
Government as a critical vehicle to help implement the Government Development Plan
1994-1999 to be published in the near future, which includes a number of actions to
strengthen the enabling environment for private sector development to be implemented
under the project. Regarding human resource development, the project provides training
to officials responsible for implementation of new or reformed laws and regulations
(competition and consumer protection, bankruptcy, investment, financial markets) as well
as to officials responsible for the design of new programs (quality and productivity,
science and technology policy, technical training), through focused training activities,
provision of resident advisors, secondment and internships abroad, and through focused
international study tours. The project is also providing assistance for broader, longer-term
human resource development through the design of a national scheme for demand-driven
technical training. Although the project has a number of distinct subcomponents, it
benefits from an extremely capable and dedicated service-oriented Coordination Unit
within MICDES. In addition, the semi-annual Project Implementation Reviews are
designed to combine flexibility in execution with close monitoring and substantive support
by Bank staff. To facilitate monitoring and supervision, the project specifies identifiable
project outputs as implementation indicators (linked to stated Government objectives) and
quantitative measures as impact indicators, as listed in the Project Implementation Plan
(Attachment II of the Technical Annex).
24.   RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT. The Bank Group's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for El Salvador (discussed by the Executive Directors on
August 23, 1993 in conjunction with the Second Structural Adjustment Loan) is to
support the Government in meeting its development challenges through a blend of
adjustment lending, investment lending in selected sectors, analytical work to address
sectoral issues and guide the policy dialogue, technical assistance to deepen reforms and
strengthen institutions, and donor coordination. Under SAL II (Loan 3646-SV, FY94),
the Government eliminated most remaining trade duty exemptions, rationalized the tax
rate structure, and reduced distortions in economic incentives. A Public Sector
Modernization Loan, which is currently under preparation, will support the Government's
comprehensive medium-term public sector reform program. This proposed project is fully
consistent with the CAS. It addresses the most urgent constraints to private sector
development identified in a recent Country Economic Memorandum/Private Sector



9
Assessment (CEM/PSA) (El Salvador: Meeting the Challenge of Globalization, Report
No. 14109-ES, 1995) to create an enabling environment for private sector- and export-led
growth. According to that report, continued political and policy uncertainty were the
dominant concerns of enterprises, even in the post-civil war era; the public information
component of this project attempts to address such concems. Close behind were concerns
about human resources (to be addressed by the technological capabilities component) and
infrastructure (by the business environment component). It should be stressed that lack of
competent, well-trained workers came in first in the initial open-ended question on
constraints facing enterprises. Additional direct data from enterprises about compliance
costs suggests that regulatory requirements impose unnecessarily high costs on
enterprises.
25.   The Government has requested Bank support under the project due to two
principal factors: (i) the benefits of Bank world-wide experience and expertise in the areas
addressed by the project; and (ii) the Bank's ability to identify and coordinate world-class
advisors in support of El Salvador's reform program.
26.   AGREED ACTIONS. During negotiations, agreements were confirmed on: (i) a
list of Implementation Unit Leaders responsible for implementation; (ii) private sector
counterpart responsibilities for implementation, linking private sector associations with
specific project activities; (iii) the institutional responsibility for each of the legal registries
receiving assistance under the project. The Government has agreed to establish a detailed
reporting system satisfactory to the Bank, including agreed formats and financial,
implementation, impact and legal indicators; and to hold semi-annual reviews during
March and September of each year. The current version of the Project Implementation
Plan, including the annual Project Operational Plan and draft terms of reference for project
activities to be started during the first year also were reviewed during loan negotiations.
As a condition for loan effectiveness, the Government has agreed to submit to the Bank a
final Project Implementation Plan, containing detailed description of all project activities,
timing and monitoring indicators as part of the annual Project Operational Plan (at least
for the first year) along with terms of reference for all project activities.
27.   POVERTY CATEGORY. Not applicable as specified. This project, by helping
to create an enabling environment for more rapid, outward-oriented growth, indirectly
would help alleviate poverty to the extent that all incomes increase as productivity rises
and costs of intermediate and final goods fall. More directly, the project would aim to
improve equity to the extent that access to the enterprise sector by lower income
individuals is facilitated. As examples, all measures aimed at eliminating unnecessary
transactions and bureaucratic red tape should reduce costs proportionately more for
smaller enterprises, while more efficient provision of infrastructure services should
improve access not only for enterprises but for all consumers. Reform of legal registries,
in particular registries for movable assets, are critical to widening access to credit for
smaller enterprises. Effective enforcement of competition law should create a level
playing field to the advantage of all enterprises and lower prices for consumers;
appropriate enforcement of consumer protection law also should benefit consumers.



10
28.   ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS. The project is classified in Category C with no
adverse environmental impact anticipated.
29.   PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES. The project supports private sector
development and economic management. Efforts under this project to improve the
business environment and increase technological capacity are considered to be critical
components of an overall strategy in the area of private sector development (see
CEMIPSA). The project will also improve the country's economic management by
supporting the strengthening of participating institutions responsible for legal registries,
private participation in infrastructure services, provision of information on trade and
investment activities, and other activities.
30.   PARTICIPATORY APPROACH. The importance attached to this project by
the Government is indicated by the participation of the Minister of Economy as Chairman
of the National Council for Competitiveness, a joint private-public entity established to
promote the project and enhance its support. To ensure that reforms are demand-driven,
the private sector has been closely involved in project preparation from the beginning, and
will continue to participate directly through the National Council for Competitiveness and
through industry working groups established to periodically monitor and evaluate the
overall impact of the project. Labor representatives, local opinion leaders, as well as
elected members of Congress also have been consulted during project preparation,
through individual meetings, seminars and public forums. The extremely strong and active
participation of labor representatives, private sector business leaders and government
officials in the first Bank-sponsored "Teleconference on Competitiveness" with Professor
Michael Porter (Harvard Business School), that was held on May 9, 1995, is a positive
indication of the broad interest of these groups in the project and its objectives.
31.   PROJECT BENEFITS. The project is intended to facilitate change by improving
the enabling environment in those areas of the reform program that are most critical and
urgent to help the Government move toward its longer-term objectives of accelerating
outward-oriented private sector development and raising productivity. Rather than
attempting to implement deep changes in any one activity area, the project will strive to
build on the prevailing commitments in the private and public sectors and provide the
policy and institutional underpinnings for longer-term change in several broad areas. The
direct benefits of the project would include: improving regulatory frameworks to promote
competition; developing more client-focused institutional frameworks to support
technological and training development; and building institutional capacity for a more
responsive flow of public information. The project also would help build consensus among
private sector leaders, labor union representatives and government officials towards a
shared vision of competitiveness.
32.   FINANCIAL BENEFITS. The Government has selected a variable rate US
dollar single currency loan to improve its overall liability management and reduce its risks.
It considers US dollars to be an appropriate currency for its debt management strategy,



11
and prefers the standard country repayment terms for LIBOR-based single currency loans
compared with the shorter final maturity for fixed-rate single currency loans.
33.   RISKS. There appears to be widespread agreement across main stakeholders in
society that El Salvador must become globally competitive and must restructure its
economy accordingly. However, although a broad degree of consensus exists in the
country regarding the need to continue and deepen market-oriented economic reform,
there exists less than full unanimity regarding the rapid pace of intended Government
reforms and regarding some of its proposed instruments. There are some voices
suggesting that the domestic economy be protected for a longer period of time, and that
the opening-up process be more gradual. Within the Government, policies promoting
greater efficiency of infrastructure services have not yet been promoted with the same
boldness as those in the trade and financial areas. Encouragingly, the Government is fully
aware of these risks, and has requested assistance through this project precisely to help
address the most urgent challenges related to private sector development issues.
34.   Regarding project implementation and sustainability, the chief potential risk lies in
the limited base of local qualified personnel available for execution of this project, given
the high number of subcomponents and activities involved. In addition to the local
monitoring requirements for each activity, the coordination required across the various
implementing agencies adds an extra layer of complexity. There also is inherent
uncertainty regarding legislative action on new laws or changes to existing laws. To
minimize these risks and enhance project manageability, the project has been designed so
that the responsibilities of each implementing agency are sequenced to avoid
overburdening of key staff, and so that laws presented to Congress also are sequenced.
Careful attention has been and is being placed on specifying individual tasks comprising
project activities to the greatest level of detail possible as part of an annual Project
Operational Plan, to have the greatest level of confidence that proposed activities are
feasible and can be linked to monitorable implementation indicators. In addition, training
and institution-building activities are supported under several components of the project
(see para. 23). To assist in monitoring the ongoing impact of the project, the project
includes an enterprise-level survey administered in the third year to update baseline data
from an initial survey. Such systematic monitoring of impact will complement the periodic
monitoring and evaluation by business, labor, legislative assembly, and general public
working groups.



12
35.   RECOMMENDATION. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply
with the Bank's Articles of Agreement and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
September 11, 1995



Schedule A
EL SALVADOR
COMPETITIVENESS ENHANCEMENT TA PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Thousands)
Estimated Costs
[Project Subcobmponen:ts.             ....  .               Total..
t:   .   .:   .  .  .    . :::    ~~Forin  Lonl     Total ..
A. The Business Environment
1. Domestic competition                 990         610        1,600
2. Infrastructure svcs.                1,500       1,000       2,500
3. Dereg'n/Facilitation                3,550       1,975       5,525
4. Financial sector                     700         210         910
Sub-total                           6,740       3,795      10,535
B. Technological Capabilities          2,000       1,175       3,1 75
C. Public Information                  3,400       1,600       5,000
Project Administration                    0         600         600
Physical and Price Contingencies        690           0         6901
Total                                 12,8301      7,1701    20,00
Financing Plan
i _-_-_._._:_-_.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I  T: :li
Government                                0       4,000       4,000
Bank                                 12,830       3,170      16,000
Total                                12,830       7,170      20,000



Schedule B
EL SALVADOR
COMPETITIVENESS ENHANCEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement Methods by Category
(Bank financing shown in parentheses)
Thousands of US$
Category                     Procurement Method     Total
l __________________  J   LIB  Other  a/  N.B.F.
1. Consultant                0   13,330             13,330
services, training           (13,330)           (13,330)
and related
expenses b/
2. Goods and             1,820      900              2,720
Equipment c/        (1,820)    (850)              12,670)
3. Operating Expenses                       3,950    3,950
|Total              [ 1,820   14, 2301   3,950   20,000
[                   j  (1,820)  (14,180)       (0) (16,000)
N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed
a/ 'Other" category consists of shopping (goods) and employment of consultants.
b/ Contract of consultants according to World Bank guidelines.
c/ Procurement through national shopping (US$ 400,000) and international shopping (US$ 500,000) procedures.
d/ Operating expenses consist of incremental salaries and benefits, taxes, and installation charges
incurred by GOES to implement the Project.
Disbursement
(US$'000 equivalent)
Category       Amount |    Percentage    ]
1. Consultant services,   13,330   100% of foreign
training, and related          expenditures &
expenses                       100% of local
exp. net of tax
2. Goods/               2,670   100% of foreign
Equipment                      expenditures &
87% of local
expenditures
TOTAL                   16,000 ______L__
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
g             ~~~~~(US$'000)
|                   7      FY7    FY97       FY981
Annual                  5,000    7,0001   4,000
Cummulativel    5,000   12,0001  16,000



Schedule C
EL SALVADOR
COMPETITIVENESS ENHANCEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare:    Four months
(b)   Prepared by:              MICDES, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Justice, National Registry Center, INSAFORP, and
CONACYT with Bank staff
(c)   First Bank mission:       March 1995
(d)   Appraisal mission departure: May 1995
(e)   Negotiations:             August 1995
(f)    Board Presentation:      September 1995 (planned)
(g)   Planned Effectiveness:    November 1995



SCHEDULjQ
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EL SALVADOR
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
IAs of June 30, 1996)
21 Iowa  d *c   hAl dkbrshd              .331.75                                                 27.99
Of wticl7 SECAL4, SALo, mid Prgnu Lo
Ln. 3293-ESL    1991      B Sdvador          Stuctnal A4uintment                    75.00
Ln. 3646ESL     1994      a Salvador         Second Sauctuaal AdpAtmrent            50.00
8btaton                             125.00
Ln. 28734ESL    1988      E Salvador         Eahuaks Reconstrucon                   65.00                     11.00
Ln. 3348-ESL    1991      e Savhdor          Sociad Sector Rehaboation              26.00                      5.35
Ln. 3389-ESL    1992      B Salvador         Powe Seor Technical Aaaistnce           11.00                     5.42
Ln. 3576-ESL    1993      E Shlvador         Agrieulura Sector Reform               40.00                     36.11
Ln. 3648-ESL    1994      e Salvador         Tectiecal Asance                        2.50                      0.81
Subtoatl                            144.50                     58.89
Totl                                 478.25       27.99
Of which has bon rpaid              166.99        7.41
Total now held by Bank and IDA      309.26        20.58
Armount sold:         5.15
Of whic ha boon raid: 5. 1 5
Total Undasburmd                     58.69         0.00        58.69
MdeS: LA2CO
File: N:\Md Sava\disbur\olsah d\V-06-95.x
July 13. 1995



SCHEDULE D
Page 2 of 2
EL SALVADOR
STiSTDKr OF src lWZmSTnMTs
An of June 30, 1935
(in millions US Dollars)
- Original Gross Coianots -  xeld    Hold    Undish
Fiscal Years                                                                        ire     IFC                       by       by       icl.
.citted                  Obligor                     Type of Busiaass             Loan    Equity  Partic  Totals  ryC         Partic  Partic
1359                   a/ Industrias Textiles. S.A. Textiles                           .14        _              .14        _        _        _
L9S9                   a/ Hotel.s de Centra America Tourism                            .t0      .33 1.3                     -        - 
T,lemovil Zl Salvador, S. Industrial services              1.70      .20    2.50    4.40    1.90    2.50
Total gross commitments b/                                 2.44      .53    2.50    5.47
Lasx cancellations. terinations, repayment & sales           .74     .33             1.07
Total cox±itats now held c/                                1.70      .20    2.50    4.40    1.90    2.50 _
Total cmi4a.nts hold and pending coitments
Total IASdiSbursed caitments                                   -       -             8 o.00
i Znveatents which have boen fully cancelled, terminated, written-off, sold, redeemed, or repaid.
i/ Gross c±tments  consist of approved and signed projects.
o Hld comsitmants consist of disbursed and -Adisbursed investts.









-
:S
:: ::
m
-)
s-L : S .-
; - l 8 - d



