Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6679-ES
TECHNICAL ANNEX
EL SALVADOR
COMPETITIVENESS ENHANCEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 11, 1995



Currency Equivalents
(As of July 1, 1995)
Currency Unit = Colon (¢)
US$ 1.0 = 08.75
Abbreviations and Acronyms Used
ANEP        National Association of Private Enterprises (Asociaci6n Nacional de la Empresa
Privada)
ASI         Salvadoran Association of Industry (Asociaci6n Salvadorena de Industriales)
CCI         Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Camara de Comercio e Industria)
CEM         Country Economic Memorandum
CENTA       Centro Nacional de Tecnologia Agropecuaria y Forestal (National Center
Agricultural, Fishery, and Forestry Technology)
COEXPORT  Confederation of Exporters (Confederaci6n de Exportadores)
CONACYT   Consejo Nacional de la Cienciay Technologia (National Science and Technology
Council)
FUSADES   Fundaci6n Salvadorena para el Desarrollo Economico y Social (Salvadoran
Foundation for Economic and Social Development
GTZ         Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (German Technical Assistance
Agency)
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
IMF         International Monetary Fund
INSAFORP  Instiluto Salvadoreno de Formaci6n Profesional (Salvadoran Professional
Training Institute)
LIB         Limited International Bidding
LIBOR       London Inter-bank Offer Rate
LLR         Lender of Last Resort
MIF         Multilateral Investment Fund of IDB
MICDES      Ministry of Coordination of Economic and Social Development
MSTQ        Metrology, Standards, Testing, and Quality
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
OAS         Organization of American States
ONI         Oficina Nacional de Inversiones (National Investment Office)
PRISA       Proyecto de Reforma e Inversion Sectorial Agropecuaria (Agriculture Sector
Reform Loan No.3576-ES)
PSA         Private Sector Assessment
SAL II      Second Structural Adjustment Loan (No. 3646-SV)
SMEs        Small and Medium Enterprises
SOE         Statement of Expenditure



EL SALVADOR
COMPETITIVENESS ENHANCEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION A: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Background .................................................................1
Country and Sector Profile .                    ................................................................1
Productivity-Based  Development Strategy ....................................................1......
Project Objectives ................................................................4
Project Components ................................................................5
Business Environment .................................................................5
Technological Capabilities .........................                       ....................................... 12
Public Information.                      ................................................................. 16
SECTION B: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION                                                                            ............................... 19
Project Organization  ................................................................  19
Project Costs and Financing ................................................................ 20
Financial Benefits ................................................................                                   20
Procurement ................................................................. 21
Disbursements ................................................................                                        21
Monitoring  and Evaluation ................................................................                                      22
Supervision ................................................................                                          22
Monitoring  Indicators ................................................................                               22
Accounts and Audits ................................................................                                  23
ATTACHMENT I: PROJECT ESTIMATED COSTS
ATTACHMENT II: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN MATRIX
ATTACHMENT III: PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
This document and the accompanying Memorandum of the President are based on the findings of identification, preparation
and appraisal missions which visited El Salvador during early 1995, led by Mr. Mark Dutz. Other contributors to the report
and participants in these missions were: Messrs/Mesdames Daniel Crisafulli, Thomas Glaessner, Roberto Panzardi (LA2PS);
Clive Harris (LA2IN); Elkyn Chaparro (FPDVP); Heywood Fleisig, Claudio Frischtak, Kris Hallberg, Ioannis Kessides (PSD);
Carlos Braga, Eduardo Talero (IENTI); Fernando Montes-Negret (FSD); Alejandra Cox Edwards (ESP); Raul Toro (LEGPS);
Nicholas Bruck, Saha Meyanathan (EDIFP); Jill Wilkins (EXTDR); Wayne Edisis (CFAFI); Eduardo Giraldez, Robert Kelner,
Paulo Roberto Pavao, Salvador Valdes-Prieto (Consultants). Messrs. Edilberto L. Segura and Robert M. Lacey are the
Department Director and Division Chief, respectively, for this operation.






EL SALVADOR
COMPETITIVENESS ENHANCEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
SECTION A: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
L   BACKGROUND
(i)    Country and Sector Profile
1.    El Salvador's GDP was estimated at US$ 8.1 billion equivalent in 1994, with per capita
income of US$ 1,450 equivalent. The country has a dynamic private sector, and has the
reputation of being one of the most entrepreneurial economies in Latin America. With the
privatization of commercial banks and finance companies, the dismantling of state agricultural
marketing, and the sale of a sizable share of state-owned productive assets, the private sector now
accounts for approximately 93 percent of total employment and produces over 90 percent of
GDP. The economy is predominantly manufacturing and service-oriented, with secondary and
tertiary production accounting for 65 percent of employment and over 90 percent of output
(services alone accounts for 41.5 and 66 percent, respectively -- with commerce as the greatest
contributor to employment and sales). Of its population of roughly 5.6 million people, an
estimated almost 20 percent currently reside abroad, with about 85 percent of these living in the
United States.
2.    After more than a decade of civil war and stagnation (1979-91), GDP growth rebounded
from 3.5 percent in 1990-91 to 7.4 in 1992-93 and 6.0 in 1994. Inflation has fallen to 8.9 percent
in 1994, from a high of over 30 percent in 1986. The current account deficit (excluding official
transfers) fell from 7.0 percent of GDP in 1989 to 5.7 in 1992 and 3.7 in 1994. This impressive
performance reflects in part the impact of sound macro-economic policies supported by the IMF
and two World Bank structural adjustment loans approved since 1989.
(ii)   A Productivity-Based Development Strategv
3.    Notwithstanding the achievements of the 1989-94 period, at least four considerations have
led to a reevaluation of the previous development strategy:
* Per capita GDP in 1994 was still below 1975-79 (pre-war) levels, and poverty appears to have
remained very high. Sustained high and more equitable growth appears urgent to alleviate
poverty and ensure continued peace.
* The recent recovery in economic growth was fueled by growth in the non-tradable sector,
manifest through a service and construction boom as pent-up wartime demand was unleashed
and foreign remittances increased (worker remittances have increased faster than any other



2
inflow, and in 1994 accounted for 9.7 percent of GDP and 73 percent of national savings).
Conversely, there has been a decline in exports of goods and non-factor services as a
percentage of GDP, from roughly 35 percent in the pre-war years to 16 in 1990 and 13.5 in
1994; though the level of real exports has started to recover from its war-time slump, growth
has not been spectacular and the economy has a long way to go to reach the export and
outward orientation levels of the East Asian economies. Slow export growth appears due to a
combination of three factors: structural factors resulting from the consequence of the civil war
and remaining constraints to exporters; worsening terms of trade; and real exchange rate
appreciation. To be sustainable, future economic growth should be based not only on an
expansion in industrial and agricultural production but also on higher export levels.
*  To reduce dependence on low-cost labor as the main source of comparative advantage,
economic growth must be based on continual increases in productivity. The fundamental basis
for higher productivity growth lies in increased competition (intemal as well as external),
investments in physical infrastructure, and investments in human capital (in 1993, formal
education averaged only 5 years).
*  International economic integration and the globalization of production and investment create
opportunities for developing countries to increase their share of international production and
trade, and to become competitive in technologically more advanced products and services. To
facilitate higher levels of sustainable private-sector-led economic growth, El Salvador needs to
enhance its outward orientation and deepen participation in the global economy, improve
attractiveness to foreign investors, strengthen channels of technology diffusion, and put
technology to use in the productive sectors.
4.    The Calder6n Sol Administration took office in June 1994 and announced its economic
program in February 1995. The main stated objective of the program is to achieve more rapid and
equitable growth by enhancing global competitiveness and entering a new, productivity-oriented
stage of development. In practice, given the current preponderance of the private sector in
economic activity coupled with a still weak set of support systems for private enterprises, the aim
is to create an environment facilitating increased productivity based on lower transactions costs
and increased dynamism of an export-oriented private sector. In the medium term, the plan aims
to (i) promote domestic and foreign investment and incorporate the country into the global
production chain by lowering the costs of operating in the country, and (ii) strengthen the public
sector's role as a facilitator of private sector development and increase the efficiency of
infrastructure services through a restructuring and/or privatization of public enterprises.
5.    To achieve these objectives, the Government has announced actions in four main areas: (i)
accelerating trade liberalization by gradually reducing the range of tariff rates from 1-20% in 1995
to 0-6% in 1999; (ii) modernizing the public sector; (iii) strengthening fiscal discipline by
increasing revenue collection and lowering expenditures; and (iv) establishing a progressive and
voluntary dollarization of the exchange regime. The Government Development Plan 1994-1999
(Plan de Gobiemo), to be published in the near future, includes the following provisions to
improve the enabling environment for private sector development: the strengthening of
competition (a transparent schedule of tariff liberalization until 1999, the enactment of a



3
competition law and the reform of the consumer protection law, privatization and the introduction
of competition in the provision of infrastructure services, modernization of the financial system),
the need for international promotion of the country (foreign investment, tourism), and the
generation of a cooperative environment between business leaders and workers for continuous
productivity upgrading (worker and management training and information dissemination
initiatives, and more flexible worker compensation schemes tied to productivity).
6.    As part of its broader development strategy, the Government is aware of the urgency and
critical importance of upgrading human capital formation. During the last administration, the
Ministry of Education began to address the problems of the education system by policies aimed at
reallocating resources to favor basic education, improving the quality of the basic education
curriculum, and decentralizing services to improve efficiency. Since 1989, the total enrollment
rate for education grades 1 to 6 already has increased from 76 to 83 percent by 1993. The current
Government is consolidating, continuing, and expanding the human capital formation efforts of
the past administration. To this end, the Government has established a National Commission for
Education, Science and Development (Comisi6n Nacional de Educaci6n, Cienciay Desarrollo)
with participation of leading academic, business and political figures. The Commission has
proposed a framework for broad reform of all levels of the educational and scientific system in the
country. Congruent with the Commission's proposal, the Government is planning a major effort
to expand access to preschool and basic education, to improve education quality, and to
modernize and strengthen education management, under a US$ 80.2 million Basic Education
Modernization Project jointly funded by IBRD and IDB. The Government is also committed to
improve and develop the framework for technical training and technology upgrading.
7.    The Government also is aware of the need to direct policies and programs towards
poverty reduction, and has set the alleviation of poverty as its principal social objective. In March
1995, President Calder6n Sol announced the Government's social action plan, which aims to
reduce poverty, promote social development, and improve economic opportunity and social
mobility for all Salvadorans. The plan calls for progress toward a long-term objective of
establishing a national network of basic social services that assures access to all the population,
especially the most vulnerable groups. In addition to human capital formation through education
and training, it places special emphasis on health and nutrition, the well-being of the poorest
groups, basic infrastructure, community development and the monitoring of social programs. This
Competitiveness Enhancement Technical Assistance Project, by helping to create an enabling
environment for more rapid, outward-oriented growth, indirectly helps alleviate poverty to the
extent that all incomes increase as productivity rises and costs of intermediate and final goods fall.
More directly, the project improves equity to the extent that access to the enterprise sector is
facilitated. As examples, all measures aimed at eliminating unnecessary transactions and
bureaucratic red tape should reduce costs proportionately more for smaller enterprises, while
more efficient provision of infrastructure services should improve access not only for enterprises
but for all consumers. Reform of legal registries, in particular registries for movable assets, are
critical to widening access to credit for smaller enterprises. Effective enforcement of competition
law should create a level playing field to the advantage of all enterprises and lower prices for
consumers, while appropriate enforcement of consumer protection laws should benefit all
consumers.



4
8.    The Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy for El Salvador discussed by the
Executive Directors on August 23, 1993, in conjunction with the Second Structural Adjustment
Loan operation, is to support the Government in meeting its development challenges through a
blend of adjustment lending, investment lending in selected sectors, analytical work to address
sectoral issues and guide the policy dialogue, technical assistance to deepen reforms and
strengthen institutions, and donor coordination. Under SAL II (Loan 3646-SV, FY1994), the
Government eliminated most remaining trade duty exemptions, rationalized the tax rate structure,
and reduced distortions in economic incentives. A Public Sector Modernization Loan, which is
being prepared concurrently with this proposed operation, is intended to support the
Government's comprehensive medium-term public sector reform program.
9.    This project addresses the most urgent constraints to private sector development identified
in a recent Country Economic Memorandum/Private Sector Assessment (CEM/PSA) (El
Salvador: Meeting the Challenge of Globalization, Report No. 14109-SV, The World Bank,
1995), in order to help create an enabling environment for increased productivity and higher
private sector- and export-led growth. As part of the PSA, a survey elicited the judgments of
entrepreneurs and senior managers of over 200 Salvadoran enterprises regarding obstacles to
enterprise operation and growth. According to that survey, continued political and policy
uncertainty were the dominant concerns of enterprises, even in the post-civil war era; the Public
Information component of this project attempts to address such concerns. Close behind were
concerns about human resources (to be addressed by the technological capabilities component)
and infrastructure (by the business environment component). It should be stressed that lack of
competent, well-trained workers came in first in the initial open-ended question on constraints
facing enterprises. Additional direct data from enterprises about compliance costs suggests that
regulatory requirements impose unnecessarily high costs on enterprises.
HI.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
10.   The proposed Competitiveness Enhancement Technical Assistance Project is intended to
support the Government's program to accelerate outward-oriented private sector development
and raise productivity. To start moving toward these desirable long-term objectives, the project
would facilitate change by providing focused technical assistance to help the Government
progress toward three main goals, namely: (a) to improve the business environment and lower
the cost of doing business in El Salvador; (b) to improve the environment for technological
capabilities of private sector enterprises and labor, in order to raise productivity and international
competitiveness; and (c) to improve the environment for building consensus on economic
competitiveness issues, by facilitating the flow of public information and public sector-private
sector dialogue.
11.   The economic reforms pursued since 1989 achieved macroeconomic stability and a more
open trade regime. In the wake of these reforms, however, a large agenda of "second generation"
reforms -- legal, regulatory, and institutional -- must be designed and adopted in order to create
an enabling environment for private sector activity which stimulates and fosters productivity
increases. This project would support two types of activities aimed at facilitating change, at times



5
within the same subcomponent: (i) in a number of areas, new laws or regulations need to be
prepared, or existing laws and regulations need to be reformed; for those cases, the project would
help to focus and accelerate policymaking; (ii) in other areas, legal and regulatory reforms have
been adopted, and what is needed is a strategy and institutional capacity to implement the reforms
and monitor the results; in these areas, the project would concentrate on institutional reform,
monitoring, and evaluation.
IIL PROJECT COMPONENTS
12.   The project would consist of three substantive components: (i) a Business Environment
component with four subcomponents (clusters of activities), to be implemented by the Ministry of
Economy, Ministry of Coordination of Economic and Social Development (MICDES), Ministry
of Justice, and the Central Bank; (ii) a Technological Capabilities component with three
subcomponents, to be implemented by the Ministry of Economy, National Council on Science and
Technology (CONACYT) and the Salvadoran Institute for Professional Training (INSAFORP);
and (iii) a Public Information component with two subcomponents, to be implemented by the
Ministry of Economy and MICDES. A fourth component would strengthen Project
Administration (paras. 23-26). Project physical and cost contingencies comprise the
remainder of project financing. Attachment I provides estimated project costs by activity.
Attachment II (Project Implementation Plan) provides greater detail regarding project objectives,
activities, outputs, institutional responsibilities, monitoring indicators and timing.
(i)    Business Environment (US$ 10.5 million, 52.5 % of Droject costs)
Domestic Competition (USS 1.6 million, 8. 0 % ofproject costs)
13.   According to the recent CEM/PSA, unfair competition appears to be a serious problem in
El Salvador. A majority of enterprises reported experiencing informal or illegal competition
problems, with listed concerns including anti-competitive practices, enterprises selling below cost,
and avoidance of regulations. Strengthening of competition to ensure that market forces result in
productivity increases is a critical commitment of the Government. In the Government
Development Plan 1994-1999, the immediate agenda of actions to be undertaken include
continued and sharp tariff liberalization, the passing of a competition law before end 1995, and
reforms to the consumer protection law also before end 1995. The project would support efforts
to strengthen competition in three areas: competition law; consumer protection law; and a
framework for enterprise restructuring. The Ministry of Economy is responsible for implementing
competition and consumer protection activities, and the Ministry of Justice for enterprise
restructuring activities.
Competition law and enforcement. The announced liberalization of import tariffs lowers the
cost of foreign goods entering the country, and thereby should result in sharper competition
from abroad. However, in the Salvadoran environment, tariff liberalization alone is likely not
to be sufficient stimulus for competition in local markets given the historical pattems of anti-
competitive cartel agreements and effective geographic segmentation in many markets,
especially in non-tradable goods and distribution channels. Article 1 10 of the Constitution



6
prohibits monopolistic practices, but there is no complementary law or enforcement of any
sort against such forms of anti-competitive practices.
The project would provide technical assistance to the Ministry of Economy to complete
preparation of a law to promote competition and prevent monopolistic and restrictive
practices that harm economic efficiency. The project also would assist in setting up an
environment for effective implementation of the law, including the identification of laws and
regulatory impediments that could delay implementation and action plans to address such
obstacles; the preparation of guidelines; public awareness, training and constituency-building
activities to support implementation; provision of resident advisors and intemships with
competition agencies in more experienced jurisdictions; enforcement and other operational
procedures; required office equipment such as data processing, information filing and retrieval
systems; and safeguards for ensuring business confidentiality. These activities would be
coordinated closely with the complementary consumer protection and enforcement activities
(see below).
* Consumer protection law and enforcement. A consumer protection law was adopted in El
Salvador in 1992, and revisions to that law were recently passed by the Legislative Assembly
(July 1995). However, the contents or even the existence of the law is not widely known, and
enforcement to date has been ineffective. In its immediate agenda, the Government
Development Plan recognizes the need in El Salvador for consumers to play a stronger role
through their purchase decisions in exerting pressure on firms to provide higher quality goods
at competitive prices, and therefore calls for two specific sets of actions regarding consumer
protection: (i) the strengthening of the Consumer Protection Office; and (ii) further reforms to
the law, to give more power to the institution responsible to defend consumer interests with
the specification of penalties for violations, in particular in the area of unfair advertising.
The project would provide technical assistance to the Ministry of Economy to create
incentives for more effective enforcement and to study the possibility of further revisions to
the law, including analysis of the current version of the law and the current institutional design
of the Consumer Protection Office and attendant enforcement mechanisms; necessary changes
in complementary laws and regulations would also be identified, together with an action
program to change them. The project would provide recommendations for desirable changes
and amendments to the law, and proposals for improved incentives for wider compliance and
more appropriate and effective enforcement within the country. The project would assist in
institutional strengthening, including training, information dissemination and constituency-
building activities, provision of resident advisors, assistance in redesign of enforcement and
other operational procedures, as well as purchases of required office equipment. These
activities would be coordinated closely with the complementary competition law and
enforcement activities (see above).
* Enterprise restructuring. At present, the available mechanisms for enterprise debt
restructuring in El Salvador constrain access to credit (particularly by small and medium
enterprises) and act as a barrier to new entry and more competition. Formal bankruptcy
proceedings are virtually never undertaken due to: (i) cumbersome and impractical procedural



7
requirements; (ii) legal focus on criminal action against debtor rather than rehabilitation and
orderly distribution of assets in liquidation under bankruptcy law; and (iii) failure of the law to
provide courts with sufficient guidance on resolution of common transactions. Out-of-court
workouts are adequate in El Salvador only for large, established firms which maintain
relationships with only one or two commercial banks. Smaller firms are not well-served by
the system. The lack of assurance that all creditors will be treated equitably constrains the
entry of new financial intermediaries and the introduction of new lending instruments, thereby
enabling the persistence of oligopolistic market practices among existing banks. While large
firms may be subject to slightly higher lending margins as a result, smaller enterprises are
proportionally more affected through the resulting lack of financial innovation to serve them
(e.g., supplier credit) and consequent restraint of credit supply.
The project would undertake a dual-track approach to improving provisions for enterprise
restructuring in El Salvador. First, the project would support a focused study to support the
creation and development of an alternative dispute resolution mechanism, along with training
activities for the legal, corporate, and judicial community to facilitate use of the mechanism.
In parallel, but with the primary impact accruing in the medium term, the project would
provide technical assistance to identify current impediments to court bankruptcy proceedings
and to design a modern bankruptcy law with its attendant regulations. Seminars would be
held with legal and judicial personnel to help build consensus in the reforms and to provide
training to facilitate implementation and use of the new provisions.
Private Provision of Infrastructure Services (US$ 2.5 million, 12.5 % ofproject costs)
14.   El Salvador cannot fulfill its potential for export-led growth without overhauling and
modernizing its telecommunications, power and transport networks. In the PSA survey, the three
leading infrastructure constraints were problems with telecommunications, voltage fluctuations,
and the state of roads. Almost half of all enterprises interviewed said that problems of
communication and transportation created difficulties in fulfilling agreements for the timely
delivery of their products. Roads were especially limiting to those enterprises that export the
most -- larger and industrial firms. Quite generally, the poor condition of infrastructure saps the
competitiveness of the private sector. Encouragingly, the Government of El Salvador has explicitly
recognized the importance of regulatory reform and privatization through several policy initiatives and
pronouncements. In particular, the Government has acknowledged the importance of rapid
development of infrastructure as an engine of economic growth. Such development will require a
substantial increase in the historic levels of private and public investment, which can only be achieved
through an acceleration of the process of sectoral reform and restructuring. These reforms should seek
to strengthen the efficiency with which the infrastructure sectors meet users' demands through the
removal of unnecessary regulatory controls, and through a realignment of the respective roles of the
public and private sectors. Establishing appropriate legal and regulatory frameworks, efficient price
levels and structures, and clear pricing mechanisms are fundamental to attracting private investrnent
capital.
15.   However, only modest progress has been made to date in the areas of regulatory reform
and privatization of infrastructure services. This lack of progress can be attributed primarily to the



8
absence of a coherent plan of action to support policy reform and sector reorganization. It should
be recognized that successful privatization entails a number of specific complex and interrelated
activities with an appropriate sequencing. In infrastructure, the transfer of ownership is only one step
in a long and complex process. The benefits of privatization come from a reliance on market forces,
and thus the introduction competition in areas where it is feasible. Therefore, the economic analysis of
appropriate structural options is an important determinant of whether privatization ultimately leads to
the expected efficiency improvements. Following privatization, the infrastructure sectors will most
likely contain substantial elements of monopoly in supply, and therefore for an extended period of time
will entail a mixture of monopoly and competitive elements. In such markets, regulatory issues are
most complex, and a substantial burden therefore is placed on the regulatory process. Thus, the
establishment of an appropriate regulatory framework is an indispensable precondition for successful
and sustainable privatization. For example, the value of the privatized entities will depend critically
upon the model of industry structure adopted and the regulatory framework that is implemented;
therefore, the financial accounting valuation, another necessary component of privatization, must
follow and not precede the economic and regulatory analysis.
16. In view of the detailed and complex steps that are needed in proper sequencing to undertake
privatization, the lack of an action plan is especially problematic. This lack is evidenced by the large
number of consulting activities that have been undertaken or are currently underway, financed by
different multilateral agencies, without ensuring that these activities are well-identified
components of a carefully designed action plan. To overcome these obstacles, this project would
serve as the vehicle to facilitate such coordination by assisting through the creation of an
infrastructure coordination unit and through the design of action plans and regulatory frameworks
for telecommunications and power. The project subsequently would finance a study to examine the
potential of expanding a similar approach to other services. MICDES is the entity responsible for
implementing activities within this subcomponent.
* Creation of infrastructure coordination unit. To rapidly improve infrastructure services
critical for competitiveness, it is important that a much greater degree of coordination and
coherence be achieved, both within the Government of El Salvador and among multilateral
agencies.
The project would finance a coordination unit to oversee the design of a privatization action
plans for telecommunications and energy, to oversee the design of terms of reference for the
various consulting assignments (including establishment of legal and regulatory frameworks,
scope of regulatory authorities, economic analyses of structural options and tariffs, financial
accounting analyses), and to monitor their execution. This would imply that in the future no
consulting assignments or activities would be undertaken unless they are well-defined
components of such action plans.
* Design of action plans and required regulatory frameworks. In the priority areas of
telecommunications and energy, there already exists some funding for consulting services to
develop the legal, regulatory and institutional framework and set up the regulatory entity,
including a US$ 1.97 million IDB project for restructuring and privatization of energy and
telecommunications sectors with MIF grant financing, and a US$ 1.2 million PHRD grant



9
with privatization as a possible component (connected with an IBRD energy sector
modernization project). This project would finance required coordination activities, as
described above. Based on this work, the project would study the potential of leveraging the
experience gained in telecommunications and energy to other infrastructure services. The
financing of transactions-related expenses tied to the sale of publicly held infrastructure assets
is proposed to be included in the complementary Public Sector Modernization Project
currently under preparation.
Deregulation and Facilitation (US$ 5.5 million, 27.5 % ofproject costs)
17.   Many laws, regulations and procedures in El Salvador are outdated and impose
burdensome bureaucratic requirements that restrict production and trade, and unnecessarily
increase the cost of doing business for both domestic and foreign investors. For example, an
investor must undertake over twenty different steps (down from a high of over forty) in order to
establish a corporation ready to do business. On the trade side, in spite of the ongoing process of
liberalization, there are a variety of regulatory and administrative impediments to trade and
commerce. Within the legal registries, delays have reached such a point that 1-2 years often are
required for an enterprise to register ownership of assets. The project would assist in three areas:
trade and investment deregulation, trade and investment facilitation, and the modernization of key
legal registries. The Ministry of Economy is the entity responsible for implementing all activities
within this subcomponent except for the legal registries, which fall under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Justice.
* Trade and investment deregulation. On the trade side, the project would support the Ministry
of Economy in carrying out a study of legaVregulatory impediments to trade and commerce.
Building on the findings of the recent PSA, several sectors with a particularly onerous
legal/regulatory burden, including pharmaceuticals and alcoholic beverages, would form the
focus of this effort.
On the investment side, the project would provide assistance to the Government in the
preparation of a new investment law, which would consider eliminating any differences
between treatment of foreign and domestic investors. In addition, the law and its attendant
regulations would specify clearly a limited set of pre-requisites for investment and would
eliminate all unnecessary administrative steps. Finally, with support of the project, the law
would establish a one-stop window (Oficina Nacional de Inversiones, or ONI) where
investors would be able to file documents and receive assistance in undertaking their projects.
* Trade and investment facilitation. As deregulation proceeds, a simultaneous effort should get
underway to build an institutional capacity for trade and investment facilitation/promotion.
On the trade side, a major legal/regulatory reform of Salvadoran customs and export
procedures has recently been completed. Building on recent computerization of customs and
export procedures, the project would provide technical assistance to design and install an
integrated system to facilitate international trade (Trade Point). By decision of the major
stakeholders, the Trade Point would be conceived as a first step in the establishment in El
Salvador of a comprehensive Trade Facilitation System similar to those operating in



10
Singapore or Brazil. Consequently, the Trade Point will have extensive services and be linked
with government and service organizations within the country through electronic data
interchange, and with worldwide networks through Internet. The Trade Point would provide
the following services: import/export processing, import/export information and technical
support; information on worldwide trade opportunities; trade statistics and analytical support;
trade-related services -- banking, insurance, transport, warehousing, etc. -- through affiliated
commercial enterprises; customized trade and investment-related studies and technical
assistance through affiliated organizations such as local universities and foundations; access to
worldwide information services and data bases; telecommunications services -- electronic
mail, teleconferencing, remote file transfer, facsimile, etc. The project would finance technical
assistance: (i) to identify any remaining legal and regulatory impediments to implement the
Trade Point, and undertake an action plan to address such obstacles; (ii) to develop a business
plan and design the systems and communications networks; computing and
telecommunications hardware, software and licenses; training; and marketing/constituency-
building necessary to establish the Trade Point. The parent public/private sector corporation
would provide initial capital for facilities, working capital and operating costs of the Trade
Point.
With respect to investment promotion, recent experience in El Salvador is credited with the
creation of 45,000 export-oriented jobs. However, the program requires support to improve
targeting of potential foreign investors and promote linkages between private and public
efforts to attract investment. Furthermore, the bilateral donor support which has sustained
this program is being phased out. In the area of export promotion, current public and private-
sector efforts require strengthening and streamlining. The project would provide assistance in
the preparation of organizational plans for two joint public-private agencies to promote
investment and exports, respectively, along with a strategy for identifying promotion
opportunities. This activity would benefit from a very close coordination with the public
information team.
Legal registries. Reform of Salvadoran legal registries, a potential tool for reducing
transactions costs and widening access to credit for small and medium enterprises, has yet to
be undertaken in several key areas. The registries for movable assets are not widely used due
to an inadequate legal framework for secured transactions; the few movable assets that have
been used as collateral to date are registered in the immovable assets registry. In addition, the
commercial registries are burdened with a large number of redundant registry requirements as
well as overly-complex procedures and a weak operational capacity. The legal framework for
protection of intellectual property has been recently strengthened as a result of international
agreements. However, the institutional capacity of the registry remains weak. The project
would provide sequential assistance to: (i) undertake a thorough review of the current legal
framework for movable assets and commercial registries; (ii) design and implement an action
plan for effective reform, including information dissemination, training and constituency-
building activities; and (iii) upgrade registry procedures and information systems for the three
registries. Improved provisions for registration of immovable assets are also important for
increased security in lending and reduced transactions costs. However, this area is the subject



11
of the Bank-supported PRISA and Land Administration projects, as well as bilateral
assistance, and would not be addressed by this project.
Financial Markets Development (US$ 0.9 million, 4.5 % of project costs)
18.   The project aims to ensure the sustainability of reforms already undertaken in the financial
sector and to foster the development of a more efficient financial system which can support
private sector-led growth and increased international trade. To this end, the project would
provide focused support to consider removing legal and regulatory barriers to cross-border trade
and investment in financial services; develop an appropriate policy and regulatory framework for
liquidity provision, deposit insurance, and resolution/liquidation of failed financial institutions; and
improve certain aspects of the payment system. The project activities would complement the
ongoing Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) program to strengthen supervision under the
Superintendency of the Financial Sector and would be implemented in close coordination with
that program. The Central Bank is the entity responsible for implementing activities within this
subcomponent.
* Internationalization of financial service provision. As a result of the increasing integration of
the Salvadoran business community into international trading relationships and the large
Salvadoran community resident in the United States, the Salvadoran financial sector is
committed to increased integration into world financial markets. To this end, the project
would support a review of the legal/regulatory framework governing provision of banking and
non-banking services to identify impediments to greater internationalization of financial
service provision. Activities would include a systematic review of the financial sector
legal/regulatory framework to develop reforms to permit greater internationalization and freer
trade in financial services. Both banking and non-banking financial services would be
examined. In addition, the project would support design of a new law governing financial
groups to ensure a strong framework for the development of both domestic and cross-border
financial services.
* Liquidity Support. Deposit Insurance and Failure Resolution. In the context of increased
internationalization of the Salvadoran financial system, policies for deposit insurance, liquidity
support, and failure resolution have taken on greater importance. Currently, the framework to
address financial institutions with liquidity and/or solvency problems remains weak in critical
areas, thereby increasing systemic risk and raising the cost of any future financial crisis. The
framework for provision of liquidity by the Central Bank is not well-defined while the
guidelines for a deposit insurance fund remain to be established'. By contrast, the legal
framework for government intervention in troubled banks is relatively well-defined; however,
the procedures for liquidation of intervened banks are time-consuming and inefficient.
Liquidation procedures established by the Commercial Code create incentives for delay (3-4
years required for liquidation of a bank) and limit options such as rapid sale/merger of the
intervened institution. The project would: (i) help define the Central Bank's role in provision
Although there is currently no deposit insurance fnd in El Salvador, the Central Bank insures up to 40,000
colones (approx. US$ 4,600) per account.



12
of liquidity (in dollars and colones) to banks as Lender of Last Resort (LLR); (ii) assist in the
design of a self-financing (by participating banks) deposit insurance system; and (iii) review
the Commercial Code and propose reforns to facilitate rapid and flexible liquidation of
troubled banks.
Payment systems. The payment systems for activities such as check clearing, large value
transfers, and securities trading form a basic component of the financial infrastructure of the
country. Given the current growth trend of the financial system and the needs of greater
internationalization, failure to address reform of payment systems would result in increased
transactions costs, and increase risks to the Central Bank (and systemic risk). No system or
standards for automated processing of checks are currently in place. The sole check
clearinghouse in El Salvador (operated by the Central Bank) currently serves only the capital
city. In regional cities, settlement takes place on a bilateral basis via check, thereby increasing
systemic risk and transaction time. The result is an average clearing time of 3-4 days within
the capital and up to 7 days outside the capital city. In addition, no system currently exists for
providing same-day finality for large value inter-bank transfers, resulting in greater risks and
higher transactions costs. Settlement of funds transfers associated with securities transactions
is a particular area of concern: due to the lack of a same-day inter-bank settlement capability,
all securities market transactions are conducted through a single bank. Centralizing all
settlement of securities trading in this manner concentrates risk in the event of failure of the
settlement bank. In addition, the Central Bank is not connected to the SWIFT international
payments network, forcing all foreign exchange settlements to be effected via fax through one
commercial bank in Miami.
Based on the findings of a preliminary study by the Bank, the project would help design a
strategy for modernizing the payment systems through: reducing the barriers to automation of
check processing; reducing the check clearing cycle; providing same-day settlement capability;
automation of clearinghouse settlement operations; and providing Automated Clearinghouse
(ACH) capability. Under the component activities, the role of the Central Bank would be
limited primarily to that of regulator and supervisor of the payment system, with responsibility
for settlement of most transactions remaining with the commercial banks. Although the
procedures for large value inter-bank transfers through the Central Bank would be
modernized, creation of an automated system is unlikely in the short term due to the relatively
large fixed cost with respect to the quantity of transfers undertaken. The project would
support further research into the issues addressed above and would support development of
an action plan for implementation of an appropriate regulatory and legal framework for the
payment system.
(i;)   Technological CaDabilities (US$ 3.2 million, 16.0 % of Droject costs)
19.   Evidence from recent studies of the private sector in El Salvador (including the PSA)
indicates that enterprises in El Salvador face difficulties in reaching international standards of
quality and technical sophistication. In general, a low level of awareness prevails among firms
regarding the importance of quality and the management of technology and quality at the plant
level. A variety of reasons have been offered to explain this situation, including lack of



13
competitive pressure, skills and training constraints (in part arising from reductions in education
and training during the civil war), and technology-related infrastructure constraints (arising from
the underdeveloped nature of: metrology, standards, testing, and quality control institutions;
technological information centers and extension services; and research and development
institutions linked with the potential users of the knowledge they create).
20.   Although the Government has made significant progress in eliminating the barriers which
have insulated Salvadoran firms from competitive pressure and plans to push further (competition
law and consumer protection, para. 13), much more needs to be done to develop a culture of
quality among firms, strengthen technology-related infrastructure and upgrade the skills of the
labor force. The task is especially important for Salvadoran enterprises operating in a global
environment where putting knowledge to productive use is critical. The two public institutions
concerned with technological development and technical training are CONACYT and
INSAFORP. Both institutions are recently created and need to sharpen their focus, ensure that
their activities are driven by the needs of the private sector, strengthen their roles as coordinators
and catalysts for the provision of services by private firms and non-profit organizations, and rid
themselves of baggage inherited from their predecessor institutions (e.g., labor obligations).
21.   This component would assist in the development of the public-private institutional
framework supporting technology development, diffusion, and training, via three activities: the
design of a national plan to increase quality and productivity, the strengthening of science and
technology policy and institutions, and the preparation of a strategic plan to implement a national
system for technical training. This activity would use as a basis both existing studies (e.g., science
and technology studies prepared by FUSADES and CONACYT) and two others to be prepared
under Japanese Grant Facility financing: (i) a series of practically-oriented studies of the factors
affecting the diffusion of new knowledge and technologies and their utilization in the productive
sectors; and (ii) a firm survey to understand how enterprises currently train their staff, what
sources of training they use (internal and external), their interest in using other forms of training
delivery, and their state of technological capabilities.
Quality and Productivity Program. There is a beginning awareness among enterprise
managers within El Salvador that a greater focus on quality and productivity is required. The
project would support a study to design a "Salvadoran Quality and Productivity Program" to
promote a greater focus on total quality management across enterprises. The Program would
encompass public policies, institutional structure and responsibilities, training programs, and
promotional efforts. The specific needs of small- and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs) would
be addressed. The design of the program would follow from a country-specific diagnosis of
the incentives and constraints faced by firms in attaining international quality levels; use
lessons from other countries who have implemented quality and productivity programs; and
recommend a strategy and detailed action plan to implement the program. The Ministry of
Economy is the entity responsible for implementing these activities.
First, the study would begin with an evaluation of quality and productivity indicators of
domestically-produced goods and services vis-a-vis those of the country's competitors in
international markets (such as rejection and rework rates, average delivery time, inventory



14
rotations, machine downtime, R&D expenditures, training, and hierarchical levels), in order to
establish both a baseline (where El Salvador is starting from relative to international best
practice) and a benchmark (what El Salvador will strive to attain in a specified time frame).
Second, the study would analyze the reasons for departures from international quality
standards and market expectations. This diagnosis would include: an evaluation of the
incentives faced by firms to improve quality, utilize new technologies, and innovate, and the
role of the policy environment in determining these incentives; and an evaluation of factors
constraining the ability of firms to reach international standards (e.g., factor market
conditions, physical infrastructure, technology-related infrastructure, labor skills).
Third, the study would evaluate, and propose a strategy for strengthening: the institutional
framework supporting the diffusion of quality standards (metrology, standards, testing, and
quality laboratories; technology extension services; public and private training institutions;
certification and accreditation institutions, including for ISO-9000 and the forthcoming
environment-focused IS0-14000; producers' associations; etc.); the channels of diffusion of
quality standards to and among firms; and the division of responsibilities between the public
and private sectors, with clear justifications for the public sector's future role.
Fourth, the study would propose a strategy for private sector-led training in quality
management programs: evaluate the needs for firm-level training in total quality management,
for all levels of management and employees; determine appropriate institutional
responsibilities and alliances for training programs; and design a program of training, with
targets and timing, to disseminate total quality management programs in the private sector.
Fifth, the study would propose a strategy and program to raise awareness of the importance of
quality management and the achievement of international standards among firms, as well as a
marketing plan for the Program, in order to stimulate firms to adopt quality management
techniques, train their employees, and ultimately change their corporate culture.
Sixth, the study would assess the availability of financing for firm-led quality management
programs and propose a strategy for financing the proposed Program, with a special focus on
SMEs.
Finally, the study would design and test a pilot training program of "quality multipliers" on a
matching grant basis (individuals who go back to enterprises to spread the new quality
management language).
* Science and Technology Policy and Institutional Development. The Conisejo Nacional de
Cienciay Tecnologia (CONACYT), created by Decree 287 in 1992, operates under the
Ministry of Economy. The general objective of CONACYT is to formulate and direct
national policy regarding scientific and technological development. More specifically,
CONACYT coordinates and directs metrology, standards, testing, and quality (MSTQ)
activities, guides public investments in science and technology, coordinates external technical
assistance for science and technology, and promotes the diffusion of technology. Currently,



15
CONACYT's operations are spread thinly across a diverse set of planned programs and are
supported by a very modest fiscal budgetary allocation. In the past, it has given too little
attention to the diffusion of information relevant to the productive sector, and its coordination
with other science and technology-related institutions (the Centro Nacional de Tecnologia
Agropecuariay Forestal (CENTA), the Ministerio de Agriculturay Ganaderia, the
Universidad de El Salvador) has been insufficient.
CONACYT is currently developing a program of institutional strengthening supported by the
Central American Bank for Economic Integration (BCIE), which is focused on the non-
agricultural sectors of industry. The project would complement these activities by supporting
the preparation of a diagnostic study of priorities for science and technology policy and
institutions for agriculture and agro-industry. This study would focus on the role of
CONACYT as a coordinator of decentralized and private sector-led technological
development (including coordination of activities with CENTA and other agencies), and
develop an action plan for implementation of the strategy. Based on the BCIE program and
on the results of a diagnostic preparatory study financed by the Japanese Grant facility, the
project also would strengthen local capacity in product quality certification services, as well as
strengthening the capacity of laboratories that provide these services.
Strategic Plan for Technical Training. The Instituto Salvadoreno de Formaci6n Profesional
(INSAFORP) was created by Decree 554 of July 1993, replacing a similar training agency in
the Ministry of Labor (the Centro de Formaci6n Profesionaf). Decree 544 gave INSAFORP
financial as well as administrative autonomy: funding for INSAFORP is provided by an
earmarked 1 percent payroll tax that is channeled directly to INSAFORP. The private sector
contributions are to be phased in over five years (0.2 percent in 1994, 0.4 percent in 1995, 0.6
percent in 1996, 0.8 percent in 1997, and 1.0 percent in 1998).
Since its creation, INSAFORP has made significant efforts to review and redefine its role, in
order to ensure that their activities are oriented under efficiency criteria and driven by the
needs of the private sector. Even though INSAFORP is authorized to provide training
directly, as well as to coordinate and regulate training provided by other institutions and by
firms themselves, INSAFORP's directorate has delirnited the institution's mandate by
adopting a role of coordination, regulation, and certification, leaving the direct provision of
training services to collaborating institutions. Also, consistent with this view, INSAFORP has
held consultations with the private sector, resulting in the proposal of revisions to the payroll-
tax obligation on firms which are now being analyzed at the legislative chamber.
Currently, international organizations such as the International Labor Organization (ILO),
GTZ and the European Union are conduction focused activities with INSAFORP to support
institutional development needs. Nevertheless, much work is still required to sharpen
INSAFORP's role within the national training system and enhance its operational capacity.
The technical assistance provided by the Bank under this Project would support the design of
a demand-driven national scheme for technical-training provision through a dual approach:



16
(i) The design of a strategic program for INSAFORP and the development of an action plan
for its implementation. The report would use as starting point the studies and surveys made
under the Japanese Grant Facility referred to above, to diagnose and identify current and
future needs for technical training; to assess the human, physical and financial capacity of
existing training institutions to identify potential INSAFORP's collaborating institutions; and
to provide the basis for strengthening the system according to the competitiveness challenges
firms will face under the new business environment of the Salvadoran economy.
The strategic program must include the revision of current regulations and institutional
arrangements for INSAFORP's activities; internal organization and structure; the clear
delimitation of target groups (employees of contributing firms/employees of non-contributing
firms/government/unemployed); assessment and proposal of alternative financing mechanisms;
establishment of criteria and mechanisms for identifying private sector needs and ensuring an
adequate matching with the supply of training services, conditions for certification; the
responsibilities and involvement of each of the parties involved in the training system (i.e.
INSAFORP, training institutions, and the private and labor sectors); and a strategy for
marketing and improving the credibility of INSAFORP's activities within the national training
system.
(ii) Exposure to international experiences and lessons and the skills upgrading of the staff
involved in the national training system to enhance the operational knowledge and executing
capacity of the system. The project would finance the hiring foreign trainers, consultants, and
experts, as well as study tours abroad. It would also include the attendance to and
participation in international forums and symposiums, short courses and twinning
(apprenticeship) groups, and study tours to visit and assess the experience of other training-
system's institutions and coordinators in other countries.
(iii)   Public Information ($ 5.0 million, 25.0 % of iro*ect costs)
22.   The success of the Government's competitiveness enhancement efforts will depend in part
on the understanding and support of key domestic constituencies and the local public at large.
The high rankings that both political and policy uncertainty received in the PSA survey as
obstacles to enterprise operation and growth underscores the need for the Govermment both to
better articulate and communicate its policies to its constituencies and to better listen and be
responsive to the broad public's concems. The Government has made an explicit commitment to
ensure the participation of all sectors of society in the development of the current economic
model, including explicit communications to the broad public of the benefits of globalization. A
particular area of concem is the need for improved cooperation between business leaders and
workers, to ensure that managers and workers do not view themselves as adversaries but rather
allies in the pursuit of increased productivity. To build consensus for activities of the other two
components, financing already has been included for activity-specific study tours, twinning
arrangements and working groups where appropriate. In addition, to help build broader support
for desirable economic and social changes, this component addresses broader cross-cutting
information dissemination and coordination issues, and includes the following activities:



17
* Public information program. The main objectives of this program include: educating the
public about the rationale for the most critical economic and social reforms for
competitiveness, the impact those reforms will have on their families and lives, and the
specifics of individual reform initiatives; enhancing the capacity of the Government to gather
and disseminate accurate information to the media and the general public; improving the
overall effectiveness of Government public affairs officials and journalists specializing in
coverage of the economic and social reform process; and providing policymakers with
feedback on reform initiatives from key constituencies in order to better inform and refine the
policymaking process. This program would operate as an umbrella activity to assist in
building consensus around each of the other activities of the project, in addition to assisting in
educating the public about the importance of other key economic and social reforms for
competitiveness.
The project would assist in building institutional capacity in this area through: developing and
helping to implement a two-way government information strategy, both disseminating
information and receiving information from the broad public on economic reform initiatives;
providing day-to-day support for intensified efforts to actively explain government reform
initiatives to the public and to key constituencies; helping to organize an institutional
framework for gathering and disseminating information to the media and general public; and
promoting a two-way outreach to key constituencies and coalitions (including through
seminars, public awareness advertising, and distribution of educational materials). The
consultants and local team implementing this activity would coordinate with the
Implementation Units responsible for the implementation of each of the other project
activities, to help build support for these activities and inform the public about their links with
the country's long-run competitiveness. As part of this effort, the project would finance the
production and dissemination of a series of short and focused Technical Notes (or
"information briefs", that summarize lessons of international experience and highlight their
relevance for El Salvador) --as well as other appropriate information dissemination
mechanisms as needed as project implementation proceeds-- to provide a focal point for
implementation (on specific topics of concern including competition law, consumer
protection, legal registries, financial markets development, and technology and training).
These Notes would be proposed by the implementing agencies in consultation with the public
information team, be produced and disseminated in cooperation with private sector groups,
and use materials and reviews from the Bank. MICDES is the entity responsible for
implementing these activities.
* Study tours and working groups. Rigorously structured and focused study tours can be an
extremely useful mechanism to help develop a shared vision of a country's future. The project
would help build a consensus view of desirable strategies by offering the opportunity to
groups composed of the main concerned constituencies to go on such study tours.
Participants typically would be selected from the legislative assembly, the private sector, the
labor movement, the academic community, the media, and the Government. The first study
tour would focus on competitive strategies adopted by Malaysia, Singapore and Hong Kong.
The other tours likely would focus on: (i) agricultural development; (ii) financial sector
development; and (iii) improving labor-business relations.



18
To augment this process, six sector working groups are to be established: one for the
legislative assembly and political parties; for the private sector; for the labor sector; for the
academic community; for the media; and for the general public. These working groups would
be a forum to discuss and disseminate findings, as well as periodically monitor and evaluate
the overall impact of the project in general terms. To assist in monitoring the ongoing impact
of the project, a small enterprise-level survey will be administered in the third year, including
subjective responses such as changes in perceptions as a result of project activities. This
survey would update baseline data from an initial survey undertaken as part of preparatory
activities under Japan Grant financing. The Ministry of Economy is the entity responsible for
implementing these activities.



19
SECTION B: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
1.    PROJECT ORGANIZATION
23.   The project would be implemented under a three-tiered administrative structure: a high-
level council for policy direction and promotion; a coordinating unit led by MICDES to oversee
project execution and link project activities with the direction of the high-level council; and a set
of implementing agencies that would be responsible for the day-to-day implementation of
individual project components. The second and third tiers would be the critical levels to ensure
timely and effective implementation. The private sector would be directly represented in the first
two tiers and informally represented as appropriate at the third tier, working in partnership with
the public sector to achieve the project's objectives, ensuring continuous private sector input, and
building consensus with its constituencies.
24.   Promotion. As the first tier, a National Council for Competitiveness (Consejo Nacional
de la Competitividad), a joint private-public entity consisting of representatives from leading
private sector organizations and relevant Government agencies has been established to enhance
support for the project. The Council is headed by the Minister of Economy (project "champion"),
as representative of the principal Government ministry directly responsible for relations with the
private sector, and is composed of principal "owners" and "clients" of the project: this first-tier
structure is composed of representatives from the public sector (including the Ministers of
Economy, MICDES, Finance, Justice and the Central Bank President) and representatives from
the business sector (including heads of ANEP, ASI, CCI, COEXPORT and FUSADES). It
would serve as a high-level entity to promote the project's objectives and activities, set overall
guidelines for project execution, and evaluate reform proposals to enhance private sector
competitiveness. The Council should meet at least three times a year, and more frequently if
necessary.
25.   Coordination. A small, permanent service-oriented Coordination Unit (the second tier)
would be responsible to ensure timely and effective implementation of the project across all
activities. It would include a full-time Project Coordinator from MICDES, and a Private Sector
Coordinator available on a daily basis and paid for by the project. The Project Coordinator from
MICDES would oversee project execution, and ensure that all activities are properly sequenced
and technically well implemented; this Project Coordinator would receive additional support for
coordination work as needed from other officials within MICDES, and would work closely with
subcomponent implementation Leaders ("Jefes de Ejecuci6n ", see below). The Private Sector
Coordinator would represent private sector interests, ensure that private sector concerns are
reflected during implementation (including via detailed comments on all final terms of reference
and throughout implementation of activities), communicate necessary feedback to the Council,
and work closely with the representatives of individual private sector organizations (ANEP, ASI,
CCI, COEXPORT and FUSADES) assisting in implementation of specific project components.
In addition to working closely with the Private Sector Coordinator (on a daily basis) and the
representatives of individual private sector organizations (through monthly meetings or more
frequently if necessary), the Project Coordinator would also interact periodically with labor
representatives, in particular to ensure their input into the labor training component.



20
26.   Implementation. The Coordination Unit would be charged with overall support of
implementation of the project. An experienced team within MICDES and reporting to the
Coordination Unit would act as Financial Agent for the project, executing all procurement and
disbursement under the project and maintaining all financial records. During the start-up phase of
the project, the Coordination Unit would be supported by qualified international or local
consultants as needed. An agent acceptable to the Bank would be designated by the Government
to undertake all contracting for international consultants under the project. For each project
subcomponent, a Working Team (Equipo de Trabajo) would be created, with a Leader (Jefe de
Ejecuci6n) responsible for implementation. Each Leader would be a senior individual within the
respective Government institution (namely the Ministries of the Economy and Justice, MICDES,
the Central Bank, CONACYT and INSAFORP), and would be supported by other officials in the
Working Team. Each Working Team would be charged with developing specific terms of
reference for hiring of consultants and technical specifications for purchase of equipment, with
support from the Coordination Unit. The Working Teams would work in close contact with the
Coordination Unit, with as many meetings during the life of the project as necessary to ensure
timely and well-executed implementation.
27.   The project is anticipated to be implemented over the course of roughly three years.
Project completion is scheduled for December 1998 and the project closing date would be June
30, 1999.
H.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
28.   Estimated project costs, described in Schedule A (total cost including Bank and
Government financing of US$ 20.00 million) are as follows: the Business Environment
component (US$ 10.54 million) including support to the Ministry of the Economy, Ministry of
Justice, MICDES, and the Central Bank; the Technological Capabilities component (US$ 3.17
million) including support to the Ministry of Economy, CONACYT and INSAFORP; and the
Public Information component (US$ 5.00 million) with support to the Ministry of Economy and
WCDES. An additional US$ 0.60 million in Bank and Government financing would support the
activities of the Coordination Unit in MICDES and the Implementation Units in each of the
ministries. US$ 0.69 million would be allocated for physical and price contingencies in the
implementation of the project. The Bank would provide US$ 16.0 million, four-fifths of the total
financing, and the Government the remaining US$ 4.0 million.
29.   The Republic of El Salvador is eligible for the single currency loan and anticipates
borrowing US$116 million from IBRD on a single currency loan basis during FY96 including
US$ 16.0 million for this project. The loan would be a U.S. dollar single currency loan for 17
years, including 5 years of grace, at the IBRD's standard LIBOR-based rate for such loans.
30.   Financial Benefits. The Republic of El Salvador has selected U.S. dollar-based single
currency loan terms in order to improve its overall liability management and reduce its risks. It
considers the U.S. dollar to be an appropriate currency for its debt management strategy, and



21
prefers the standard country repayment terms for LIBOR-based single currency loans compared
to the shorter final maturity for fixed-rate currency loans.
31.   Procurement. Two types of procurement would be undertaken through the Loan: (i)
consultant services for each of the participating institutions; and (ii) goods, primarily computer
hardware and software and communications equipment. Selection and appointment of consultants
for studies, technical assistance, and support of project execution would be carried out in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
The World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981). Procurement of goods would follow the
Bank Guidelines for Procurement (1995). To the extent feasible and practicable, the procurement
of goods would be done by grouping the various items in bid packages estimated to cost US$
100,000 equivalent or more. Packages in this category would be required to follow Limited
International Bidding (LLB) procedures using the Bank Standard Bidding Documents. LIB
procedures are justified given the small number of providers with after-delivery service in El
Salvador. In the case of procurement of complex information and communication systems, the
Bank would recommend a two-stage bidding process which includes a stage for technical
qualification prior to economic evaluation. National and international shopping procedures in
accordance with paragraph 3.5 of Bank procurement guidelines would be used for purchases of
goods estimated to cost respectively, less than US$ 50,000 per contract up to an aggregate
amount of US$ 400,000 (for national shopping), and less than US$ 100,000 per contract up to an
aggregate of US$ 500,000 (for international shopping).
32.   Bank review of procurement procedures would be as follows: (i) for consulting services,
the Bank would conduct prior review for all contracts of US$ 50,000 or more equivalent for
individuals and US$ 100,000 or more equivalent for firms; and (ii) for procurement of goods the
Bank would review ex ante documentation pertaining to each LIB undertaken; (iii) all other
procurement documentation is subject to ex post review. This review process would result in a
prior review of approximately 90% of all Bank-financed contracts for goods.
33.   Disbursements. Proceeds of the proposed Loan would finance: (i) 100% of the cost of
foreign goods, consulting services, training and technical assistance; and (ii) 87% of the cost of
local goods. To facilitate disbursement under the loan, a Special Account would be established in
the Central Bank, at the discretion of the Government, with an authorized allocation of US$ 1.5
million equivalent, representing the average amount equivalent to four months of eligible
expenditures that are expected to be paid from the account. Separate accounts of all expenditures
financed by the Project would be maintained by the MICDES. Withdrawal applications would be
fully documented, except for contracts smaller than the following specified levels: US$ 100,000
for goods; US$ 50,000 for individual consultants; and US$ 100,000 for consulting firms. In the
case of contracts below these specified levels, the MICDES would prepare certified Statements of
Expenditure (SOE) to be used as the basis for disbursement. Supporting documentation for SOEs
would be retained by MICDES and made available for examination by Bank staff during
supervision missions.



22
34.   Retroactive financing of up to US$ 1.6 million equivalent would be provided for eligible
expenditures incurred after June 1, 1995 (approximately 10% of the total loan), to fund initial
studies and project start-up activities.
mL!. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
35.   Supervision. The Bank would support the implementation of the project through frequent
and regular supervision missions and at other times as requested by the Government, with a total
supervision input in the first year of at least 35 staff weeks. Bank supervision resources may
exceed this level given the pilot nature of several activities and the intention to link closely
otherwise free-standing analytic work with project implementation. Bank supervision resources
would include inputs from the Regional (LAC) and Central (FPD) Vice-Presidencies, External
Affairs Department, Economic Development Institute (EDI), and Foreign Investment Advisory
Services (FIAS, IFC), with an expected contribution by FPD in the business environment and
technological capabilities components, by External Affairs and EDI in the Public Information
component, and by FIAS in the investment deregulation and facilitation activities. A semi-annual
review of project implementation would be conducted jointly by the Government and the Bank
during September and March of each year and would evaluate project performance against the
matrix of key project activities and implementation targets (see below). Attachment III provides
greater detail regarding estimated resources required for supervision.
36.   Monitoring Indicators. To facilitate monitoring and supervision, the project includes both
imnplementation and impact indicators. Project implementation indicators are defined as
identifiable project outputs, that is, monitorable targets linked to the broader Government
objectives to help the Government achieve its goals. For example, linked to the objective of
increasing domestic competition are the following specific expected project outputs: by April
1996, draft competition legislation should be finalized and presented to Congress; by June 1997
the competition office should be operational; and by December 1997, draft bankruptcy legislation
should be finalized and presented to Congress (a somewhat less urgent commitment). As another
example, linked to the objective of increasing competitiveness by modernizing the financial system
are the following specific project outputs: formulation of implementation plan in the area of
liquidity support by October 1996, deposit insurance by January 1997, and definition of policy for
Lender of Last Resort by March 1997; and an implementation plan in the area of
internationalization of financial services provision by June 1998. The full list of project
implementation indicators is provided in the Project Implementation Plan matrix, Attachment II.
37.   The Government also has included project impact indicators as part of this project, to help
monitor the impact of project activities on the economy; an initial list of project impact indicators
is provided in Attachment H. A revised list of quantitative impact indicators will be included in
the final Project Implementation Plan and monitored as appropriate, including for instance
changes in the number of days for approval of new investments resulting from the effectiveness of
ONI. Since it is difficult to establish quantitative impact indicators for many activities and to link
changes in those indicators to changes due to the project, the project also will include an
enterprise-level survey administered during the third year designed to update baseline data,
including subjective responses such as changes in perceptions as a result of project activities. An



23
initial enterprise-level survey, currently under preparation and financed under the Japan Grant
facility, will provide baseline data for these subjective responses. Baseline data for the
quantitative indicators will be compiled from existing data sources.
38.   Accounts and Audits. The Coordination Unit (MICDES), with the support of the
Implementation Unit for each sub-component, would maintain adequate records of all financial
transactions made under the project. The records would form the basis for generating monthly
financial statements to inform the Project Coordinator. The Project Coordinator would prepare
and forward to the Bank semi-annual reports on the status of implementation to be discussed
during the corresponding semi-annual reviews.
39.   The Central Bank, which would be the depository for funds in the Special Account, would
provide the Coordination Unit with a monthly statement reflecting the deposits to and
withdrawals from the Special Account and any related sub-accounts. The Coordination Unit
would forward each monthly statement to the Bank in conjunction with their respective monthly
Withdrawal Applications soliciting funds from the Loan Account to replenish the Special
Account. The Coordination Unit would keep separate records for all financial transactions
affecting the Special Account and/or related sub-accounts.
40.   At the end of each Fiscal Year, the Coordination Unit would prepare annual Project
Financial Statements covering ali project activities. The annual Project Financial Statements
would be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing. The audit reports would include separate
opinions concerning: (i) the eligibility of transactions in the Special Account during the year, and
on the closing balance of this account; (ii) the eligibility of expenditures claimed under the
Statement of Expenditure (SOE) disbursement procedure; and (iii) a note highlighting any special
issues relating to project execution. In instances where issues were highlighted for resolution, the
Coordination Unit in conjunction with the relevant Implementation Unit would propose
recommended actions. The Coordination Unit would submit the audit reports to the Bank within
six months of the close of each fiscal year.
41.   Within six months of project completion, the Coordination Unit and all Implementing
Units would collaborate with the Bank in producing an Implementation Completion Report to
assess project effectiveness and its contribution to sustainable development activities.






Attachment I
EL SALVADOR
COMPETITIVENESS ENHANCEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS
(US$ Thousands Equivalent)
Project Costs by Activity  Consultants, training, seminars       Equipment|        Operating|           Total
I           Locale          ForeignF    Foreign/Local       Expenses
A. The Business Environment
1. Domestic competition             200              930               160              310            1,600
a. Competition Policy                50              330                80               90              550
b. Consumer protection               50              200                80               90              420
c. Enterprise restructuring         100              400                 0              130              630
2. Infrastructure services          500             1,500                0              500            2,500
3. Regulation/bureaucracy reduction
a. Inv./trade dereg.                 90               160               90              100              440
b. Inv./trade facilitation          150              740               760              380            2,030
c. Legal registries                 350              780             1,320              605            3,055
4. Financial sector                  40              700                 0              170              910
B. Technological Capabilities
a. Total Quality                    250             1,000                0              290            1,540
b. SciencelTechnology inst          200              500                 0              175              875
c. Technical training                90              500                 0              170              760
C. Public Information
1. Public Awareness                 500            2,500                 0              700            3,700
2. Public-private coop.             100              900                 0              300            1,300
Implementation Unit                 350                 0                0              250              600
Physical and Price Contingencies                      300              390                 0             690
Total                             2,820            10,510            2,720            3,950           20,000



Attachment II
Page 1 of 5
EL SALVADOR COMPETITIVENESS ENHANCEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN - ACTIVITIES MATRIX
:....B.sectves                  Prjet  Activities           Expected Output               Institutional           aTigets and Tis ing
1. Increase domestic       a. Competition law and     i. Draft legislation submitted   Ministry of Economy   i. Consultant hired Dec. 95;
competition                enforcement                 to Congress                                            draft legislation to Congress
by April 1996; design of
ii. Establishment of                                  implementation unit
implementation office and                            completed by Dec. 1996
enforcement procedures                               ii. Implementation unit
operational by June 1997,
_____ _____ _____ _____ with  continuing  training
b. Consumer protection law   i. Strengthening of consumer  Ministry of Economy    i. Study to improve
and enforcement            protection enforcement                                 enforcement completed by
July 1996; implementation
ii. Study of possible further                        fully in line with accepted
changes to existing law                              recommend. by Dec. 1997
ii. Study of revisions to law
......._____..........._    ____..__....___.......__   com pleted   by   June1998
c. Modernization of       i. Draft bankruptcy          Ministry of Justice       i. Consultant hired early
framework for enterprise   legislation submitted to                               1997; study completed by
restructuring              Congress; training and public                          June 97; draft legislation
awareness activities,                                 finalized by Dec. 1997;
training activities underway
ii. Study of alternative                         .    by June 1998
dispute resolution (ADR)                              ii. Study to identify barriers
mechanisms; pilot phase,                             to out-of--court workouts
include, training and public                         completed by June 1997;
awareness for legal and                              training activities to begin by
corporate community;                                  Sept. 1997; pilot phase to
revised ADR design.                                  begin by Jan.1998; final
_______________________                  ~~~~design  by  Sept.1998.
2. Improve provision of    a. Coordination of regulatory  i. Creation of coordination    MICDES              i. Coordination unit begin
infrastructure services critical  framework design for  unit; design of action plans                         operations Aug.1995; design
for competitiveness        telecommnunications and     and regulatory frameworks                             of action plans/ regulatory
power; study of potential to   for telecom and power                              frameworks for telecom and
expand similar approach to   ii. Expansion study for other                        power by Dec. 1996.
other services,            services.                                             ii. Study to explore options



Attachment II
Page 2 of 5
Objectives               Project Activities        ..Expected Output                                           Targets and Tinting
(by Sub-Component)                                            ... ::     .Respmonibilities                          (EnamouL indicutom :
for expansion of similar
approach to other services
completed by Dec. 1998.
3. Facilitate private-sector led  a. Trade and investment  i. Sector-specific studies of    Ministry of Economy    i. Consultants hired by Sept.
trade and investment         deregulationr removal of    impediments to trade and                                  1997; study completed by
impediments to trade and    commerce and design of                                    Dec. 1997; finalization of
commerce; preparation of a    action plans for their removal                           reform program by Dec. 1998
simplified investment law,                                                            ii. Consultants hired by Sept.
including establishment of a   ii. Draft investment law                               1996; draft investment law by
one-stop window             iii. Re-design and                                        Dec. 1996
strengthening of one-stop                                iii. ONI system fully
window (ONI)                                             operating by June 1998
b. Trade and investment      i. Design and                Ministry of Economy         i. Consultants hired by
facilitation: provision of trade  implementation of Trade                             January 1996; completion of
information and              Point system                                             feasibility studies by June
revitalization of investment                                                          1996; fully operational by
and export promotion         ii. Design of investment                                 June 1997.
promotion strategy, and                                  ii/ iii. Consultants for
public-private agency                                    investment and export hired
iii. Design of export                                    by June 1996; strategic
promotion strategy, and                                  recommend. by October 1996;
public-private agency                                    operational by June 1997.
c. Improvement of legal      i. Design of legal framework   Ministry of Justice        i. Consultant hired by Mar.
framework and institutional   and implementation of                                   96; draft legal reforms for
strengthening of legal      movable assets registry                                   secured transactions by Sept.
registries                                                                            97; full operations by Dec. 98.
ii. Modernization of                                     ii. Consultant hired by Mar.
commercial registry                                      1996; draft commercial law
changes to Congress Sept. 96;
iii. Legal review and                                    design of info.systems by
institutional upgrading of                               Sept.97; full oper. Mar. 98.
intellectual property                                    iii. Design of info.systems for
protection                                               intell.prop. registry by Oct.
______________________  ______________________                    96% ; fully  operational  Aug.98
4. Increase competitiveness    a Examination of legal and   i. Assessment of consistency   Central Bank            First consultant hired by
by modernizing the financial  regulatory changes for     of legal/regulatory treatment                             March 96; financial groups
system                       internationalization of     of financial services; action                             law to Congress by Jan.97;
financial services provision    plan to integrate Salvadoran                          consistency study by June 97;
money and governrment                                    integration action plan by
securities markets; and                                  June 1998.
design new law governing



Attachment II
Page 3 of 5
; -,..........                                                -~... f!-  "; ................... -S... . ... ......                       .     ...     ..;
ObjEctive. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~innca groups.ona
(by   Sub.Componen. ...... . . ..p....               ....t................. ........
b. Modernization of           i. Legal provisions for         Central Bank                  First consultant hired by May
provisions for bank failur  liquidation of financial96; liquidation study by
resolution; dposit insurane;  entities; uidelines forOctober 1996; deposit
and Lender of Last Resort     resolving failed banks;                                       insurance study by JanL1997;
(LLR) facility                creation of deposit insurance                                 and LLR study by March
system; and definition of                                    1997.
policy for LLR and liquidity
provision functions of
_________ _________    Central  Bank_                                                   _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _
c. Modernization of payment  i. Development of legal and    Central Bank                    Consultant hired by March
system to reduce transactions   regulatory reforms for check                                1997; completion of study by
costs and increase             dearing, large value transfers                               August 1997; formulation of
international integration     of funds, and custody,                                        imnplementation plan by
dlearing, and settlement of                                   April 1998.
______ _____ ______ _____ securities  trades._          _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _
1. Increase technology-based   a. Design of 'Salvadorean      i. Create system for           Ministry of Economy           Consultant hired by March
productivity                   Program for Quality and       certification and training in                                 1996; completion of
Productivity" to promote      firm-level quality                                            diagnostic study by
adoption of international      management programs                                          September 1996;
quality standards by private   (include. ISO-9000)                                          development of final action
enterprises                   ___________ ____________plan by December 1998
b. Strengthen the national    i. Strengthen local capacity in  Ministry of Economy/          i. Consultant for product
science and technology        product quality certification    CONACYT                      certification hired by March
institutions                  iu. Undertake study of                                        1997; pilot project to be
technology policy for                                        completed by Dec. 1997.
agriculture and agro-                                        ii. Policy consultant hired by
industrial sectors                                           March 1998; study completed
___________________by November 1998.
c. Design of national scheme   i. Development of strategic    INSAFORP                      TORs finalized for strategic
for demand-driven technical   plans for provision and                                       study/action plan by May 96
training                      regulation of in-service and                                  (based on prior study tours);
unemployment technical                                       action plan completed by
training programs, followed                                  December 1996.
by design of action plan for
implementation of strategy,
including necessary legal and
____ ___ ____ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ regulatory   reform s



Attachment II
Page 4 of 5
C. Public Information                                                                                                   -          ::
1. Improve public awareness  a. Development of public    i. Design of strategy;  MICDES                     Consultant hired by Jan.
of objectives and instruments  opinion research,      implementation of                                     1996; program activities
of Government's economic   informational programs and   recommendations (learning-                          through December 1996 at
program and its links to   media relations.           by-doing)                                             intensive level, followed by
economic competitiveness                                                                                    periodic consultations.
2. Improve cooperation     a. Study tours abroad to  i. Public-private consultative  Ministry of Economy    Initiation of seminars in
between public and private    develop a shared vision of    group(s) and seminars                           January 1996 and continuing
sectors on goals and policies  the economy's future                                                         through Dec. 1998; design
to enhance competitiveness                                                                                  and implementation of
b Design and                                                                     consultative groups by March
implementation of a                                                              1996
monitoring mechanism
which periodically evaluates
the overall impact of the
project
Attach2.DOC
September 8,1995



Attachment II
Page 5 of 5
EL SALVADOR COMPETITIVENESS ENHANCEMENT TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN -- IMPACT INDICATORS
Project Activities                      Quantitative Indicator
A. I.a. Competition law and enforcement    no. of cases presented vs. no. of cases
resolved
ability to fulfill case adjudication within
timetable established by law
A. 1 .b. Consumer protection law and    no. of complaints per year vs. no. of
enforcement                             complaints resolved
no. of public education forums
A.3.a. Trade and investment deregulation    no. of days for approval of new investments
(ONI)
A.3.b. Trade and investment facilitation  no. of users of system; no of
(Trade Point)                     consultations/inquiries (if monitorable)
A.3.c. Legal registries -- commercial   no. of requests to register enterprises vs.
registry                          no. of permissions granted, per quarter
avg. time between request date and granting
of license
A.3.c. -- movable assets registry       no. of assets registered, per year
no. of secured credits granted, per year
A.3.c. -- intellectual property registry  avg time to complete intellectual property
registry process
no. of patent requests and no. of patents
granted, per year
avg. time to resolve patent disputes
Note: Since it is difficult to establish quantitative impact indicators for many activities and
to link changes in those indicators to changes due to the project, the project also will
include an enterprise-level survey administered during the third year designed to update
baseline data, including subjective responses such as changes in perceptions as a result of
project activities. An initial enterprise-level survey, currently under preparation and
financed under the Japan Grant facility, will provide baseline data for these subjective
responses. Baseline data for the above quantitative indicators will be compiled from
existing data sources.



Attachment III
EL SALVADOR
COMPETITIVENESS ENHANCEMENT TA PROJECT
Proiect Supervision Plan
Approx.  Key Activities                                         Expected Skill                   Staff
Dates                                                           Requirements                     Weeks
11/95     Project Effectiveness Mission/Desk Review: (i)       PSD specialist (2)                  12
Conditions for project effectiveness - final Project  Telecoms regulation specialist
Implementation Plan and detailed costing;            Technology policy specialist
(ii) Project Launch Workshop: procurement, financial   Public affairs specialist
and accounting systems/procedures;
(iii) Status of Project Coordination Unit;
(iv) Progress in competition policy, consumer
protection, telecoms regulatory reform; competitiveness
study tour, and public awareness coordination.
3/96      Semi-annual Review: (i) progress in export promotion,  PSD specialist (2)                 15
investment promotion, secured transactions,          Technology policy specialist
commercial registry study, total quality management   Investment promotion specialist
study, Tradepoint implementation, training study,    Export promotion specialist
financial groups law, bank failure resolution procedures  Legal specialist
and (ii) other ongoing issues of project implementation.  Financial sector specialist
6/96      Review (i) progress in intellectual property, deposit  PSD specialist                     8
insurance, and investment regulation and (ii) other  Intellectual property specialist
ongoing issues of project implementation.            Financial sector specialist
Investment regulation specialist
9/96      Semi-annual Review: (i) results of first year         PSD specialist (2)                  12
independent audit; (ii) progress in power sector     Legal specialist
regulatory reform, identifying impediments to trade and  Power sector regulatory
commerce; and (iii) other ongoing issues of project  specialist
implementation.                                      Technology policy specialist
Investinent regulation specialist
Financial specialist
3/97      Semi-annual Review: (i) progress on bankruptcy and    PSD specialist (2)                  13
alternative dispute resolution studies, transport/customs   Legal specialist
services regulatory framework, investment promotion,    Transport services regulatory
secured transactions law, operations of commercial   specialist
registry, LLR policies, payment system study, quality  Technology policy specialist
certification pilot project, study tours; and (ii) other  Payment systems specialist
ongoing issues of project implementation.            Financial sector specialist
9/97      Semi-annual Review: (i) results of second year        PSD specialist                      10
independent audit; (ii) progress in implementation of    Legal specialist
ON]; and (iii) other ongoing issues of project        Regulatory specialist
implementation.                                      Technology policy specialist
Investment Promotion specialist
3/98      Semi-annual Review: (i) progress on movable property   PSD specialist                     10
registry, securities market study, technology policy for    Legal specialist
agro- and agro-industrial sectors, and project       Technology policy specialist
monitoring mechanism; (ii) other ongoing issues of   Financial sector specialist
project implementation
9/98      Semi-annual Review: (i) results of third year         PSD specialist                      10
independent audit; (ii) ongoing issues of project     Legal specialist
implementation.                                       Technology policy specialist
3/99      Final supervision mission - Loan Closing: Review of    PSD specialist                     5
progress toward final project objectives; collection of
data for ICR









,.I
l     -      .           -           Il         .                 
?%                <



