Page  1
June 13, 2000
His Excellency 
Mr. Jose Luis Trigueros 
Minister of Finance 
Blvd. de los Héroes 
San Salvador, El Salvador
Re:
El Salvador: Loan No. 3946-ES (Competitiveness Enhancement 
Technical 
Assistance Project) Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement (Competitiveness Enhancement Technical 
Assistance Project) between the Republic of El Salvador (the Borrower) and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated January 19, 
1996, as amended (the Loan Agreement). Whenever used in this letter, the several terms 
defined in the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings set forth therein.
Based on discussions between staff of the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and the 
Bank and pursuant to your letter dated April 6, 2000.  The Bank is pleased to 
acknowledge your request and amends the Loan Agreement as follows:
I.
Delete the point at the end of Paragraph (d) of Section 1.02 of the Agreement 
and add Paragraphs (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (j) of Section 1.02 of the Agreement 
to read as follows:
“(e) 
“Beneficiary” means any private sector entity or group to which 
the Borrower  proposes to make or has made a Matching Grant referred to in Section 3.05 
to this Agreement;
(f)
“Info Trade Point” means the Borrower’s information center, within 
the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Economy, designed to provide information on 
foreign trade and 
investment to the private sector;
(g)
“Matching Grant” means a grant made by the Borrower out of 
proceeds of the 
Loan to a Beneficiary referred to in Section 3.05 to this 
Agreement;
(h)
“Matching Grant Agreement” means the grant agreement to be entered 
between the 
Borrower and a Beneficiary referred to in Section 3.05 (c) of this 
Agreement; and
(i)
“Operational Manual for Matching Grants” means the manual 
containing the 
policies and procedures referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of 
this Agreement.”
II.
Section 2.03 of the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
“Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date 
as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.”
III.
Section 3.05 of the Agreement is added to read as follows:
“Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall finance, through Matching Grants, 
activities to 
be carried out under Part A (c) (ii) of the Project by a 
Beneficiary, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and in 
accordance with the Operational Manual for 
Matching Grants;
(b)
The Borrower shall issue an operational manual for Matching 
Grants, 
satisfactory to the Bank, including the policies and 
procedures applicable to the 
implementation of such grants, the 
criteria for eligibility of the Beneficiaries, a list of 
activities eligible for 
Page  2
financing under the Matching Grants, and the terms and conditions of 
such grants, 
which shall include those in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; 
(c)
For the purposes of the implementation of paragraph (a) of this 
Section the 
Borrower and the Beneficiary shall enter into a Matching Grant Agreement 
on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank ; and 
(d)
the Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each 
Matching Grant 
Agreement in such a manner as to (i) protect the interest of 
the Borrower and the Bank, (ii) 
comply with the Borrower’s obligations under this 
Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes 
of the Project.” 
IV.
Section 3.06 of the Agreement is added to read as follows:
“Section 3.06 The Borrower shall establish by not later than September 15, 
2000, and 
thereafter maintain, with sufficient and qualified staff, an Information 
Trade Point in 
charge of promoting and facilitating foreign trade and 
investment.
V.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Agreement is hereby amended by 
adding a new Category (4) for Matching Grants and said table is to read as set forth 
in the Annex to this Amendment Letter.
VI.
Paragraph of Schedule 1 of the Agreement is amended to read as follow:
 
“The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of 
statements of expenditure for (a) expenditures for goods and consultants' 
services costing 
less than the equivalent of: (i) $100,000 in the case of goods; 
(ii) $100,000 in the case of 
consulting firms' services; and (iii) $50,000 in the 
case of individual consultants' 
services; (b) expenditures for training; and 
(c) expenditures for Matching Grants.”
VII.
A Schedule 6 to the Agreement is added as follows: 
“Schedule 6
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of Matching Grants
1.
The Borrower shall ensure that the Matching Grants are awarded on a 
non-discriminatory, first-come first-served basis to any potential Beneficiary which 
submits an application, all as provided in the Operational Manual for Matching Grants.
2.
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, each Matching Grant shall:
 
(a)   cover an amount equivalent up to 50% of the amount required for the 
preparation and execution of the activities to be carried out by a Beneficiary under a 
Matching Grant Agreement; and
(b)   not exceed a maximum amount of $30,000 equivalent per Matching Grant and 
$60,000 equivalent per Beneficiary.
3.
Matching Grants shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower obtains in written, 
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, including the 
rights to:
(a)   require the Beneficiary to carry out the activities covered by the 
Matching Grant Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound managerial, administrative, foreign trade and environmental standards and to 
maintain adequate records;
(b)   require that:
(i)
the consultants' services or training to be financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the Matching Grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
Operational Manual 
for Matching Grants, at a reasonable price, account 
being taken on their 
quality and the competence of the 
parties rendering them; and
Page  3
(ii)
such services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
activities 
to be implemented under a Matching Grant Agreement;
 
(c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, if the 
Bank shall so request, the progress in the implementation of the activities to be 
financed out of the Matching Grants, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)   obtain all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request relating 
to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial condition of the 
Beneficiary and to the benefits derived from the carrying out of the activities 
financed by the Matching Grants; and
(e)   suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Matching Grant upon failure by the Beneficiary to perform its 
obligations under the Matching Grant Agreement.
4.
If the Borrower or the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment 
made under a Matching Grant was used by the Beneficiary in any manner contrary to the 
provisions of the respective Matching Grant Agreement, the Beneficiary shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Borrower, refund to the Borrower an amount equal to the amount so 
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Borrower.”
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing the two originals of 
this letter and returning one fully signed original to us.  Upon receipt by the Bank 
of such fully signed original, and evidence that the Operational Manual for Matching 
Grants has been issued, the amendment set forth in this letter will be effective as of 
the date of this letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Donna M. Dowsett-Coirolo
Director 
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
By /s/ José Luis Trigueros
Authorized Representative
Date:
June 23, 2000
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
      1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category 
and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the  
Loan Allocated          % of 
(Expressed in      
Expenditures 
    Dollar              to be 
Category           
  Equivalent)         Financed
Page  4
(1)   Goods                   2,670,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 
87% of local 
expenditures
(2)
Consultants' services  12,580,000
100%
and training
(3)
Operating Costs
     250,000
 
100%
(4)   Matching Grants            500,000 
50% of amounts disbursed
TOTAL           16,000,000
