Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                        LOAN NUMBER 3946-ES
                               Loan Agreement
         (Competitiveness Enhancement Technical Assistance Project)
                                   between
                           REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated January 19, 1996
                                                        LOAN NUMBER 3946-ES
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 19, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF EL
SALVADOR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;
      (B)  the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Single
Currency Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency
Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
Page  2
      (a)   "Consumer Protection Law" means the Borrower's
consumer protection law No. D.L. 207, published in the
Borrower's official gazette dated July 31, 1992, as amended;
      (b)   "Project Coordination Unit" means the unit referred
to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
      (c)   "Project Implementation Plan" means the plan,
satisfactory to Bank to be issued pursuant to Section 5.01 of
this Agreement, which establishes, inter alia, the timetable
for the implementation of the Project activities, the expected
Project outputs and the responsibilities of the Borrower's
agencies associated with Project implementation; and
      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount equal to sixteen million Dollars
($16,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its
central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
             (i)   "Interest Period" means the initial period from
                   and including the date of this Agreement to,
                   but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date
                   occurring thereafter, and after the initial
                   period, each period from and including an
                   Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the
                   next following Interest Payment Date.
            (ii)   "Interest Payment Date" means any date
                   specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
           (iii)   "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest
                   Period, the London interbank offered rate for
                   six-month deposits in Dollars for value the
Page  3
                   first day of such Interest Period (or, in the
                   case of the initial Interest Period, for value
                   the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next
                   preceding the first day of such Interest
                   Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank
                   and expressed as a percentage per annum.
           (iii)   "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest
                   Period: (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of
                   1%); and (B) minus (or plus) the weighted
                   average margin, for such Interest Period, below
                   (or above) the London interbank offered rates,
                   or other reference rates, for six-month
                   deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
                   borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the
                   Bank to fund single currency loans or portions
                   thereof made by it that include the Loan, as
                   reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                   as a percentage per annum.
      (c)   The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate
and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon
the determination thereof.
      (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice
affecting the determination of the interest rates referred to
in this Section 2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply
a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the
Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may
modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable
to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six
months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The basis
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not
apply to the Loan.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
economic, financial, administrative and commercial practices,
and in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance
with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
Page  4
      (b)   furnish to the Bank, during the month of February and
August of each year until the completion of the Project,
beginning in 1996, a report prepared under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project during the six calendar months
preceding the date of said report;
      (c)   in each of the reports referred to in paragraph (b)
above, also recommend the measures to ensure the efficient
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof; and
      (d)   review with the Bank, by not later than March 31 and
September 30 of each year until the completion of the Project,
beginning in 1996, the corresponding reports furnished
according to paragraph (b) above, and thereafter take all
measures, satisfactory to the Bank, required to ensure the
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof.
      Section 3.04.  Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   maintain, until the report referred to in Section
9.07 (c) of the General Conditions has been prepared, a unit
with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank
which shall include, inter alia: (i) coordination of the
implementation of the Project; (ii) monitoring and evaluation
of the Project; (iii) preparation of the reports referred to in
Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement and 9.07 (c) of the General
Conditions; and (iv) processing of documentation required for
the procurement of goods and consultants' services under the
Project and for the disbursement of Loan proceeds; and
      (b)   ensure that the office referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section is at all times staffed with at least one full-
time professional with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
           (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and
                   the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
Page  5
                   time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such
                   fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                   internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01.  The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Bank has received evidence,
satisfactory to the Bank, that the Project Implementation Plan
has been issued by the Borrower.
      Section 5.02. The date April 18, 1996 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Promotion
and International Cooperation of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores,
            Promocion y Cooperacion Internacional
            Final 17 Avenida Norte
            Costado Poniente CEL
            Centro de Gobierno
            San Salvador, El Salvador
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   RREE                    2814209
Page  6
                   Centro de Gobierno
                   San Salvador
                   El Salvador
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
            INTBAFRAD                      248423 (RCA)
            Washington, D.C.                82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
                         By /s/ Maria Teresa Orellana de Rendon
                                                  Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                    Regional Vice President
                                            Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
      1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                 Dollar              to be
      Category                 Equivalent)         Financed
(1)   Goods                    2,670,000          100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures
                                                  and 87% of local
                                                  expenditures
(2)   Consultants'
      services and
      training                13,330,000          100%
                              __________
      TOTAL                   16,000,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  7
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "training" includes, inter alia: (i) all the
necessary activities and equipment acquisitions for training to
be provided under the Project; (ii) production of training
materials; (iii) rental of training facilities; (iv)
transportation expenses of trainees to the place where training
is provided and subsistence expenses for such trainees; (v)
scholarships and fellowships for training courses to be
provided in the Borrower's territory or abroad; and (vi) study
tours and internships in the Borrower's territory or abroad;
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed  the
equivalent of $1,600,000, may be made in respect of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after June 1, 1995.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for goods and consultants' services costing less
than the equivalent of: (a) $100,000 in the case of goods; (b)
$100,000 in the case of consulting firms' services; and (c)
$50,000 in the case of individual consultants' services.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the
business environment in the Borrower's territory; (b) enhance
the technological capabilities of private sector enterprises
operating in the Borrower's territory; and (c) develop means
for a public dialogue among the Borrower, the private sector,
the labor sector and society at large regarding issues on
economic competitiveness.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time.
Part A:      Business Environment Enhancement
      Provision of technical assistance, and acquisition of
equipment required therefor, to:
      (a)    improve the business environment in the Borrower's
territory, including: (i) the formulation of a proposal on a
competition law, and the strengthening of the Borrower's
institutional capacity for the implementation and enforcement
thereof; (ii) the formulation of a proposal to enhance the
Consumer Protection Law, and the strengthening of the
Borrower's institutional capacity for the implementation and
enforcement thereof; (iii) the formulation of proposals on out-
of-court debt restructuring; and (iv) the formulation of a
proposal on a bankruptcy law, and the strengthening of the
Borrower's institutional capacity for the enforcement thereof;
      (b)    coordinate, supervise and support the establishment
of the economic and legal framework for the infrastructure
services required for the improvement of the business
environment in the Borrower's territory, such as
telecommunications, power and transportation, and customs
Page  8
services and for the privatization of such services, as
required;
      (c)    (i) modernize the legal framework for trade and
commerce; (ii) promote and facilitate foreign trade and
investment and strengthen the Borrower's institutional capacity
thereto; (iii) create a registry of movable assets and
strengthen the Borrower's institutional capacity to operate
such registry; and (iv) modernize the commercial and the
intellectual property registries and strengthening of the
Borrower's institutional capacity to operate such registries;
and
      (d)    modernize the Borrower's financial system, through
inter alia: (i) reforms for the internationalization of
financial services; (ii) policy reforms on bank failure
resolution and deposit insurance, and to define the role of the
Borrower's central bank as a lender of last resort; and (iii)
enhancement of the systems for commercial payments, including:
cheque clearing, large value transfer of funds and settlement
of securities trading.
Part B:      Private Sector Technological Capabilities Enhancement
      Provision of technical assistance, and acquisition of
equipment required therefor, to enhance the technological
capabilities of private sector enterprises operating in the
Borrower's territory, including: (a) the design of a program to
promote the adoption of international quality and productivity
standards; (b) the formulation of a plan to strengthen the
national science and technology institutions; and (c) the
design of a national scheme for demand-driven technical
training.
Part C:      Public Information
      Provision of technical assistance, and acquisition of
equipment required therefor, to develop a public dialogue on
economic competitiveness issues in order to, inter alia:  (a)
enhance public awareness on the objectives of the Borrower's
economic and social reforms and the instruments to reach such
reforms; and (b) improve the cooperation between the Borrower,
and society at large to enhance competitiveness in the
Borrower's territory.
Part D:      Project Administration
1.    Strengthening, through the provision of technical
assistance and training, of the capacity of the Project
Coordination Unit to administer, monitor and evaluate the
Project.
2.    Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of
auditing activities under the Project.
                                    * * *
        The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                            Amortization Schedule
                                             Payment of Principal
                                                 (Expressed in
Date Payment Due                                    Dollars)
On each April 15 and October 15
      beginning April 15, 2001
      through April 15, 2012                          665,000
Page  9
      and on October 15, 2012                         705,000
___________________________________
*     The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars
      to be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of
      the General Conditions.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods
Part A:      General
        Goods shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of
this Section, as applicable.
Part B:      International Competitive Bidding
1.      Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.      Preference for domestically manufactured goods
        The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:      Other Procurement Procedures
1.      Limited International Bidding
        Goods or packages of goods estimated to cost $100,000
equivalent or more, per contract, and goods which the Bank
agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of
suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.      Two-stage bidding procedures
        The bidding procedure for complex information and
communication systems to be procured in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 above shall be carried out in two
stages in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of
the Guidelines.
3.      International Shopping
        Goods costing less than the equivalent of $100,000, per
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of international shopping procedures, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $500,000, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.      National Shopping
        Goods costing less than the equivalent of $50,000, per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
Page  10
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:      Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.      Procurement Planning
        Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall
be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.      Prior Review
        With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to
the provisions of Parts B and C.1 of this Section, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.      Post Review
        With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.      Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank
shall be used.
2.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior
Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts; (b) single source selection of firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by
the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or more; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or more.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                               Special Account
 1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
        (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the
Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
        (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
Page  11
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
        (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.      Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.      After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
        (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
        (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account,
                    the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
                    requests for deposits into the Special Account
                    at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
             (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                    the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                    documents and other evidence required pursuant
                    to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                    payment or payments in respect of which
                    replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
                    each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf
                    of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan
                    Account and deposit into the Special Account
                    such amount as the Borrower shall have
                    requested and as shall have been shown by said
                    documents and other evidence to have been paid
                    out of the Special Account for eligible
                    expenditures.
        All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.      For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
        (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
        (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to
the Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01
(b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required
Page  12
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect
of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special
Account;
        (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
        (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
        Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.      (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.
        (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.
        (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit
in the Special Account.
        (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
