Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2384 
Operation Name 
Second Business Product and Efficiency Development Policy 
Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General finance sector (50%);General industry and trade sector 
(50%) 
Project ID 
P095213 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, National Planning 
Department 
Date PID Prepared 
May 2, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 04, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
October 24, 2006 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Since 2002, Colombia has returned to its usual path of steady economic growth, putting the crisis of 
1998/1999 well behind it. The turnaround is partly due to the much improved global economic 
environment: world growth has accelerated, the cost of international credit has fallen, and the prices of 
Colombia’s primary exports have risen.  Domestic factors, particularly the improved security situation 
and stable macroeconomic polices, have also driven the country’s recovery.  Improving conditions are 
reflected by an almost 3 percentage point increase in private investment as a share of Gross Domestic 
Product (GDP) since 2002, and real economic growth that accelerated from 1.6 percent in 2002 to 5.1 
percent in 2005.  Colombia’s unemployment rate dropped from over 17 percent in 2002 to less than 10.4 
percent in December 2005.  Inflation has stayed under control; falling from 7.0 percent in 2002 to 4.9 
percent in 2005.   
The Government of Colombia (GoC) recognizes that the private sector is the engine of the country’s 
economic growth, and has put measures to foster a stronger private sector supply response high on its 
agenda for increasing growth.  The brighter macro-level picture is central to this, through revived 
aggregate demand and greater consumer and business confidence. The government is also undertaking 
an extensive program of micro-level reforms to facilitate business operations and increase the 
productivity and competitiveness of Colombian firms, in particular to fully exploit the export 
opportunities offered by the prospective Free Trade Agreement with the US.   
The GoC’s ongoing financial sector reforms are also geared towards facilitating the flow of capital to the 
productive sector.  Sustaining and accelerating economic growth requires the upgrading and expansion 
of productive capacity, which in turn demands a strong rate of private investment. However, this has not 
yet recovered to pre-crisis levels.
 
Colombia has made considerable progress both in supply-side 
measures to make business activity easier and in strengthening the financial sector.  In 2005, the World 
Bank/IFC Report “Doing Business” ranked the country as the number two reformer worldwide in the 
area of business environment. Actions taken include the establishment of fiscal incentives for certain 
types of private investments (Law 788 of 2002), increases in labor market flexibility (Law 789 of 2003), 
the facilitation of foreign direct investment (Decrees 2080 of 2000 and 1844 of 2003); and the creation 
of incentives for increasing credit to the private sector, including through micro-credit (Law 795 of 
2003). Similarly, the Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) of 2004 highlighted the recovery of 
Page  2
the financial sector since the crisis of the late 1990s, largely thanks to a broad range of financial sector 
legal and regulatory reforms.   
However, the country still faces important challenges in these two areas, and has requested the support 
of the Bank for the continuation of its reform process.    
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The development objective of this Program remains unchanged and it is to support sustainable growth 
and the alleviation of poverty by: 
(a) 
Facilitating the operation of businesses and promoting investment, to boost productivity and 
employment levels; and 
(b) 
Consolidating the financial sector and capital markets as pillars of economic growth to 
addresses the needs of individuals and the productive sector. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The second loan of this program will support policy reforms in three areas: 
(a) 
Strengthening competitiveness policies by facilitating the implementation of the 
Agenda Interna (region and sector-specific competitiveness plans) 
(b) 
Enhancing quality standards and technological innovation by (i) establishing a 
clear policy for overhauling, updating and strengthening support for science technology and 
innovation and (ii) improving the quality and conformity assessment framework to enhance 
competitiveness in international markets 
(c) 
Making the financial sector sounder and deeper by (i) increasing financial sector 
competitiveness, (ii) strengthening supervision of the financial sector, (iii) improving the 
legal framework underpinning the supply of credit, (iv) fostering the development and 
integrity of the capital markets, (v) supporting the development of a sound money market, 
and (vi) reducing the risk of money laundering and financing of terrorism 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The reforms supported by the proposed loan are not expected to have any significant effect on the 
environment. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
300 
 Total 
300 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Juan Carlos Mendoza, Task Manager 
Page  3
Title: Senior Financial Economist 
Tel: (+1 202) 473-1735 
Email: 
jmendoza@worldbank.org
Location: Washington, DC (IBRD)  
 
