Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2703 
Operation Name 
Second Business Product and Efficiency Development Policy 
Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General finance sector (45%);General industry and trade sector 
(45%);General energy sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P095213 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (MHCP), National Planning 
Department (DNP) 
Date PID Prepared 
November 27, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 31, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
December 5, 2006 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Since 2002, Colombia has returned to its usual path of steady economic growth, putting the crisis 
of 1998/1999 well behind it. The turnaround is partly due to the much improved global economic 
environment: world growth has accelerated, the cost of international credit has fallen, and the 
prices of Colombia’s primary exports have risen.  Domestic factors, particularly the improved 
security situation and stable macroeconomic polices, have also driven the country’s recovery.  
Improving conditions are reflected by an almost 3 percentage point increase in private 
investment as a share of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) since 2002, and real economic growth 
that accelerated from 1.6 percent in 2002 to 5.1 percent in 2005.  Colombia’s unemployment rate 
dropped from over 17 percent in 2002 to less than 10.4 percent in December 2005.  Inflation has 
stayed under control; falling from 7.0 percent in 2002 to 4.9 percent in 2005.   
The Government of Colombia (GoC) recognizes that the private sector is the engine of the 
country’s economic growth, and has put measures to foster a stronger private sector supply 
response high on its agenda for increasing growth.  The brighter macro-level picture is central to 
this, through revived aggregate demand and greater consumer and business confidence. The 
government is also undertaking an extensive program of micro-level reforms to facilitate 
business operations and increase the productivity and competitiveness of Colombian firms, in 
particular to fully exploit the export opportunities offered by the prospective Free Trade 
Agreement with the US.   
The GoC’s ongoing financial sector reforms are also geared towards facilitating the flow of 
capital to the productive sector.  Sustaining and accelerating economic growth requires the 
upgrading and expansion of productive capacity, which in turn demands a strong rate of private 
investment. However, this has not yet recovered to pre-crisis levels.
 
Colombia has made 
considerable progress both in supply-side measures to make business activity easier and in 
strengthening the financial sector.  In 2005, the World Bank/IFC Report “Doing Business” 
ranked the country as the number two reformer worldwide in the area of business environment. 
Actions taken include the establishment of fiscal incentives for certain types of private 
Page  2
investments (Law 788 of 2002), increases in labor market flexibility (Law 789 of 2003), the 
facilitation of foreign direct investment (Decrees 2080 of 2000 and 1844 of 2003); and the 
creation of incentives for increasing credit to the private sector, including through micro-credit 
(Law 795 of 2003). Similarly, the Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) of 2004 
highlighted the recovery of the financial sector since the crisis of the late 1990s, largely thanks to 
a
broad range of financial sector legal and regulatory reforms.   
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The development objective of this Program remains unchanged from the first loan of this series 
and it is to support sustainable growth and the alleviation of poverty by: 
(a) 
Facilitating the operation of businesses and promoting investment, to boost 
productivity and employment levels; and 
(b) 
Consolidating the financial sector and capital markets as pillars of economic growth 
to addresses the needs of individuals and the productive sector. 
 
3. Operation description 
 
The second loan of this program will support policy reforms in three areas: 
(a) 
Strengthening competitiveness policies by facilitating the 
implementation of the 
Agenda Interna
 (region and sector-specific competitiveness 
plans)
 including
:
(i) the issuance of a central government policy directive that 
establishes the bases for the development of a productivity and competitiveness 
policy, including the institutional framework; (ii) the issuance of an inter-ministerial 
decree establishing the roles and responsibilities of government agencies and 
programs involved in formulating, implementing and monitoring competitiveness 
policy; and (iii) issuance by 
Departamento Nacional de Planeación (
DNP) on its web 
page of at least 10 regional and 10 sector reports from the 
Agenda Interna
 
(b) 
Enhancing quality standards and technological innovation by (i) 
establishing a clear policy for overhauling, updating and strengthening support for 
science technology and innovation and (ii) improving the quality and conformity 
assessment framework to enhance competitiveness in international markets 
(c) 
Making the financial sector sounder and deeper by (i) increasing 
financial sector competitiveness through the adoption of a mid-term reform map to 
address the need for increased access and diversity of financial products; (ii) 
strengthening supervision of the financial sector; (iii) improving the legal framework 
underpinning the supply of credit, (iv) fostering the development and integrity of the 
capital markets, (v) supporting the development of a sound money market, and (vi) 
reducing the risk of money laundering and financing of terrorism 
 
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
Page  3
The Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (MHCP, 
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
)
and the National Planning Department (
Departamento Nacional de Planeación
)
will be 
responsible for the overall implementation of this program. 
 
5. Benefits and Risks 
 
The proposed operation supports an institutional effort widely perceived as necessary by most 
political actors, and that the Government is already actively implementing. Therefore, there is 
little risk that the actions already taken could be reversed and that the indicative triggers for the 
preparation of the next operation are not reached within the twelve months following the 
effectiveness of this second loan. Some risks, identified during the preparation of the first loan, 
have not materialized. However, while moderate, they still exist and include: 
·
Given the multi-sector nature of policies associated with competitiveness, mechanisms for 
inter-institutional collaboration in support of competitiveness related reforms may be 
hampered by lack of coordination among agencies  
·
Current levels of public debt may pose a threat to overall macroeconomic stability 
particularly if the positive external environment were to deteriorate 
Finally, a remaining risk relates to when the impact of reforms may be felt 
–
the anticipated 
positive changes may occur beyond the timeframe of this programmatic series. 
 
6. Poverty and Social Impacts and Environmental Aspects 
 
The operation supports policies that seek to reduce poverty, through fostering sustainable 
economic growth.  It has been widely recognized that, in order to reap the benefits of the trade 
integration and further stimulate economic growth, it is essential to work on a complementary 
agenda of competitiveness, encompassing, among others, infrastructure, business regulation and 
efficient factor markets. A favorable business environment and a stronger, more efficient, and 
more diversified financial system and capital market could provide the opportunity to private 
enterprises (the engine of economic expansion) to access a larger amount of resources. The 
proposed operation advances the Country Assistance Strategy’s aim of promoting fast and 
sustainable growth through stimulating private sector activity and investment.  
The proposed operation includes measures that would promote more equitable growth, which 
could have a greater impact over poverty reduction in Colombia. Strengthening corporate 
governance and the rights of minority shareholders and generally fostering greater and broader 
participation in the equity market should lead to a more equal sharing of the fruits of economic 
expansion. On the side of firms, expanding credit access and other forms of financing will 
benefit newer and smaller companies.  Improving the institutional framework for phytosanitary 
standards will ensure that agricultural producers will have access to international markets.  The 
ongoing Agricultural Transition Project (Loan 7313-CO) is assisting the GoC in training officials 
and agricultural extension agents in agricultural practices consistent with the upgraded 
phytosanitary standards.  This will ensure that small producers will receive the technical 
assistance necessary to adopt such standards. 
Prevention of financial crises is also essential to poverty alleviation. Despite current market 
optimism and Government commitment, macroeconomic stability and, therefore, poverty 
reduction in Colombia, still depend on factors that are not under the control of the authorities
.
Page  4
Downturns in the emerging market credit could place the Colombian economy under important 
strain. Years of consistent economic growth throughout the 1980s and early 1990s lifted many 
households out of poverty in Colombia, but the macroeconomic crisis at the end of the 1990s 
eradicated more than a decade of progress.
 
With the return of stable economic growth in the last 
few years, national poverty measures have begun to improve again, and almost 1.5 million 
people moved out of poverty between 2002 and 2004. In strengthening the financial system 
through greater market integrity and enhanced prudential regulation, the proposed program helps 
to reduce the risk of future financial crises. 
This operation is not expected to have significant effects on the environment.  Following the 
Bank’s Operational Manual directive 8.60, this proposed operation was reviewed for any 
potential effects relating to the environment, forest and natural resources.  It has been determined 
that the operation is not likely to have any significant effects on the environment. 
However, the increased economic activity likely to result from the policies supported by this 
operation may have environmental implications that will require careful management.  The Bank 
is assisting the GoC in strengthening the environmental framework necessary to address such 
potential impacts. The Programmatic Sustainable Development DPL series is improving the 
effectiveness and efficiency of the National Environmental System (SINA) – the GoC set of 
agencies and the legal and regulatory framework governing environmental policies - and 
integrating principles of sustainable development into key sectors, with a particular emphasis on 
protecting the most vulnerable groups.  Additionally, the recently completed Country 
Environmental Analysis provides a roadmap of continued reform that is currently being 
implemented through the aforementioned programmatic DPL. 
7. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
300 
 Total 
300 
 
8. Contact points: 
 
Juan Carlos Mendoza, Task Manager  
Jose Guilherme Reis 
Title: Senior Financial Economist 
 
Title: Sr. Private Sector Development Specialist 
Tel: (+1 202) 473-1735 
 
 
Tel: (+1 202) 458-8835 
Email: 
jmendoza@worldbank.org
Email: jreis@worldbank.org 
Location: Washington DC (IBRD)  
 
Location: Washington DC (IBRD) 
 
