Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7413-CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Programmatic Business Productivity and Efficiency  
Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 6, 2006 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7413-CO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated December 6, 2006, entered into between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
(
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II
—LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of $300,000,000 (three hundred million 
Dollars) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time. In the event that the Borrower selects 
not to capitalize the Font-end Fee, the Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not 
later than 60 days after the Effective Date.  
Page  3
2
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, 
reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III
—PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
 
Page  4
3
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE IV
—REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
At any time after requesting an exchange of
 
views with the Borrower as 
provided for in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Bank has 
determined that a situation has arisen which, in the opinion of the Bank, 
shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof 
will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
At any time after requesting an exchange of views with the Borrower as 
provided for in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, t
he Borrower’s 
macroeconomic policy framework has, in the opinion of the Bank, 
become inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
At any time after requesting an exchange of views with the Borrower as 
provided for in section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Bank has 
determined that an action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to 
reverse any action or policy under the Program, including any action 
listed under Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in a manner that 
would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement of 
the objectives of the Program. 
 
ARTICLE V
—EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later 
than the eighteen months after the B
ank’s approval of the Loan which expires on June 9, 
2008. 
 
Page  5
4
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Carrera 7-A. No. 6-45, Piso 3 
Bogotá, República de Colombia 
 
Facsimile: (57-1) 350-9344 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for  
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  6
5
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
By /s/ Mariana Pacheco 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
To enhance competitiveness, specifically in respect of advancing the 
implementation of regional and sector competitiveness plans, the Borrower has: 
 
(a) 
Issued, through CONPES, policy directive No. 3439 dated August 14, 
2006, which establishes the basis for the development of a productivity 
and competitiveness policy, including the institutional framework in 
relation thereto. 
 
(b) 
Issued Presidential Decree
 
No. 2828 dated August 23, 2006, which 
establishes the roles and responsibilities of Borrower’s agencies and 
contents and substance of the programs involved in or concerned with 
the formulation, implementation and monitoring of its competitiveness 
policy. 
 
(c)  
Published electronically, through DNP and on its website
 Agenda 
Interna, 
implementation plans for no less than 10 regions and 10 
economic sectors.
 
2. 
To strengthen its financial system and capital markets, the Borrower has: 
 
(a) 
Issued, through CONPES, for the purpose of strengthening supervision 
of the sector, policy directive No. 3399 dated November 28, 2005, which 
mandates that: (i) an evaluation of the effectiveness of the merger 
process of the banking and securities superintendencies be carried out; 
and (ii) all the enabling legislation required to increase the legal and 
budgetary independence of the resulting merged superintendency be 
elaborated.  
 
(b) 
Issued, through MHCP, for the purpose of ensuring increased access to 
and diversity of financial products, a mid-term roadmap dated October 
02, 2006, for selected reforms of the financial sector supported by sound 
analytical underpinnings.  
 
(c)   
(i) Submitted on July 21, 2006, through MHCP, for adoption by the 
Borrower’s legislative branch,  the draft credit information Law No. 27S 
(
Ley de Habeas Data
); (ii) issued, through MHCP,  Decree No. 2233 
dated July 07, 2006, authorizing the establishment of banking 
Page  8
7
correspondents; and (iii) issued, through MHCP,  Decree No. 2230 dated 
July 06, 2006, mandating the disclosure of fees charged by issuers of 
payment and credit cards, all for the purpose of modernizing the legal 
framework for the supply of credit with a view to promoting 
transparency and access to financial services
.
(d)   
Issued, through MHCP, for the purpose of fostering development and 
integrity of the Borrower’s capital markets as required pursuant to Law 
No. 964 of the Borrower, the following Decrees which together set forth 
the implementing regulations to the Borrower’s securities law and 
establish new supervisory powers in the Borrower’s Superintendency of 
Finance with respect to: 
 
(i) 
qualifications and registry requirements for financial  
market 
 
intermediaries, through Decree No. 3139 dated   September 
12, 
 2006; 
 
 
(ii) 
self-regulation of market participants, through Decree No. 1565 
dated May 19
,
2006;  
 
(iii) 
investor protection rules, through Decree No. 4759 dated 
December 30, 2005; 
 
(iv) 
agricultural commodities exchanges, through Decree No. 1511 
dated May 15, 2006;  
 
(v)  
the custody and settlement and payment of foreign exchange, 
through Decree No. 700 dated March 08, 2006;  
 
(vi) 
foreign issuers, through Decree No. 1564 dated May 19, 2006; 
and  
 
(vii)  
public tender offers, through Decree No. 1941 dated June 13, 
2006. 
 
(e) 
Issued, through MHCP, for the purpose of supporting the development of 
a
sound money market, Decree No. 4708 dated December 26, 2005, 
which establishes the legal characteristics of selected financial 
instruments.  
 
(f) 
Submitted on December 19, 2005, to the Borrower’s legislative branch, 
through MHCP, MIJ and MD for the purpose of combating money 
laundering and the financing of terrorism, draft Law No. 208 of 2005, 
which would criminalize the financing of terrorism and strengthen the 
Page  9
8
budgetary and institutional capacity of the 
Unidad de
 Información y 
Análisis Financiero.
 
(g) 
Issued, through MHCP, Decree No. 2515 dated July 22, 2005, for the 
strengthening of the budgetary and institutional capacity of the 
Unidad 
de Información y Análisis Financiero
.
3. 
To improve product quality standards and foster technological innovation, the 
Borrower has: 
 
(a)
 
(i) 
issued, through CONPES,
 
policy directive No. 3446 dated
 
October 30, 2006, which, for the purpose of improving the 
 
quality and conformity assessment framework needed to enhance 
 
competitiveness in international markets, sets forth the 
 
guidelines for establishing
 
independent accreditation and 
 
metrology entities to facilitate their international recognition;  
 
(ii) 
issued, through CONPES,  document No. 3375 dated September 
 
05, 2005, which establishes the national policy for the system of 
 
sanitary and phytosanitary measures  destined to improve the 
 
health and innocuity conditions of national food and agricultural 
 
products and to facilitate their admission to international 
 markets; 
and 
 
(iii) 
adopted, through its legislative branch, on October 18, 2006,
 
the 
national budget for 2007 which records no less than a six fold 
increase of the resources devoted to strengthening the metrology 
infrastructure, as compared to the national budget for 2006.  
 
(b) Carried 
out, 
through 
Colciencias
,
for the purpose of strengthening the 
foundations of the science, technology and innovation policies of the 
Borrower, an evaluation of the ongoing support mechanisms and 
institutions involved in technology support and transfer to the productive 
sector, the conclusions of which are recorded in several reports  
furnished to the Bank on October 13, 2006. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  10
9
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocation 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
 
Single Tranche 
 
300,000,000 
Front-end Fee 
 
0
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
300,000,000 
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee
.
Subject to applicable provisions of Section 2.04. in 
respect of any waiver of the Front-end Fee, if the Borrower selects not to 
capitalize the Front-end Fee, no
 
withdrawal shall be made from the Loan 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee. 
 
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2007. 
Page  11
10
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each February 15 and August 15 
Beginning:  
 
February 15, 2013 through August 15, 
2013; 
 
8.33 % 
February 15, 2016 through August 15, 
2017; 
 
6.67 % 
February 15, 2018 through August 15, 
2019; 
 
10.00 % 
February 15, 2020 through August 15, 
2020; 
 
3.33 % 
February 15, 2021 through February 15, 
2023; and  
 
1.67 % 
On August 15, 2023.  
 
1.65 % 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
Page  12
11
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (
“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
Page  13
12
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“
Agenda Interna
”
means the Internal Productivity and Competitiveness Agenda 
developed by the Borrower following a wide consultative process of local 
businesses and enterprises and aimed at identifying bottlenecks to 
competitiveness and key policies for addressing them.
 
2.
 
“
Colciencias
”
means 
Instituto Colombiano para el Desarrollo de la Ciencia y 
Tecnología Francisco José de Caldas,
 a Borrower’s agency under the 
administrative authority of
 
the Borrower’s DNP,
 
established in 1968
 
and 
entrusted with the responsibility of
 
implementing the Borrower’s programs in 
matters of science and technology. 
 
3. “CONPES” 
means 
Consejo Nacional de Política Económica y Social
,
the 
Borrower’s National Council on Economic and Social Policy. 
 
4. “DNP” 
means 
Departamento Nacional de Planeación,
 the Borrowe
r’s National 
Planning Department.  
 
5. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
 
112  Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
Page  14
13
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
w
atch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds 
during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
7. “MCIT” 
means 
Ministerio de Comercio, Industria y Turismo
,
the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism. 
 
8. “MD” 
means 
Ministerio de Defensa Nacional
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
National
 
Defense. 
 
9. “MHCP” 
means 
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
,
the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit. 
 
Page  15
14
10. 
“MIJ” means 
Ministerio del Interior y de Justicia
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Interior and Justice. 
 
11. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated October 27, 2006 from the Borrower to the Bank 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
12. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
13. “
Unidad de Información y Análisis Financiero
”
means the financial intelligence 
unit of MHCP. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
Page  16
15
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program.” 
 
