                                      Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 26147

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                       (CPL-39730)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                         FOR AN

                    URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                       June 26, 2003




ESSD Sector Management Unit
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2002)

                         Currency Unit = Peso Colombiano
                                  US$ 1 = 2,859.95 pesos

                               FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 - December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AREA               Metropolitan Planning Agency of the Aburrá Valley, or Área
                   Metropolitana del Valle de Aburrá
CAR                Autonomous Regional Corporation, or Corporación Autónoma Regional
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
DAHP               Directorate of Human Settlements and Population in MinAmbiente, or
                   Dirección General de Asentamientos Humanos y Población
DAMA               Department of Environment of Bogotá, or Departamento Administrativo
                   de Medio Ambiente - Santa Fe de Bogotá
DADIMA             Department of Environment of Barranquilla, or Departamento
                   Administrativo Distrital de Medio Ambiente - Barranquilla
DAGMA              Department of Environment of Cali, or Departamento de Gestión
                   de Medio Ambiente - Cali
EMA                Environmental Management Agency
MinAmbiente/MoE    Ministry of Environment, or Ministerio de Ambiente
NGOs               Non-Governmental Organizations
POT                Comprehensive Nine-Year Land-Use Plan, or Plan de Ordenamiento
                   Territorial
SIA                Environmental Information System, or Sistema de Información Ambiental
SIGAM              Municipal Environmental Management System, or Sistema de Gestión
                   Ambiental Municipal
SINA               National Environment System, or Sistema Nacional Ambiental
TA                 Technical Assistance




                        Vice President:     David de Ferranti
             Country Manager/Director:      Isabel M. Guerrero
              Sector Manager/Director:      John Redwood
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Kulsum Ahmed

                                         COLOMBIA
                         Urban Environmental Management Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Borrower's ICR                                                          31
Map

Project ID: P039291                                                      Project Name: Urban Environmental Management
                                                                         Project
Team Leader: Kulsum Ahmed                                                TL Unit: LCSEN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 26, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Urban Environmental Management Project                   L/C/TF Number: CPL-39730
   Country/Department: COLOMBIA                                                           Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Sub-national government administration (77%); Central government
                            administration (23%)
                  Theme: Environmental policies and institutions (P); Municipal governance
                            and institution building (P); Administrative and civil service reform
                            (P); Civic engagement, participation and community driven
                            development (P); Legal institutions for a market economy (P)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    12/02/1994                                        Effective: 06/26/1996              07/25/1996
   Appraisal:    07/23/1995                                            MTR:                           07/14/1998
    Approval:    01/16/1996                                         Closing: 07/31/2000               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA/MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT &
                                           MUNICIPALITIES
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David De Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Yoshe Abe
Sector Manager:                 John Redwood                                   Eugene McCarthy
Team Leader at ICR:             Kulsum Ahmed                                   Maria Teresa Serra
ICR Primary Author:             Angela Armstrong


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The primary objective of the project was to support implementation of Colombia's National Environmental
Policy and the improvement of environmental management capacity in the country's urban areas through
(a) strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Environment (MoE) to provide policy advice and technical
assistance to Colombian urban centers, and (b) strengthening environmental management agencies (EMAs)
in the urban centers of Bogotá, Cali, Medellín, and Barranquilla.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not Applicable.

3.3 Original Components:
Table 1. Costs by Project Component

                                                                           Costs (US$ million)
Component                                                      At appraisal   Reprogrammed      At closing
                                                                  (1995)        (23-9-1999)    (31-3-2002)
Component 1: Design and implementation of a technical                   9.15             6.74           5.00
assistance strategy through MoE for cities of less than one
million inhabitants
  (a) MoE's TA Strategy and Action Plan                                  0.30                           0.15
  (b) Urban Environmental Strategies and Action Plans                    1.15                           0.67
  (c) Studies                                                            2.66                           2.21
  (d) Organizational Support/Project Administration                      0.90                           0.74
  (e) Acquisition of Equipment                                           0.14                           0.37
  (f) Training                                                           2.40                           0.81
  (g) Information System                                                 1.60                           0.05
Component 2: Institutional strengthening of EMAs in                     30.85          21.66          21.73
Bogotá, Cali, Medellín, and Barranquilla
  (a) Design of EMAs                                                     1.49                           3.38
  (b) Environmental Strategies and Action Plans                          3.05                           1.93
  (c) Studies                                                            6.93                           5.17
  (d) Preparation of Regulations and Procedures                          2.90                           0.78
  (e) Organizational Support/Project Administration                      1.28                           1.90
  (f) Acquisition of Equipment                                           0.30                           3.97
  (g) Training                                                           2.90                           0.84
  (h) Environmental Education and Public Participation                   1.70                           1.28
  (i) Information System                                                10.30                           2.48
Component 3: Earthquake Reconstruction (Housing                                          5.70           5.70
Grants)
Unallocated                                                                              0.10           0.00
         Total                                                          40.00          34.20          32.43




3.4 Revised Components:
In September 1999 under an amendment to the Loan Agreement, undisbursed proceeds in the amount of
US$5.7 million were reallocated to support earthquake reconstruction in Colombia's coffee-growing
region.    Under this same amendment, unspent proceeds from three other Bank loans were also



                                                        - 2 -

reprogrammed to support activities related to this earthquake reconstruction, a new earthquake
reconstruction component was added to all four projects, and the project closing date of all four loans was
extended to December 31, 2002 to facilitate the use of funds for this reconstruction.1 This amendment
responded in part to the lack of resources at the national level, which continued to affect the overall
financial performance of the Urban Environmental Management Project. Three subsequent reallocations of
proceeds to cover disbursement overruns within the project's subcomponents were requested and approved
by the Bank in a notice to the Borrower in February 2000, August 2000 and December 2001.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
This project, prepared in 1994 and 1995, was approved in January 1996 and became effective in July of
the same year. The project objectives--aimed at complementing the country's ongoing efforts in improving
environmental management--were consistent with the CAS, which recommended that the MoE design
ways to carry out its activities through local governments. As reflected in the Technical Annex, at that
time Colombia had approved Law 99 (1993), one of the most advanced environmental legislations in Latin
America, and was starting to use some of the mechanisms that were to become recommended tools in
environmental management a few years later, such as the decentralization of environmental management,
use of economic instruments to complement the "command and control" structure, and the use of
environmental education and working with NGOs as important elements in environmental management. In
this context, both the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), as well as a number
of bilateral donors, saw an opportunity to provide the support the Government of Colombia needed, at a
key point in time, to follow up with the implementation of its environmental protection and conservation
policy and strategy.

The Urban Environmental Management Project also complemented Colombia's other "environmental"
projects by focusing only on urban environmental management. At the time, the Bank was supporting
national forest policy, watershed rehabilitation and parks management through a Natural Resource
Management Project (Ln. 3692-CO, FY94), and the IDB, through its Environmental Management Program
(FY95), was providing technical assistance, including training and environmental education, to
MinAmbiente and ten participating CARs. In addition, the project was prepared at a time when the Bank
was taking stock of its experience in assisting its borrowers in preparing national environmental strategies,
and was providing recommendations for integrating the urban environment more effectively. The design of
the Urban Environmental Management Project--the first environmental management project in the region
to focus solely on urban areas--reflected the lessons learned from this exercise. Component One of the
project focused on strengthening urban environmental management within the MoE, so that the Ministry
could provide broader support to smaller cities.        The project's second component was designed to
strengthen the newly formed environmental agencies in Colombia's four largest cities, which, in accordance
with Law 99, were given the responsibility for environmental management within their borders in
December 1993. The project, therefore, was very opportune because it provided a jump start to what
otherwise could have been a much lengthier process of building up these agencies as viable entities. This
second component included the basic activities that would allow the development of the respective agency
as a fully functioning entity from legal, technical and financial points of view.




1
 Although the amendment extended the closing date of these four projects, it was expected that the December 31,
2002 closing date would apply only to the earthquake reconstruction activities and the original project activities of
the four loans would be completed by their initially agreed closing dates.           In addition, the earthquake
reconstruction activities were implemented separately from the four projects and an ICR, documenting the
execution of these activities, has been completed.



                                                      - 3 -

During project preparation, the project risks inherent in implementation by a new, relatively inexperienced
MoE as well as new urban environmental agencies were well assessed. The preparation process involved a
broader consultation with non-governmental and other organizations involved with environmental
management. It was also identified that these new institutions would be subject to political changes.

However, two aspects that perhaps needed more attention during the project's preparation were (i) a more
thorough analysis of the financial capabilities of the implementing agencies and financial flows, and (ii) the
inclusion of some investment activities for the later years of the project. On the former, the Technical
Annex mentions that there was "evidence that funds have been allocated by each of the four urban
administrations and by MinAmbiente (MoE) to the activities to be carried out under the project (at least)
during the first year." In fact, at entry, the funding (both amounts and timely flow) was not identified as a
risk. Again, with the advantage of hindsight, it appears that the time horizon of the "guarantee" of funds
was too short. On the latter point, by including some investment activities in the later project years that
produced tangible results, the project could have, perhaps, generated more political support in some of the
jurisdictions, thus avoiding some of the funding problems and strengthening the overall environmental
management in the respective jurisdiction. The preparation team's initial recommendation of having a
follow-on investment project at the conclusion of the first TA project did not materialize due to later
readjustment of the Bank's lending program.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of the Environment (MoE) to provide policy advice and
technical assistance to Colombian Government and urban centers. The project has played a vital role in
increasing the capacity of MoE to develop the environmental policies and strategies needed at the national
level to support the Government's policy of sustainable development. For example, the project financed (i)
key diagnostic studies, such as the State of the Environment of Colombian Cities; (ii) tools for
environmental management, such as Solid Waste Management and Land Use Planning Guidelines; (iii)
training of MoE officials as well as officials of regional and municipal governments on topics related to
environmental management and sustainable development; and (iv) implementation of information systems,
both for decision making and for public awareness, such as Observatorios Ambientales.2 As a result,
urban environmental management, in the context of the quality of life in urban areas, is a priority for the
new Administration. Moreover, the MoE is much better equipped now, compared with six years ago, to
respond in a timely and technically solid manner to the challenges of the new priorities established by the
new government.

The project also played an important role in strengthening the capacity of the MoE to support
municipalities in the development of their own environmental plans. For example, the project financed the
preparation of 17 municipal environmental plans that, in turn, increased the institutional capacity of
municipal environmental units, public service firms and community organizations. This support led to the
Ministry's development of an integrated environmental management system, implemented as a pilot in 6
municipalities. Currently, utilizing the Ministry's own resources, an additional five municipalities are
implementing the system.




2
 Under the "Environmental Observatories" pilot, an interactive observation information system was developed to monitor
urban environmental quality indicators in various Colombian cities. This system enabled the evaluation of urban
environmental management with active public participation.




                                                            - 4 -

Strengthening environmental management agencies (EMAs) in the urban centers of Bogotá, Cali,
Medellín, and Barranquilla. Compared with the situation at the project's inception, there has been a
significant increase in the environmental management capacity in the four largest urban centers of
Colombia. Although it was with a varied degree of success, the project did support the creation of viable
environmental agencies in Bogotá, Cali, Medellín (Valle de Aburrá), and Barranquilla. These agencies
played a key role, for example, in the preparation of environmental sections of the Planes de Ordenamiento
Territorial, an important, medium- to long-term planning tool in the country. Studies financed by the
project defined solutions to known environmental issues, such as the water quality of the caños (canals) in
Barranquilla, the management of construction debris in Cali, seismic risks in Medellín, and the use of
public space in Bogotá.

Both at the national and local levels, the project financed a significant number of environmental education
and public awareness activities, as well as professional training on environmental topics of government
officials, private sector, and NGOs. It has been shown that such educational and awareness-raising
activities have a significant, long-term impact.

4.2 Outputs by components:
1. Component 1. Design and Implementation of a Technical Assistance Strategy through MoE/DAHP
for Cities of Less than One Million Inhabitants
Subcomponent 1 (a) -- Design of MoE's Technical Assistance Strategy. This component was intended
to assist the Ministry of Environment (MoE) in designing and implementing a strategy to improve
environmental management in urban areas, by preparing environmental action plans in a number of cities of
national interest and by providing technical support to the Autonomous Regional Corporations (CARs),
departments and municipalities. From 1996 - 1999, MoE concentrated on the management of water
resources, solid wastes and air pollution, resulting in the preparation of new or revised guidelines and
standards for the management of water, solid wastes (including hospital wastes) and air pollution. The
most important achievements in these areas have been development of a framework for the control of
emissions from mobile sources, structuring an integrated solid and hazardous, including hospital, waste
management program, developing a ten-year wastewater management plan, and developing various tools
for urban environmental management. During the last three years of project implementation, 2000-2002,
MoE has shifted its emphasis toward the formulation, implementation and monitoring of urban
environmental policy.
Subcomponent 1 (b) -- Development of Local Planning Tools and Planning Exercises. Since the
project's inception in 1996, the project has supported 17 municipalities in the development of environmental
action plans, through, inter alia, the promotion of citizen participation, the development of projects aimed
at improving specific urban environmental problems, the development of POTs (Land Use Plans - Planes
de Ordenamiento Territorial) and strengthening environmental education.            More recently, using the
experience gained in developing these environmental plans, MoE has developed a Municipal Environmental
Management System (SIGAM), and played a leadership role in its application, as pilots, in six
municipalities. Also, an important action under this component was the publication in 1998 of guidelines
on the inclusion of local environmental management aspects in the POT. The guidelines, complemented by
workshops on their use, were directed toward mayors, municipal authorities, CARs, NGOs and community
associations. To assess the usefulness of this program, a study was carried out to determine the degree to
which environmental criteria have been incorporated into the POTs. More than 50% of the country's
municipalities (600) have had their POT approved by the respective CAR.
Subcomponent 1 (c) -- Sectoral, Economic and Institutional Studies. In total, 40 studies were carried
out under this subcomponent: 16 corresponded to urban environmental policy, nine to air pollution, six to
solid wastes, five to the Canal del Dique and four to water resources. A majority of the studies (34 in total)
were directed toward environmental issues of national importance and of a more general application, rather



                                                     - 5 -

than to problems exclusive to a particular region or locality. During the period 1996-98, most of the
studies were of a general nature, such as reviews of previous studies, or addressed a specific environmental
issue, such as the Doña Juana sanitary landfill and the environmental component of the National
Development Plan (1998). Since 1999, the studies have been oriented to providing municipal authorities
environmental management instruments with a special emphasis placed on air pollution, and solid waste
and water resources management.
Subcomponent 1 (d) -- Training. This subcomponent was intended to provide training to MoE's staff, as
well as to public officials and community leaders involved in environmental management at the national,
regional and local levels. During the project's first years, many of the activities responded to the training
needs of the CARs' officials in the development of Local Environment Action Plans and Local Agenda 21.
In addition, Ministry personnel attended seminars and courses in Colombia as well as other countries.
Since 1999, training activities have been more focused toward environmental NGOs, municipal authorities,
civil society associations, education centers and community leaders.               Throughout the project's
implementation, 51 workshops were carried out focusing on solid wastes, public space, protection of
microbasins, as well as environmental management aspects in small urban communities. In the last two
years of the project, the Ministry has sponsored various training workshops for municipal authorities, the
private sector, and civil society representatives to foster improved environmental management strategies.
Workshop topics have included application of the SIGAM and integrated management of water bodies and
solid waste. These recent training initiatives have also supported the implementation of some of the
environmental management instruments developed under the project, contributing to the consolidation of the
SIGAM model, as well as initiating the Plan Decenal para el Manejo de Aguas Residuales, the
management of solid wastes and hospital wastes, and the development of guidelines for improving urban
quality of life in Colombia.
Subcomponent 1 (e) -- Information System. The objective of this subcomponent was to assist MoE in
defining the urban section of the National Environmental Information System and an implementation
strategy, as well as developing and implementing a management information system to support the
planning, management, monitoring and evaluation of its urban programs. Although in 2001 an interactive
environmental observation system (Observatorios Ambientales, see footnote 2) was developed, the goal of
establishing a National Environmental Information System was not reached by the project's closing date.

2. Component 2. Institutional Strengthening of the Environmental Management Agencies (EMAs) of
the Country's Four Main Urban Centers
This component aimed to strengthen the institutional and technical capacity of the urban environmental
management agencies (EMAs) of Bogotá, Cali, Medellín (Valle de Aburrá), and Barranquilla. In order to
support the EMAs in carrying out the environmental management functions specified in Title IV of Law
99, the project supported the following subcomponents: (a) the detailed design of the organizational
structure and administrative procedures of these four EMAs, as well as the establishment of mechanisms to
facilitate intra- and inter-jurisdictional coordination and community participation; (b) the preparation of
urban environmental strategies and action plans; (c) the preparation of pre-feasibility, feasibility and other
studies for potential environmental investments identified as a priority in the city's strategy and action plan;
(d) the preparation of the environmental regulatory framework, including licensing procedures, emission
and ambient quality standards, guidelines for the application of user charges and pollution fees, and the
definition of mechanisms for citizen participation; (e) training programs for professional staff within
EMAs, staff from utilities and other units within the municipal government and related CARs, community
leaders and the general public; (f) the design and implementation of environmental education campaigns to
raise public awareness and promote public involvement in urban environmental management; and (g) the
implementation of an Urban Environmental Information System to help the EMAs, in particular, and the
municipal administrations, in general, plan, manage and monitor their programs.




                                                      - 6 -

DADIMA (Departamento Admnistrativo Distrital de Medio Ambiente, Barranquilla). At the project's
outset, DADIMA, the Department of Environment of Barranquilla, was a relatively weak agency due to its
lack of trained personnel, resources, infrastructure and an information base. To define the agency's
structure and develop institutional coordination mechanisms, DADIMA carried out six studies and
prepared manuals directed toward designing an administrative and financial strengthening plan, developing
an information system for internal management, presenting alternatives for an institutional model for
environmental management, and designing a financial sustainability plan. In an effort to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of inter-sectoral and inter-jurisdictional coordination, DADIMA signed 23
agreements with diverse organizations, including universities, clinics, NGOs and the private sector, with
nine of the agreements pertaining to mobile-source emissions diagnostic centers. At the project's closure
some ambiguities still persist with respect to the responsibilities and jurisdictions of the agencies in charge
of environmental management in Barranquilla. One important reason, unfortunately repeated in other
municipalities, was the change in the municipal administration in January 2001. The new administration
brought with it new priorities, new approaches and, most importantly, new personnel in key management
positions. During the ICR mission, it became apparent that the administration was becoming aware of the
importance of adequate environmental management in the city and surrounding region. More encouraging
was also the fact that the city government was using the studies carried out under this project to define the
structure of the environmental agency, its sources of funds, and its planning and operational
responsibilities.

Amongst the achievements during the project's lifetime are (i) the environmental management plan for the
District of Barranquilla, that defines the environmental priorities in the District, including priority
investments. Subsequently, this environmental action plan was incorporated in its entirety in Barranquilla's
POT (Land Use Plan), an important initiative in the planning efforts of the National Government; (ii) nine
action plans, addressing these identified priorities (e.g., Administrative and Financial Strengthening Plan
and Participation Plan for Land Planning in Barranquilla); (iii) increased community participation in
environmental management through meetings with politicians in 18 of Barranquilla's 21 neighborhoods, and
distribution of pamphlets on "our daily environment" in two neighborhoods; (iv) community consensus on
environmental agendas, resulting in the implementation of 25% of the agreed agendas; (v) implementation
of the environmental management plan for the market of Barranquilla; and (vi) greater participation of
DADIMA's officials in the development of action plans and the dissemination of yearly management
results.  Also, with project's financing, DADIMA prepared pre-feasibility and feasibility studies to
determine the investments for inclusion in the environmental management plan, including (i) feasibility
studies for the site selection of a solid waste disposal facility; (ii) alternatives for the environmental
recovery of the "caños" in Barranquilla, and (iii) a study of the aquifers in the region. During the period
1998 ­ 2001, DADIMA increased its "environmental quality investments" (i.e., its non-routine
expenditures) from $1.478 million Colombian pesos in 1998 to $8.0 million in 2001, with the majority of
these investments directed toward the prevention of air and noise pollution (41.5%) and environmental
management (39.4%).

DADIMA was the only EMA, out of the four, that was able to design an effective mechanism for collecting
tasas retributivas, a charge for wastewater discharges, and also informing the community of the benefits
that these charges generated. With respect to DADIMA's enforcement activities, between 1996 and 2000 it
sanctioned 624 violations. The fines varied significantly from year to year, e.g., $38 million pesos in 1999
and $1 million pesos in 2002. DADIMA also supported the introduction of cleaner production mechanisms
and its contribution toward conversion of the industrial sector in Barranquilla was significant; 33% of large
firms and 67% of small and medium-sized firms underwent a reconversion process between 1996 and
2000.




                                                     - 7 -

As part of the training activities, DADIMA signed six agreements with local universities for training on
environmental topics and for supporting research activities. For example, a program of short-term courses
on topics such as environmental legislation, public administration and finance, urban environmental
management, environmental audits, and monitoring gases from fixes and mobile sources was carried out by
the Universidad del Norte. Although these training activities contributed significantly to increasing the
environmental capacity in the region, given the turnover of personnel, the direct impact on DADIMA's
personnel was lower than expected.

In 1998, DADIMA initiated an important education campaign, the Program of Environmental Education
and Citizen Participation (POEMA), which was developed with various community and city education
groups within Barranquilla and intended to foster public awareness of urban environmental dynamics, as
well as a greater commitment among the public to work toward finding a solution to environmental
problems. It is estimated that this program contributed to: (i) improved environmental awareness of
approximately 20% of the population; (ii) the mobilization of 30% of NGOs to participate in the
implementation of the program; (iii) the training of 500 community leaders in the development and
execution of community environmental education projects; (iv) benefiting 30% of the city's neighborhoods
with environmental education projects; (v) training 150 primary and secondary school teachers; and (vi)
imparting education programs to 1,000 preschool children, and 3,000 primary and 3,000 secondary school
students.

Less successful was the implementation of the Air Quality Management System in the city. For close to
US$1 million (with 50% to be financed with loan proceeds and 50% to be financed by the municipality),
DADIMA contracted the acquisition of a turnkey system for monitoring and improving the ambient air
quality in the city. The contract, consisting of the supply and installation of the equipment and a predictive
model, its operation for one year, and training of staff, encountered problems due to late payments by
DADIMA to the supplier.        With the payment problems recently solved after a successful mediation
between the contractor and the municipality, contract implementation was resumed and operation of the air
quality management system is anticipated in June 2003.

DAMA (Departamento Administrativo de Medio Ambiente ­ Santa Fe de Bogotá). At the project's
outset, DAMA had set as its primary goals within the project, the development of inter-institutional
coordination mechanisms with other District agencies and the clarification of its responsibilities with
respect to the CAR.      DAMA found itself evolving from an entity that oversaw and developed the
Environmental Management Plan for the Capital District, to a fully fledged agency responsible for all
aspects of environmental management. To improve the effectiveness and efficiency of its internal and
inter-institutional management processes, the project financed activities such as:           (i) management
procedures and instruments corresponding to the institution's strategic plan (in 2000); (ii) a manual for
contract monitoring (1996-97); (iii) Environmental Information System (2001); (iv) tools for personnel
selection (1996-97); and (v) financial tools, such as environmental charges for atmospheric emissions and
water. In addition, the project financed a number of environmental management improvement and related
plans, such as environmental management plan for the capital district, POT, training plans for personnel,
master plan for the city's solid waste, master plan on the management of the Río Bogotá, master plan for
the Entrenubes park, environmental guidelines (e.g., guidelines to DAMA's services for the management of
infrastructure works with a minimum environmental impact for the Environmental Excellence Program). In
addition, in the past DAMA negotiated its budget with the mayor, each year. Recently, DAMA has
established an environmental fund that receives the income from the environmental services it provides as
well other sources, such as tasas retributivas. It is anticipated that in this way, DAMA will become
financially self-sustainable.




                                                      - 8 -

Combining its own resources with funds from this project and a transport project, also financed by the
World Bank, DAMA has acquired a turnkey Noise Monitoring Network. In its first phase, the objective of
the network is to reduce the noise in the neighborhood of the Bogota's international airport and, later on, to
monitor and reduce the noise in other city's critical areas. Additional mitigation and prevention activities
have included a diagnostic of the management of toxic substances (1999-2000), development of a
hydrogeological model of aquifers, design and implementation of an air quality monitoring network,
technical assistance to small and medium-sized companies on cleaner production, and the development of
sectoral and city's neighborhoods environmental agendas. The project has had an important impact on
DAMA's available tools for addressing the city's environmental problems, including noise, air, solid wastes,
coordination with other municipal departments, preparation of the POT, and recovery plans for public
areas.

It has been estimated that DAMA has implemented and/or made use of approximately two-thirds of the
plans, regulations, and program guides developed under this component. For example, it has implemented
two of the seven environmental actions plans developed: the POT for the district and the training plan for
its officials; and 17 of the 18 program guidelines developed. DAMA also played a key role in the
development of local environmental agendas, all of which are under implementation. These agendas,
defined by consultations amongst local administration officials, NGOs, and civic and community
organizations, prioritize the environmental issues and the management strategy for solving them in the
respective part of the city. To complement these local agendas, DAMA developed environmental agendas
for each productive sector, which provide the methodology to follow in order to identify and characterize
the environmental impacts by productive sector type.

DAMA invested in a number of pre-feasibility and feasibility studies, accounting for almost 33% of the
project's total budget, in the areas of water, air and noise pollution, solid and hazardous waste management,
promotion of clean production, urban environmental management, and land planning, among others. These
studies have had a strong impact on DAMA's activities, leading to specific actions to counter
environmental problems, such as the development of an Air Quality Network, the reconversion of vehicles
to natural gas use, the implementation of the Noise Monitoring Network in the El Dorado Airport, and the
Clean Production Program aimed at micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.

The project also financed the development of norms to prevent, control and mitigate the city's
environmental problems, that were then used by DAMA to monitor the compliance of industry, trade and
services. For monitoring and enforcement, DAMA has relied on an average of 10 inspectors during the last
five years, and the number of sanctions per inspector has increased from two in 1996 to 20 in 2001. The
financing provided by the project has supported the development of guidelines for environmental impact
assessments, and has helped DAMA in significantly reducing the time required to obtain an environmental
license. With respect to cleaner production advisory services, through the ACERCAR program, DAMA
provided technical assistance to 1,190 firms between 1996 and 2001.

Approximately eight percent of the project's budget was directed toward the training of DAMA officials,
officials of other agencies, and the community. From 1996 through 2001, approximately 66 percent of
DAMA staff received some type of training in the 143 courses, seminars and workshops carried out,
covering a wide variety of themes, such as environmental policy and economics, urban environmental
management, environmental rights, environmental education, urban and regional planning, natural resource
management, environmental engineering, solid waste management, cleaner production, eco-efficiency,
water resources management, disaster prevention, and tannery management.

Through the project's financing, DAMA has developed a series of strategies and programs aimed at


                                                       - 9 -

increasing community awareness on various environmental topics, achieving greater participation in
problem definition and solutions. Environmental education programs have included: (i) a solid waste
management project in public and private schools; (ii) a wetland project; (iii) design of an environmental
route in the district; and (iv) promoting a "culture of no trash" in three localities. In addition, awareness
programs that emphasize the environment as a fundamental aspect toward quality of life have been carried
out via the internet (DAMA's web site), television programs and campaigns, and publications.

The Environmental Information System (Sistema de Información Ambiental ­ SIA), whose first phase of
development was financed by this project, integrates DAMA's administrative, legal, technical, and
management information, and includes information on the air quality network, noise and solid wastes. It is
also an integral part of Bogota's georeferenced information system. SIA, when fully functional, will
provide a "single window" for environmental information to the citizens of the city, as well as provide
DAMA with a management tool that will facilitate planning and decision making. Although complete
functionality is not expected until a second phase is carried out (with DAMA's own resources), the system
has had already an impact in the day-to-day operation of DAMA and its clients. Under this second phase,
SIA will include topics such as the management of toxic and dangerous substances, and of packing
materials.

AMVA (Área Metroplitana del Valle de Aburrá). AMVA was created in 1980 to oversee the territorial
planning and development of the municipalities of Barbosa, Giradota, Copacabana, Bello, Medellín, Itaguí,
Sabaneta, La Estrella and Caldas. In 1995, when this administrative agency was assuming its role of
urban environmental authority in accordance with Law 99, the CAR for Central Antioquia (Corantioquia)
was also created with jurisdiction over 80 municipalities. At this same time, the government of Antioquia
created the Departmental Environmental Council, made up of representatives of the Departmental
Government (Gobernación), CAR, AMVA, environmental NGOs, and research centers, with the
responsibility of coordinating environmental policies and joining technical, economic, and logistical efforts.

To support the development of its environmental group and to develop inter-institutional coordination
mechanisms, AMVA prepared two studies: (i) to define a system to collect financial resources, and (ii)
alternative design options for an urban environmental management agency. These studies, however, have
not been implemented.       Using the project's resources, AMVA also contracted the preparation of a
document on cleaner production technologies, the design of an environmental management plan for small
and medium-sized companies, the design of an environmental information center, and a document
identifying areas at risk for natural disasters. In the Aburrá Valley, where pollution by mobile sources is
responsible for more than 70 percent of the region's air pollution, the project supported the design of a air
quality monitoring program, and the subsequent restarting and upgrading of an air quality monitoring
network in the Valley. The project also financed the preparation of nineteen local environmental agendas
that defined the environmental problems as well as projects to address them within the respective territory,
agendas that were then used in the preparation of POT in each municipality of the metropolitan region.

With respect to the preparation of norms and procedures, a manual on legal procedures regarding the use of
renewable natural resources was published and the metropolitan environmental legislation was reviewed
and updated. In addition, AMVA prepared various publications on environmental topics, such as the
Aburrá Valley's flora, fauna and insects. In 1999, AMVA signed a cleaner production agreement with the
representatives of the industrial sectors of the Aburrá Valley, with emphasis to the southern municipalities
of the region. In 2001, AMVA signed an agreement with the northern productive sector of the Aburrá
Valley, through which 17 firms are participating in a reconversion process.

The project also supported the design and implementation of community education campaigns, formal


                                                     - 10 -

education programs and other cultural and educational activities. In addition, AMVA contracted different
universities to provide specialized training to its officials and municipal representatives in such areas like
project evaluation and management, wastewater discharge fees (tasas retributivas), cleaner production,
solid wastes, wastewater treatment, regional urban planning, air pollution, and environmental legislation.
Approximately, 194 individuals received training between 1998 and 2000.

DAGMA (Departamento de Gestión de Medio Ambiente, Cali) was created in 1994, as the coordinating
authority responsible for guiding Cali's urban environmental management that sought the harmonization of
environmental activities of the public and private sectors, and defined the actions that would strengthen its
authority, primarily through the development of plans and programs and the Municipal Development Plan.
Thus, the project's design coincided with the functions and objectives already established for the institution.
Given that these were defined at the project's outset, DAGMA did not find it necessary to carry out any
studies to support its institutional design and administrative processes until 1999. At that point, DAGMA
contracted out 6 studies on financial sustainability, the establishment and operation of a computerized filing
system, a management and financial evaluation of its environmental education and planning units, and an
internal evaluation on its protection and control units. Although, these studies identified, for example, the
legal mechanisms available for collecting its own financial resources, DAGMA was not able to implement
any of these mechanisms. Also, DAGMA is a member of an environmental planning committee for Cali's
21 comunas that, each year, prioritizes five environmental projects.                  DAGMA coordinates
inter-institutional projects with public and private municipal agencies, including one dedicated to
environmental improvements in the metallurgical sector, and one for the operation and control of gas
emissions.

Through the preparation of environmental action plans and strategies, DAGMA sought to formulate the
short, medium, and long-term environmental strategy for Cali, including greater community participation in
urban environmental planning and management. Between 1997 ­ 2000, DAGMA carried out a number of
studies, such as updating its three-year environmental management plan (1998-2000), mechanisms for
cooperation with neighboring municipalities, design of an integrated management and treatment plan for
solid wastes in Santa Elena, design of an environmental management plan for the conservation of water
resources, education plan for the recycling of solid wastes, and an induction manual on environmental
management for small and medium-sized companies. At project's closure, the three-year environmental
management plan was 80% implemented, and an environmental education plan was initiated. As part of
the project, DAGMA coordinated the preparation of 21 environmental agendas with each of the city's
comunas, involving the communities in their preparation, and also helped prepare the environmental section
of Cali's POT. In addition, DAGMA prepared 10 feasibility studies to identify the required investments
associated with its environmental management plan and the studies it had carried out. Although these
feasibility studies identified crucial environmental investments for the city, these investments were not
implemented.

DAGMA also prioritized the definition of legal instruments and regulations, as well as the strengthening of
its legal unit. The legal studies carried out permitted the implementation of an Environmental Declaration
that 120 companies were urged to endorse and that was designed to be more comprehensive than obtaining
an environmental license since it was not only a command and control instrument, but also a tool for
monitoring and planning. DAGMA also made advances through the design of procedures to collect tariffs
to control emissions produced by mobile sources and to manage hospital wastes.

In an effort to provide environmental management training to its staff as well as community leaders and the
public in general, DAGMA established a post-graduate environmental management program with a
university, in which 35 of its staff participated and of these 14 received a degree. In addition, those trained


                                                     - 11 -

taught other staff members within DAGMA as well as staff in both the mayor's and accounting office.
Although most of DAGMA's officials who received training left the institution in June 2001 as part of a
major downsizing of the municipal government, the Bank was informed during the ICR mission that plans
are now being prepared to rehire a significant number of these individuals.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
While the country's capacity for urban environmental management was almost nonexistent at the project's
outset, today there has been a significant increase in the institutional capacity of the country's
environmental authorities. As reflected below, this institutional development has been realized to varying
extents within these agencies. Although capacity building within some agencies has been hampered by the
political climate and economic situation, all are currently making use of project outputs.

MoE. The project has played a strong role in the development and implementation of local environmental
planning instruments in 17 municipalities, which have strengthened the institutional capacity of municipal
environmental units, public service firms and community organizations. The group of cities that received
technical assistance during project implementation are representative of the country as a whole and will
provide a good basis to replicate these experiences country-wide. In addition, the project has been
instrumental in supporting a shift in MoE's environmental policies, which in 1996 almost exclusively
supported natural resource protection, toward the implementation of an urban-regional management policy
for the country's environmental resources. The project has also contributed to strengthening the Ministry
and particularly the General Directorate for Sectoral Analysis in undertaking new areas of analysis and
management, particularly in the areas of prevention, management and control of air and noise pollution,
clean technologies, and urban transport.

DADIMA. The project has supported the design of DADIMA, as well as the development of institutional
coordination mechanisms, but their impact has been weak given the difficulties that persist in the
jurisdictions and competencies of agencies responsible for environmental management in Barranquilla. In
addition, there has been a lack of coordination between DADIMA and the Atlantic CAR. Despite these
setbacks, the project helped build an important technical capacity within the city, as well as an important
environmental knowledge and diagnostic base and enforcement mechanisms nonexistent prior to 1996.
DADIMA was also able to play a large role in reaching consensus among communities on their
environmental agendas, as well as fostering community participation in the development of the POT and
development plans.

DAMA. In the case of DAMA, the project has supported the agency's consolidation as an environmental
authority, where today it effectively applies environmental management tools, carries out its mission in a
favorable political climate, has adequate inter-institutional coordination, and fosters community
participation in diverse diagnostic processes and environmental action plans.           DAMA, utilizing the
environmental action plans as well as the pre-feasibility and feasibility studies carried out under the project,
has defined its environmental priorities and developed environmental programs, including the development
of an air quality and noise monitoring network and cleaner production programs. DAMA has also made an
important effort in defining a legal framework and regulations, in which it has been able to exercise its role
in inspection, monitoring, and enforcement.



                                                     - 12 -

AMVA. Although the project enabled AMVA to carry out a diagnosis of the region's environmental
problems, design management plans, train officials within the entity, set environmental standards, and
design an information system, the institutional development impact within the entity was moderate. A
study prepared to design the urban environment institutional structure for the region was not applied, nor
were any actions implemented resulting from the project's studies. In addition, a coordinated program for
environmental education and an environmental information system were not implemented.

DAGMA. DAGMA made the greatest strides in designing and implementing community environmental
education programs as well as an Environmental Declaration program--an integrated environmental
management tool adopted by firms. Even though the component's results were favorable in terms of
anticipated results, the results were weak with respect to strengthening institutional capacity. DAGMA's
design was well established at the project's outset, and those studies carried out under the project to
strengthen the entity, specifically regarding its financial sustainability, were not implemented. In addition,
even though institutional coordination mechanisms were defined under the project, only a few have been
implemented. DAGMA has particularly been affected by decreasing budgets (due to the economic crisis)
and changes in key management and staff in the later years of project implementation.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Economic situation. At the project's outset the country benefited from a stable economic environment.
However, the project was implemented during one of the worst economic crises the country has
experienced, with the country's public policy priorities directed toward controlling the fiscal deficit as well
as the war. Although the project provided the first loan proceeds for urban environmental technical
assistance in Colombia, counterpart funding was often a constraint, creating delays in project
implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Political instability. The multiple changes in government ministers, officials, and project coordinators as
well as technical staff has led to several changes in the government's environmental priorities, affecting
continuity and execution. Between 1996 and 1999, MoE was restructured three times, with the project
placed under the direction of a different unit within the Ministry each time. For example, initially the
Directorate of Human Settlements and Population in MoE was in charge of the project, but by 1999 the
responsibility was shifted to the General Sectoral Environment Directorate. In addition, many of the EMA
staff who received training under the project are no longer working for the environmental authority. For
example, in DADIMA, where between 1996 and 2002 there were six different directors (see Table 2),
ninety percent of its staff that received training during implementation are no longer with the agency.




                                                       - 13 -

Table 2. Turnover in the Leadership of the MoE and EMAs

Agency                               Function                  Period              Officeholder
Ministry of Environment         Minister of Environment      1996-1997        José Vicente Mogollón
                                                             1997-1998       Eduardo Verano de la Rosa
                                                             1998-2002        Juan Mayr Maldonado
                                                             2002-present    Cecilia Rodríguez González
                                      Director               1996-1997        Patricia Lizarazo Vaca
                                                             1997-1998       Alonso Peñaranda Ibarra
                                                             1998-1999        Carlos Manuel Herrera
                                                             1999-2002        Gerardo Viña Vizcaíno
                                 Project Coordinator         1996-1998       Alonso Peñaranda Ibarra
                                                             1998-1999         Edgar Fernando Erazo
                                                             1999-2001        Gladys Rodríguez Pérez
                                                             2001-present     Santiago Villegas Yepes
Barranquillia ­ DADIMA                 Mayor                 1996-1998              Edgar George
                                                             1998-2001            Bernardo Hoyos
                                                             2001-present         Humberto Caiafa
                                  General Director           1996-1997             Rodolfo Cepeda
                                                             1997-1998           Sigifredo Agudelo
                                                             1998-2000            Adalberto Sereno
                                                             2000-2001             Manuel Herrera
                                                             2001-2002          Henry Mauri Ardila
                                                             2002-present      Alvaro Diazgranados
                                 Project Coordinator         1996-2002        Maria Victoria Callejas
Bogotá ­ DAMA                          Mayor                 1996-1997            Antanas Mockus
                                                             1997-1998             Paul Brhomber
                                                             1998-2000            Enrique Peñalosa
                                                             2000-present         Antanas Mockus
                                  General Director           1996-1997             Eduardo Uribe
                                                             1997-2000        Manuel Felipe Olivera
                                                             2000-present           Julia Miranda
                                 Project Coordinator         1996-1997          Guillermo Gonzalez
                                                             1997-2002        Luis Fernando Gonzalez
Medellin ­ AMVA                        Mayor                 1996-1998             Serjio Naranjo
                                                             1998-2001         Juan Gomez Martinez
                                                             2001-present      Luis Perez Gutierrez
                                  General Director           1996-1998            Mauricio Duque
                                                             1998-2001              Oscar Suarez
                                                             2001-present      Omar Hoyos Agudelo
                                 Project Coordinator         1996-1998           Hector Bermudez
                                                             1998-2000            Francisco Zapata
                                                             2000-2002               Astrid Gil
Cali ­ DAGMA                           Mayor                 1996-1998           Mauricio Guzman
                                                             1998-2001              Ricardo Cobo
                                                             2001-present      Jhon Maro Rodriguez
                                  General Director           1996-1998          Margarita Londoño
                                                             1998-1999          Juanita Bernal Leon
                                                                1999         Maria Mercedes Montalvo
                                                             1999-2000            Julian Sepulveda
                                                             2000-2001             Alvaro Zapata
                                                             2001-2002         Angela Mariz Salazar
                                                                2002                 Hugo Reyes
                                                                2002               Felipe Carvajal
                                                             2002-present         Sergio Castañeda
                                 Project Coordinator         1996-2002            Gustavo Barona
                                                                2002          Hector Chaparro Velez




                                                   - 14 -

Counterpart funding. In the five years of project implementation, a clarification of the legal framework,
authorizing resources for urban environmental management (especially for the EMAs) was not achieved.
A legal decision was made in 1997, shortly after the project was initiated, that favored financing regional
environmental management agencies to the detriment of funding earmarked for the four larger urban areas
of the country. The EMAs, thus, had to reach an agreement with these regional agencies (CARs) for a
portion of their counterpart funding.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
EMAs did not take advantage of economies of scale. EMAs did not share their experiences or products
with each other during project implementation and thus, were not able to benefit from the lessons learned
among the agencies from similar studies and programs carried out during implementation. Rather than
building on shared experiences, studies and programs were at times duplicated.

MoE did not play role of coordinator as initially planned. During project preparation, it was anticipated
that MoE would facilitate overall project coordination, providing technical and administrative guidance to
the EMAs during implementation. However, in the project's initial years, the EMAs progressed more
rapidly than the Ministry in carrying out their work plans. The Bank, thus, took over this coordination
role, providing guidance to the EMAs in their preparation of annual work plans and review of consultant
terms of reference and selection processes.

Adequacy of internal control structure. The auditors, in their review of both the 2000 and 2001 Audit
Reports, noted deficiencies in the implementing agency's internal control structure and raised qualified
opinions with respect to the information presented in the project's statement of expenditures (SOEs) and
statement of the Special Account. Due to the seriousness of the observations raised by the Auditors in the
2001 Audit Report, in which qualified opinions were also raised regarding the implementing agency's
financial statements, the Bank carried out in 2002 a separate supervision mission comprised of two
Financial Management Specialists and a Project Official to review the observations raised with the
implementing agency and the Contraloría General de la República (CGR). In addition, the Bank contracted
an audit firm to conduct an independent, special audit of the Project's statements of expenditures and
reconciliation of the Project's Special Account for calendar year 2001. In their report, the audit firm did
not find any issues, and found that the majority of observations raised by the CGR were due to the Ministry
not providing information to the CGR or carrying out corrections in a timely manner.

Compliance with covenants. MinAmbiente has generally complied with all covenants under the Loan
Agreement, with the exception of covenants 3.01(d) and 5.01(b) which have been partially complied with.
Under covenant 3.01(d), the Borrower was to maintain the existence of a Technical Working Group until
the environmental information system (Component 1(e)) and the activities under Component 2 were
completed. An informal Technical Working Group comprised of project coordinators from the EMAs and
MinAmbiente was formed during project implementation. However, this covenant was only partially met
as the environmental information system was not implemented due to changes in the Ministry's computer
system. Under covenant 5.01(b), the Ministry was responsible for ensuring that each EMA operated in
accordance with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices, under the supervision of
qualified management and with competent staff. The budgetary constraints faced by the EMAs as well as
the political climate hindered the full compliance of this latter covenant and resulted in varied institutional
capacities among these agencies (as referenced in section 4.5).

Contract management. The financial constraints faced by DADIMA, in particular, delayed its meeting its
contractual obligations for the installation and operation of an air quality monitoring network in



                                                    - 15 -

Barranquilla. These constraints led to a suspension in contract payments of over two years. Recently,
after a successful contract mediation between the contractor and the municipality in which reparations were
granted to the contractor for the delay, the contractor has been compensated for the installation of the air
quality monitoring equipment and operation of the network is anticipated in June 2003.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Counterpart financing was often not provided in a timely manner during project implementation due to
national and local budget constraints, resulting in delays in project implementation.

Disbursement percentage structure difficult for new agencies.           The loan's financing structure was
designed to finance fifty percent of each category.           This structure proved difficult for the new
environmental authorities, which first financed the entire cost of a consultant payment or good and were
subsequently reimbursed by the Bank on the basis of SOEs for fifty percent of the respective expense. A
sliding scale disbursement schedule, in which the Bank financed a greater percentage of project costs
during the project's first two years, would have provided the agencies with greater flexibility in project
implementation.

EMAs' sources of counterpart financing not conducive to long-term planning. EMAs' resources were
collected from environmental fines and economic instruments. These resources, however, were not retained
by the EMA but returned to the city treasury. The EMAs undertook a separate negotiation with the city for
their annual budget.

Changes in cost structure and priorities. During implementation, the government's budget restrictions led
to a lower than estimated disbursement of loan proceeds. The Bank therefore agreed to transfer US$5.7
million of the loan's proceeds to the emergency program for the Eje Cafetero (Earthquake Reconstruction
Project) in September 1999. Given the loan's fifty-percent financing structure, this transfer reduced the
project's total costs by US$11.4 million. To accommodate for shifting priorities, loan proceeds were
reallocated among categories three times during project implementation. In addition, since the Bank and
counterpart had agreed in 2000 that the project would close in December 2001 (providing an extension to
the original closing date of July 31, 2000), the government did not allocate resources to the project for
2002. Hence, US$1.4 million was cancelled from the loan account, under two cancellations in July 2002
and February 2003. The Bank later agreed, at the counterpart's request, to close the loan on December 31,
2002 (the closing date established under the 1999 amendment to support earthquake reconstruction) to
allow for successful activity completion.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely. Sustainability in terms of the continuation of programs on urban environment is likely because this
topic is one which is now considered a priority and is on the country's development agenda. Interviews with
clients of the EMAs (e.g., the private sector and professional associations) indicated a desire on their part
to work with environmental agencies. Project outputs, such as regulations are in place, and methodologies
and guides are used. Some agencies, such as DAMA, have initiated mechanisms to achieve financial
sustainability. However, with the new administration, there is an intense discussion currently underway on
the country's environmental management framework. The outcome of these discussions is likely to affect
the current institutions in the environment sector. Discussions with the government indicate that some of
the project's outputs are being used to design the new framework. Clearly in order to make optimal use of
the current capacity in the EMAs, any new structure needs to use the current EMAs as a basis in the larger
cities. Further, for increased effectiveness and efficiency, within a particular geographical region, there



                                                     - 16 -

should be only one responsible environmental management agency. The new structure also needs to ensure
a good balance between the two roles of any environmental agency - enforcer and promoter. The EMAs in
the project have made a particularly important contribution to incorporating environmental issues upstream
in city development plans and POTs in the major cities.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Use of project funds by the EMAs slowed down in 2001, as the project moved towards closure. This
period was also marked by changes in municipal governments, resulting in a low point for environmental
administration in most of the EMAs, as new Directors changed staff, learned more about the topics and had
a desire to revisit existing priorities. However, meetings during the ICR mission in September 2002 with
municipal/city government officials and EMAs indicated that many of the project outputs were being used
to restructure environmental management in the cities. Interestingly, the corresponding marked reduction
of staff last year is also slowly being reversed as many of the people involved in the project are again
working in the EMAs. The transition has been smoother in AREA and DAMA. In the case of DAMA, as
noted earlier, an environmental fund has been set up to assist DAMA to move towards financial
sustainability. In the case of the MoE, an active policy on their part to hire key project consultants as staff
of the urban environment group has helped to smooth the transition.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory.
During preparation in 1994 and 1995, the Bank team worked closely with the four agencies and the
Ministry, as well as environmental NGOs and sectoral agencies, in designing the project, and appraisal
took place in July 1995. The Bank also worked with the government to not only design the project, but
ensure that it would be carried out within a realistic timeframe. The Ministry had proposed a two-year
project, but the Bank stressed that the capacity building planned under the project would be a long-term
exercise, and the Bank and government agreed to a four-year project.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory.
Response from Bank timely.          During implementation, the Bank provided technical and operational
assistance as needed to the project's implementing agencies. Given the number of implementing agencies
(five), this assistance, particularly with respect to procurement, was demanding of Bank resources (both
time and budget) and thus, supervision costs were high. In addition, the Bank made a particular effort to
ensure that the project was transformed from a more problematic project to a satisfactory one. This effort
has clearly paid off, as urban environment is now an important part of the country's development agenda.

However, more operational assistance could have been provided. Even with the intensive supervision
provided by the Bank, the EMAs felt that the Bank could have provided additional assistance on
operational aspects of project management, particularly with respect to procurement and financial
management. They also would have liked to have received more direct, operational support from the
Resident Mission.

Assistance supported development of innovative pollution charge system.              The Bank, through its
supervision efforts, provided technical assistance in the design of one of the most innovative wastewater
charge systems in existence. Under this system, which was begun as a pilot in several of Colombia's
regions, each region set its own pollution-reduction goals for its waterways, imposed national base charges,
and tracked total wastewater discharges for a six-month period. If targets were not met, environmental



                                                     - 17 -

authorities could raise the charges for the ensuing six months, and this process would continue until local
targets were met. Using this innovative wastewater charge system, DADIMA was able to design an
effective mechanism for collecting tasas retributivas (wastewater charges), and also informed the
community of the benefits that these charges generated.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory.
Overall performance was satisfactory. The Bank was both responsive and flexible during project
preparation and implementation. Given the project's young implementing agencies, Bank staff worked
intensively with the counterparts on both project administration (e.g., procurement) and technical aspects
(e.g., preparation of terms of reference) during the project's initial years. In addition, although project
completion was expected in December 2001, the Bank recognized the December 31, 2002 closing date (the
closing date intended for the earthquake reconstruction component in the 1999 Amendment) as the project's
official closing date in order to assist the client in its administrative closing of the project.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory.
The government was a committed partner in project preparation. With scarce officials in the urban
environment arena during implementation, NGOs and other leading environment figures on the environment
front assisted in preparing the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory.
When the project began, MoE was undergoing a period of institutional consolidation, which affected
project implementation during its first years. From 1996-99, the Ministry was restructured three times
resulting in changes in the project's implementing agency. Initially the project was placed under the
Directorate of Human Settlements and Population, and in 1999 was moved to the Urban Environment
Management Group within the General Environment Directorate. In addition, project execution was
affected by the low level of counterpart contributions starting from 1998-99 onwards in the MoE and
DADIMA, in particular.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory.
Project implementation from 1998-99 also suffered due to changes in the project coordinator of the
Ministry, with three different coordinators during this period.              Additionally, the project priorities
established by these coordinators often did not support the project's objectives.              This situation was
improved after the Bank's Mid-Term Evaluation, in which the Ministry moved the project to the Urban
Environmental Management Group and restructured Component 1.                    In addition, loan proceeds from
Component 1 were allocated to the EMAs, as well as the Earthquake Reconstruction Component. The
majority of activities under Component 1 were subsequently carried out in 2000.

In addition, the implementing agencies in the EMAs also underwent various changes during the project
(e.g., changes in key management and staffing, as well as budgetary changes) which affected the continuity
of project implementation, with some agencies more stable than others.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory.
Performance was mixed, but overall satisfactory. Although some environmental agencies have performed
better than others, ranging from highly satisfactory to partially satisfactory, there has been a marked


                                                        - 18 -

increase in their level of institutional capacity.     The knowledge, level of discussion, and available
information with respect to the urban environment is much greater today as compared with the project's
outset.

8. Lessons Learned

Financial sustainability should be a key element in institutional strengthening programs. As part of
project preparation, a risk analysis of flow of funds should be carried out to assess adequate and timely
counterpart funding, and a project component should be included to ensure that by the end of the project
period, the agency is financially sustainable.

TA projects are more effective if they include an investment component in the project's later years.
Tangible results help general political support for the agency, as well as facilitate the dialogue between the
environmental authority and other municipal sectoral agencies.

Result and impact indicators are important for both project follow-up and ex-post evaluation, as well
as for managerial decision-making. It is important that these be established up front and are measured
and updated throughout the project's lifetime. These indicators also help facilitate the transition to regular
operations, at the end of the project's life.

Providing upfront procurement and financial management assistance is an important partner to
technical capacity building for sustainability. Other than procurement and financial management training
in the Bank's procedures, including this aspect as a component in TA projects for the administrative part of
the agency could help ensure that capacity is built on all three fronts: technical, financial and
administrative.

Projects should build in a mechanism for regular inter-institutional coordination and a periodic
redefinition of roles and competencies of environmental agencies. At the time of project preparation,
Law 99 seemed to clearly divide responsibility for urban and rural issues between different agencies.
However, as the urban agencies developed, and there was a better understanding of inter-linkages between
the two, there was an increased blurring of roles and competencies between agencies. Future projects
should take this natural evolution into account and should allow for some inter-institutional coordination
mechanism and re-clarification of roles after an appropriate level of time. For increased effectiveness and
efficiency of environmental management, within a particular geographical area, there should be only one
responsible environmental management agency.

Prior evaluation of the potential risk of different interpretations of the legal framework is
fundamental for the design and execution of a project of this nature, in particular if the legal
framework is relatively recent. Law 99 went into effect in 1993 and the EMAs were subsequently
created (Barranquilla and Cali) or adapted to the new legal framework (Bogotá and Medellín) in 1994.
Although the law established that the EMAs would have the same functions as CARs, it did not specify if
they would have the same "rights" in terms of financial resources. The project was designed on the basis
that the EMAs would have their own resources, complemented by the project's investments, which would
allow the future sustainability of their programs once the project had closed. These resources were not
obtained as planned, which has created a lack of financial sustainability among the EMAs, as well as
hindered the project's impact. A risk analysis of the financial flows could have anticipated this earlier.

Project impacts and their various components depend not only on the availability of resources but
also on the leadership and technical capacity of the executing agency. The continuity in DAMA's



                                                     - 19 -

project administration and coordination has been fundamental in the positive results and impacts it has
achieved during project implementation.

Project design should build in a periodic consultative mechanism with clients to evaluate the impact of
the agency's operations and to also provide a channel for broader discussion on environmental
priorities. For this ICR, the project team consulted with the city agencies, as well as the corresponding
regional environmental agency, the Mayor's office, the public utility, the industry association and key civil
society groups to assess the impact of the EMA's operations. All participants noted the value-added of this
process, and commented that this could have been a useful process to follow periodically during project
implementation.

National, regional and local political cycle has an effect on the project's institutions. Since
environmental issues have a much longer time horizon then the typical three-year municipal administration,
lack of continuity in terms of both staff and priorities (typically generated by changes in the political cycle)
impact heavily on these institutions. The current discussions to possibly increase the municipal
administration term ought to help reduce this effect.

Continuity of key managers and staff is critical to ensure institutional capacity is built. Capacity is
built through learning on the job, and frequent changes in staff result in the capacity built being dispersed,
rather than focused within a particular institution.

An adequate documentation center within institutions and a related dissemination plan is important
to create an institutional memory but also to make full use of outputs generated. Under an institutional
strengthening project, an archive of activities, projects, studies, etc. should be designed, maintained, and
disseminated, in order to consolidate institutional memory and ensure that management is undertaken with
better information. It also reduces the consequences of staff turnover, and helps to build, through
dissemination, a broader constituency in the community.




                                                      - 20 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

N.A.




                                             - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Component A. Impact Indicators
                                                                                         Results
Improve planning and environmental administration in         MoE worked with 17 municipalities to develop
urban areas.                                                 environmental action plans, resulting in promotion of
                                                             citizen participation, project formulation, support in the
                                                             development of POTs, strengthening environmental
                                                             education, etc.

                                                             MoE supported incorporation of environmental aspects in
                                                             the POTs and developed guidelines directed toward
                                                             mayors, municipal authorities, CARs, NGOs and
                                                             community associations interested in including
                                                             environmental aspects in the POT.
Improve information on sectoral problems, preparation of     Thirty-eight studies carried out: 16 correspond to urban
investment projects, planning instruments for                environmental policy, eight to air pollution, seven to solid
environmental mangement, institutional coordination          wastes, five to the Canal del Dique, and two to water
mechanisms, manuals for the use of economic instruments      resources.


Component B. Impact Indicators

B.1 DAMA
                                                                                         Results
Improve efficiency and effectiveness in carrying out         Joint partnerships with the community and private and
functions; improve inter-sectoral coordination among         public sectors in the management of strategic ecosystems
public entities and private sector                           (e.g., the Eastern Hills), solid wastes, public spaces,
                                                             emissions.
Improvement in the use of environmental planning             100% (DAMA's work plan has continually involved the
instruments; increased community participation in            participation of different actors in Bogotá.)
planning and urban environmental management.
Ensure environmental licenses for all large industries and   Licenses authorized in one week or in the case of more
the introduction of economic incentives                      complex licenses, authorization is provided in ten months.


                                                             DAMA instituted award program, "Environmental
                                                             Excellence Program," to publicly recognize industries in
                                                             Bogotá with good environmental practices.
Training carried out in accordance with planned training     100 out of 150 DAMA officials trained from 1996 ­ 2000.
programs


B.2 DADIMA
                                                                                         Results
Improve efficiency and effectiveness in carrying out         Joint partnerships with the community and private and
functions; improve inter-sectoral coordination among         public sectors in the management of solid wastes and
public entities and private sector                           sanitation, air quality, public spaces, as well as
                                                             environmental education programs.
Improvement in the use of environmental planning             Environmental recuperation programs with two
instruments; increased community participation in            communities developed and implemented.
planning and urban environmental management.
                                                             Increased community participation in environmental



                                                       - 22 -

                                                             management through meetings with politicians in 18 of
                                                             Barranquilla's 21 neighborhoods.

                                                             Community environmental agendas carried out in 25% of
                                                             the city's neighborhoods.
Increase in investments related to environmental quality.    Investments have increased from US$1,478 million in
                                                             1998 to US$8,000 million in 2001.
Ensure environmental licenses for all large industries and   459 industries underwent a cleaner production
the introduction of economic incentives.                     reconversion process from 1996 ­ 2000.


B.3 DAGMA
                                                                                       Results
Improve efficiency and effectiveness in carrying out         At a local level, a neighborhood planning committee has
functions; improve inter-sectoral coordination among         been formed.
public entities and private sector
                                                             Among the 21 neighborhoods, the total number of
                                                             environmental projects prioritized per year is
                                                             approximately 5.
Improvement in the use of environmental planning             In 1996 DAGMA developed neighborhood environmental
instruments; increased community participation in            agendas for each neighborhood, most developed with a
planning and urban environmental management.                 high degree of community participation. Approximately
                                                             35% of the agendas have been carried out per
                                                             neighborhood.

                                                             DAGMA played a significant role in the development of
                                                             both the POT and development plan, in which 20% and
                                                             25% of the plans' components, respectively, pertain to
                                                             environment.
Ensure environmental licenses for all large industries and   The average time for license authorization is four months.
the introduction of economic incentives
Training carried out in accordance with planned training     35 of DAGMA's officials received training in
programs                                                     environmental management.


B.4 AMVA
                                                                                       Results
Improve efficiency and effectiveness in carrying out         AMVA has coordinated with all municipalities in the
functions; improve inter-sectoral coordination among         development of the POTs' environmental component.
public entities and private sector
Increase in investments related to environmental quality.    Environmental investments have increased from
                                                             74,212,630 in 1996 to 1,600,000,000in 2000.
Improvement in the use of environmental planning             AMVA has implemented 19 local environmental agendas
instruments; increased community participation in            for the nine municipalities (7 for Medellín alone).
planning and urban environmental management.
Ensure environmental licenses for all large industries and   17 industries are undergoing a cleaner production
the introduction of economic incentives                      reconversion process.
Training carried out in accordance with planned training     80% of AMVA's officials, who have received training,
programs                                                     continue working for the agency.




                                                       - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Table 1: Project Cost by Component (US$ million equivalent)
Project Cost By Component                                                  Appraisal   Reprogramming         Actual
                                                                            Estimate       (1999)            (2002)
                                                                            (1995)
A. Design and implementation of a technical assistance strategy through            9.15           6.74             5.00
MoE for cities of less than one million inhabitants:
1. MoEs TA Strategy and Action Plan                                                0.30                            0.15
2. Urban Environmental Strategies and Action Plans                                 1.15                            0.67
3. Studies                                                                         2.66                            2.21
4. Organizational Support/Project Administration                                   0.90                            0.74
5. Acquisition of Equipment                                                        0.14                            0.37
6. Training                                                                        2.40                            0.81
7. Information System                                                              1.60                            0.05
B. Institutional strengthening of EMAs in Bogotá, Cali, Medellín, and             30.85          21.66            21.73
Barranquilla
1. Design of EMAs                                                                  1.49                            3.38
2. Environmental Strategies and Action Plans                                       3.05                            1.93
3. Studies                                                                         6.93                            5.17
4. Preparation of Regulations and Procedures                                       2.90                            0.78
5. Organizational Support/Project Administration                                   1.28                            1.90
6. Acquisition of Equipment                                                        0.30                            3.97
7. Training                                                                        2.90                            0.84
8. Environmental Education and Public Participation                                1.70                            1.28
9. Information System                                                             10.30                            2.48
C. Unallocated                                                                                    0.10             0.00
D. Housing Grants (Earthquake Reconstruction)                                                     5.70             5.70
                                                     Total Project Costs          40.00          34.20            32.43




Table 2: Project Financing by Category (US$ million equivalent)
Category                            Appraisal Estimate                Actual           Percentage of Appraisal
                                   Bank             Govt.       Bank         Govt.       Bank           Govt.


Consulting services                11.78            11.78       10.37         10.37      88%             88%
Training                             3.75            3.75        0.83           0.83     22%             22%
Goods and equipment                  2.47            2.47        2.17           2.17     88%             88%
Unallocated                          2.00            2.00        0.00           0.00
Earthquake Reconstruction                                        5.70
                         Total     20.00             20.00      19.07          13.37




                                                         - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable.




                                      - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year    Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              October 1994                2    Sr. Environmental Specialist,
                                               Institutional Specialist
              November 1994               3    Country Officer, Economist,
                                               Urban Advisor
              December 1994               3    Sr. Environmental Specialist,
                                               Institutional Specialist, Urban
                                               Planner/Participatory Specialist
              April 1995                  7    Sr. Environmental Specialist,
                                               Young Professional, Financial
                                               Analyst, Environmental
                                               Engineer, Environmental
                                               Economist, Institutional
                                               Specialist, Urban
                                               Planner/Participatory Specialist
              July - August 1995          8    Sr. Environmental Specialist,
                                               Young Professional, Financial
                                               Analyst, Environmental
                                               Engineer, Environmental
                                               Economist, Institutional
                                               Specialist, Urban
                                               Planner/Participatory Specialist,
                                               Consultant
              April 1996                  3    Senior Environmental Specialist,
                                               Institutional Analyst, Consultant
                                               (Env. Education Specialist)

 Supervision
              October 1996                6    Senior Environmental                  S               S
                                               Specialist, Environmental
                                               Economist, Institutional
                                               Analyst, 2 Env.
                                               Monitoring/Information
                                               Systems Specialists,
                                               Consultant (Env. Education
                                               Specialist)
              October ­                   4    Senior Environmental Specialist,      S               S
              November 1997                    Transport Specialist, 2
                                               Consultants (Env. Specialist and
                                               Env. Education Specialist)
              April 1998                  1    Senior Environmental Specialist       S               S
              July 1998                   5    Senior Environmental Specialist,      S               S
                                               Natural Resources Management
                                               Specialist, Projects Officer, 2
                                               Consultants (Env. Specialist and
                                               Env. Educ. Specialist)




                                                - 26 -

               January ­ February         1   Consultant (Env. Educ.               S    S
               1999                           Specialist)
               March 1999                 3   Senior Environmental Specialist,     S    S
                                              2 Consultants (Env. Specialist
                                              and Env. Educ. Specialist)
               June 2000                  2   Senior Environmental Specialist,     S    S
                                              Consultant (Env. Specialist)
               January 2001               2   Senior Environmental Specialist,     S    S
                                              Consultant (Env. Specialist)
               May 2001                   2   Senior Environmental Specialist,     S    S
                                              Consultant (Env. Specialist)
               September 2001             3   Senior Environmental Specialist,     S    S
                                              Consultant (Env. Specialist),
                                              Operations Analyst

 ICR
               September 2002            4     Senior Environmental                S    S
                                               Specialist, Projects Officer,
                                               Consultant (Env.
                                               Specialist), Operations
                                               Analyst




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              103.6                             234.1
  Supervision                             212.5                             452.9
  ICR                                      24.9                             32.6
  Total                                   341.0                             719.6




                                               - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Aide Memoires and Project Status Reports.

Area Metropolitana del Valle de Aburrá. 2002. Programa FIGAU: Informe Final de Cierre del
Prestatario.

Departamento Administrativo Distrital del Medio Ambieneto (DADIMA). 2001. Informe Final de
Cierre del Programa de Fortalecimiento Institucional para la Gestión Ambiental Urbana ­
Programa FIGAU.

Departamento Técnico Administrativo del Medio Ambiente (DAMA). 2002. Informe Ejecutivo
Final del Programa de Fortalecimiento Institucional de la Gestión Ambiental Urbana.

Econometría S.A., 2001. Evaluación de la Contribución del Programa de Fortalecimiento
Institucional de la Gestión Ambiental Urbana ­ FIGAU ­ en la Consolidación de la Gestión
Ambiental Urbana en Colombia.

Largura, Ligia Maria. 2000. Classification of Project Activities.

Team notes of interviews with staff of agencies, CARs, mayor's offices, public utilities, and
private sector associations in cities.




                                              - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR


        PROGRAMA DE FORTALECIMIENTO INSTITUCIONAL PARA LA GESTIÓN
                                         AMBIENTAL URBANA

                                  Programa de Crédito BIRF 3973 Co

1.      Antecedentes del Programa de Crédito

La promulgación de la Constitución Política de 1991 en la cual se definen las condiciones necesarias para
avanzar en el país hacia modelos de desarrollo sostenible, al incorporar los aspectos ambientales entre los
factores de desarrollo y en virtud de lo anterior, la expedición de la Ley 99 de 1993, mediante la cual se
organiza el Sistema Nacional Ambiental y se crea el Ministerio de Medio Ambiente, se constituyen en los
instrumentos marco para el nuevo ordenamiento institucional y legal mediante los cuales se proyecta la
gestión ambiental en Colombia en los últimos diez años.

Se puede afirmar que hasta ese momento, salvo algunas valiosas excepciones, la gestión ambiental había
desarrollado sus grandes fortalezas para abordar los problemas asociados a las cuencas hidrográficas, los
bosques, la biodiversidad, el agua, entre otros elementos. Dichas excepciones hacen referencia por ejemplo
a la gestión de Corporaciones Autónomas Regionales como las de Risaralda, Bucaramanga, Cauca y
Caldas, las cuales surgieron desde la década de 1960 con el objetivo específico de atender problemas
ambientales urbanos como la inestabilidad de laderas que amenazaban a la población de las ciudades de
Manizales (Caldas) y Bucaramanga (Santander), el deterioro del tramo urbano del río Otún en la ciudad de
Pereira (Risaralda) y la reconstrucción de la ciudad de Popayán (Cauca) afectada por un devastador
terremoto en 1983. Necesariamente estas son experiencias valiosas de gestión ambiental urbana disponibles
en el país, que en buena medida no habían sido registradas y sistematizadas pero que definitivamente
constituyeron el capital mas valioso para la implementación del programa de crédito.

La situación ambiental de las ciudades en el país para comienzos de la década de 1990, está bien descrita
en el Conpes 2750 de 1994 de Política Ambiental "El Salto Social hacia el Desarrollo Humano Sostenible"
la cual se caracteriza por crecimiento incontrolado de las ciudades afectando ecosistemas estratégicos,
grandes presiones sobre recursos naturales y áreas protegidas, demanda incremental de recursos naturales y
alimentos, fenómenos de contaminación hídrica, atmosférica y de suelos cada vez de mayor magnitud, entre
otros aspectos que determinan y definen la insostenibilidad de los modelos de desarrollo urbano.

De otro lado, la Ley 99 de 1993 institucionaliza la gestión ambiental urbana. En su artículo 65 estableció
las funciones que en materia ambiental tienen los municipios y distritos del país y en su artículo 66 las
competencias de los grandes centros urbanos. Según este último artículo, "los municipios, distritos o áreas
metropolitanas cuya población urbana fuese igual o superior a un millón (1.000.000) de habitantes ejercerá
dentro del perímetro urbano las mismas funciones atribuidas a las Corporaciones Autónomas Regionales,
en lo que fuere aplicable al medio ambiente urbano". En este marco fueron creadas las Autoridades
Ambientales Urbanas de las Ciudades de Bogotá (DAMA), Barranquilla (DADIMA), Cali (DAGMA) y el
Área Metropolitana del Valle de Aburrá asumió las funciones citadas en el artículo 66 de la ley. Pero
dichas autoridades ambientales urbanas debieron asumir sus funciones y desarrollo de su misión, en
ausencia de un marco de actuación claramente definido en términos administrativos, económicos,
normativos y financieros, debiendo entonces hacer un gran esfuerzo por adaptar los instrumentos
originalmente diseñados para la gestión ambiental de cuencas hidrográficas o para un contexto



                                                    - 31 -

eminentemente rural.

En el contexto así definido de manera general, se da el proceso de diseño e implementación del Programa de
Crédito BIRF 3973 Co, con objetivos de desarrollo claramente identificados relacionados con el
fortalecimiento de la capacidad de gestión ambiental urbana en el Ministerio del Medio Ambiente y las
Autoridades Ambientales Urbanas.

Una mirada retrospectiva del proceso de diseño del programa de crédito debe partir del reconocimiento de
las limitaciones conceptuales e instrumentales del Ministerio y las Autoridades ambientales urbanas en
particular y el país en general en materia de gestión ambiental urbana, las cuales se reflejaron en unos
planteamientos muy generales para la estructuración del proyecto, la formulación de presupuestos alejados
de la realidad política y económica del país y las regiones y la incapacidad de advertir los riesgos asociados
a la incipiente experiencia de las instituciones recientemente creadas. De ahí surgen las grandes
limitaciones para adelantar un ejercicio juicioso y completo de evaluación de los resultados e impacto del
programa FIGAU, debiendo en gran medida acudir a una evaluación de carácter cualitativo para la mayor
parte de sus componentes. Una buena aproximación a la evaluación cuantitativa a partir de los indicadores
de resultado e impacto definidos desde las fases iniciales del programa se encuentra desarrollada en el
informe final de la consultoría adelantada por el Ministerio de Medio Ambiente para tal fin, a través de la
firma Econometría S. A. titulado "Evaluación de la Contribución del Programa FIGAU en la
Consolidación de la Gestión Ambiental Urbana en Colombia" (Econometría S.A., 2001).

En términos generales se debe enunciar que el Ministerio del Medio Ambiente en el año de 1996 de
implementación del Programa de Crédito no identificó claramente los horizontes de desarrollo del proyecto,
a partir de los cuales se definieran las acciones estratégicas y tácticas del proceso de ejecución, lo cual
implicaba la identificación de las necesidades de registro de información para el mantenimiento de los
indicadores de resultado, el establecimiento de los mecanismos de flujo e intercambio de información y
capacidades que permitiera superar las debilidades y limitaciones individuales de las agencias ejecutoras, la
estructuración de una estrategia clara de comunicación y publicación de avances y resultados del programa
de crédito que le permitiera posicionarse en los diferentes espacios políticos y técnico de la gestión
ambiental y la gestión del desarrollo, entre otros aspectos de carácter operativo que, como se citó antes,
definían y determinaban una estructura sólida para la ejecución del programa.

En ausencia de éste y hasta 1999, la ejecución del programa de crédito por parte del Ministerio del Medio
Ambiente se dio en un escenario de planificación débil, en el cual una gran parte de los recursos se
orientaron hacia la atención de aspectos coyunturales y con una escasa participación de éste en las
decisiones sobre inversión y acción que se tomaban en las Autoridades Ambientales Urbanas.

No obstante lo anterior, y como producto del redireccionamiento del crédito a partir de 1999 que implicó
modificar en gran medida las prioridades y estrategias de inversión y ejecución del proyecto, se debe
resaltar que resulta evidente el fortalecimiento de la capacidad de gestión ambiental urbana del Ministerio y
las Autoridades Ambientales Urbanas, la cual se puede medir en términos de los indicadores del programa
pero adicionalmente con otros indicadores referidos a la realidad actual de la situación ambiental de las
ciudades objeto del programa y las características de la institucionalidad para la gestión ambiental urbana.

2.       Principales Características de la Situación Actual

El análisis de la situación actual debe tener dos referentes siendo el primero de ellos, a partir de los
subcomponentes abordados por el programa de crédito siendo ellos:




                                                     - 32 -

·        Diseño e implementación de una estrategia de asistencia técnica a los centros urbanos del país.
·        Desarrollo de instrumentos de planeación local y de ejercicios de planeación
·        Desarrollo de estudios institucionales y sectoriales.
·        Diseño y aplicación de un Programa de capacitación.
·        Desarrollo del componente urbano del Sistema de información ambiental del SINA.

Este ejercicio de evaluación ya fue realizado para el Ministerio de Medio Ambiente por la firma
Econometría S. A. a través del proyecto de consultoría citado, cuyos resultados son avalados y aceptados
institucionalmente, por lo que no se incluirán en el presente informe ejecutivo. Pero una aproximación
diferente a los resultados e impacto en cada uno de los subcomponentes puede hacerse como se citó antes,
alejándose del sistema de evaluación del programa y más bien favoreciendo la incorporación de factores,
elementos y criterios propios de la realidad actual de la gestión ambiental urbana.

Una segunda forma de aproximarse a la descripción de la situación actual tiene que ver propiamente con
las tendencias actuales de desarrollo de la gestión ambiental, las cuales no se relacionan directamente con
las ejecutorias del Programa FIGAU, sino que tienen que ver con la evolución de los modelos de gestión
institucionales, las características que el gobierno nacional le ha impreso a la gestión ambiental y en virtud
de ello, al nuevo orden institucional, y que resultan determinantes para el futuro de los productos y
resultados del Programa.

En relación directa con la ejecución del Programa FIGAU

En este aspecto es necesario señalar que para el cumplimiento de los objetivos del programa y el desarrollo
de cada uno de sus subcomponentes, se definió un esquema de ejecución que se fundamentaba en la
necesidad de mejorar la capacidad del Ministerio de Medio Ambiente, hoy Ministerio de Ambiente,
Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial, a partir de la generación de instrumentos y conocimiento de la realidad
de la situación, necesidades y posibilidades de gestión en las regiones. Así, los productos del tercero y
quinto subcomponentes, relativos a Estudios Institucionales y Sectoriales y el módulo urbano del Sistema
de Información Ambiental para Colombia, sirvieron de base para el desarrollo de los demás
subcomponentes relativos a la estrategia de asistencia técnica, estrategia de capacitación y desarrollo de
instrumentos de planificación local. Dado lo anterior, en la descripción de la situación actual a partir de la
ejecución del programa, se hará referencia en varias oportunidades a algunos de los productos, lo cual
aparecería confuso si no se tiene en cuenta esta apreciación.

En el proceso de diseño y desarrollo de la estrategia de asistencia técnica dirigida desde el Ministerio
de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial a los Centros urbanos del país, se ha producido el
instrumento maestro para el fortalecimiento de la capacidad de gestión ambiental de las entidades
territoriales, denominado Sistemas de Gestión Ambiental Municipal, el cual se diseñó en un ejercicio piloto
en 6 ciudades y se está replicando actualmente desde el Ministerio, en 7 ciudades, pero a través de las
Corporaciones Autónomas Regionales en al menos 5 municipios adicionales. Un ejemplo de lo anterior es
la apropiación que Corantioquia ha hecho del instrumento SIGAM y la réplica que directamente está
implementando en tres municipios de su jurisdicción sin el acompañamiento del Ministerio.

Para el diseño del instrumento se partió de la experiencia institucional relacionada con los Planes de Acción
Ambiental Local y los ejercicios de planificación en el marco de la Agenda Local 21 implementados en las
primeras etapas de desarrollo del FIGAU. El proyecto de los Sistemas de Gestión Ambiental ha conducido
a la formulación de: i) el Instructivo para el diseño de los Sistemas de Gestión Ambiental Municipal ­
SIGAM, ii) Guía administrativa para la gestión ambiental municipal con desarrollos por tres tipologías de
municipios, iii) Seis Agendas Ambientales Municipales (una por cada municipio reseñado), iv) Guías para


                                                     - 33 -

la Incorporación de la Agenda Ambiental a los instrumentos de planificación Municipal (planes de
desarrollo, planes de ordenamiento territorial, planes ambientales trianuales (PAT) y planes de gestión
ambiental regional). v) Guía para la implementación de los Sistemas de Gestión Ambiental Municipal en
los seis municipios piloto con el apoyo de las respectivas CAR's, vi) Estrategia e instrumentos de
capacitación para la puesta en marcha de réplicas nacionales.

De otro lado, el Ministerio ha ganado capacidad para el acompañamiento y asistencia a Entidades
Territoriales, Corporaciones Autónomas Regionales y Autoridades Ambientales Urbanas en diferentes
aspectos entre los que sobresalen:

·       Gestión Integral de Residuos: destacándose la gran capacidad en términos de diseño de programas
        de reciclaje y gestión integral de residuos hospitalarios. Un mero ejemplo de lo anterior
         lo constituye el esquema para la prestación del servicio especial de aseo relativo a la
        gestión externa de residuos hospitalarios de Bogotá, el cual es producto de un acompañamiento
        realizado por el Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial a la Unidad
        Ejecutiva de Servicios Públicos del Distrito Capital, UESP. Adicionalmente, el Ministerio
        de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorio dispone actualmente del Modelo para
        la Gestión de Residuos Peligrosos, diseñado a partir de la experiencia piloto adelantada
        en el corredor industrial Cali-Yumbo, pero sobre el cual se deberá trabajar fuertemente
        para lograr su implementación, desarrollo y réplica en otros corredores industriales del país.
·       Gestión Integral del Recurso Hídrico: Es innegable el inmenso capital que FIGAU ha dejado en
        el Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial en materia de recurso hídrico,
        representado en instrumentos claros y eficientes para mejorar la gestión en el país. El Modelo
        para la Gestión Integral del Recurso Hídrico, las Guías ambientales para los proyectos de
        infraestructura del sector de agua potable, el Manual para la gestión de aguas residuales
         domesticas y las bases para la construcción del Plan Nacional de Manejo de Aguas
        Residuales en Colombia son los principales productos de FIGAU, que deberán ser articulados
        con los procesos de gestión institucionales de tal forma que en el futuro cercano se gane en
        eficiencia en la administración del recurso hídrico.
·       Gestión de los fenómenos de contaminación atmosférica en las ciudades: En el marco del
        Programa FIGAU fue posible avanzar considerablemente en la capacidad institucional para
         abordar los problemas asociados a la contaminación del aire. En este sentido, a manera de
        resultados quedan las bases para la actualización y perfeccionamiento de las normas de
        control de la calidad del aire, lo cual implica que en el Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda
        y Desarrollo Territorial se asuma estructuralmente el Programa de Aire, el cual ha
        sido marginalmente abordado.
·       Participación Social en la Gestión Ambiental Urbana: Aunque no estaba definido como uno
        de los objetivos estructurales del Programa FIGAU, el Ministerio en desarrollo de la estrategia
        fundamental del Proyecto Colectivo Ambiental, Política Ambiental para el periodo 1998-2002,
        incluyó dentro de su esquema de ejecución la posibilidad de generar instrumentos para favorecer
        la participación social en la gestión ambiental urbana. En este contexto se asumió el proyecto
        Observatorios Ambientales Urbanos que se definen como espacios de participación y
        coordinación entre entidades locales y regionales en los que, a partir de la información
        suministrada por el sistema de indicadores ambientales urbanos, se reflexiona acerca de la
        calidad ambiental de la ciudad y se procura la incorporación de decisiones acertadas
        en los planes, programas, proyectos o acciones específicas de mismas entidades involucradas.
        El proyecto está diseñado para 8 ciudades del país pero está siendo operado y mantenido
        en solamente 4 de ellas. Un acercamiento preciso a las características del proyecto se puede
        realizar a través de su página web www.minambiente.gov.co/oau.


                                                     - 34 -

En términos del desarrollo de instrumentos de planeación local y como se citó antes, el Ministerio
estratégicamente articuló los procesos y productos de otros subcomponentes con el objetivo de ganar en
coherencia y favorecer el impacto de su gestión. Fue así como además de asumir algunas acciones y
proyectos específicos relativos al acompañamiento o seguimiento de procesos de formulación de Planes de
Ordenamiento Territorial, también asumió el diseño de novedosos instrumentos de planificación, gestión y
para el fortalecimiento administrativo de las Entidades Territoriales y Corporaciones Autónomas
Regionales.

Los Sistemas de Gestión Ambiental Municipal ya citados, integran instrumentos para adelantar
diagnósticos ambientales rápidos a manera de perfiles ambientales municipales, preparación de Agendas
Ambientales Municipales y estrategias para asumir funciones ambientales en forma integral por parte de
Entidades Territoriales. Pero productos específicos en materia de residuos sólidos y de recursos hídricos
también se constituyen en instrumentos que están orientados hacia el fortalecimiento de la capacidad de
planificación. El Sistema de Información de Residuos Sólidos y el componente ambiental del Plan Decenal
de Manejo de Aguas Residuales en Colombia son productos que aportan elementos, criterios e instrumentos
claros para fortalecer y mejorar la capacidad de planeación en los niveles nacional y regional
preferentemente.

El Desarrollo de Estudios Sectoriales fue la base de todo el fortalecimiento de la capacidad del Ministerio
de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial, toda vez que este fue el medio utilizado para avanzar en el
conocimiento de la realidad ambiental urbana. La evolución del carácter de los estudios realizados a todo lo
largo del Programa FIGAU muestra la forma de evolucionar el conocimiento en la materia por parte del
Ministerio. Tal como se señala en la "Evaluación de la Contribución del Programa FIGAU en la
Consolidación de la Gestión Ambiental Urbana en Colombia", los primeros estudios realizados tuvieron un
carácter general y fue a partir de 1998 en donde se gana especificidad en los temas que se abordan a partir
de los estudios y diagnósticos sectoriales contratados. Lo anterior se relaciona necesariamente con el mejor
criterio para la orientación de las decisiones y las actuaciones en el Ministerio, como producto de la
sistematización y aprehensión de los resultados alcanzados en las etapas iniciales del proyecto.

En este aspecto y para consolidar el aprendizaje y los resultados del Programa FIGAU, resulta fundamental
completar la base de datos con los estudios realizados y su sistematización, lo cual deberá servir de marco
orientador de las políticas y programas de gestión del Ministerio de Ambiente Vivienda y Desarrollo
Territorial. Así mismo, se deberá garantizar la incorporación debida de todo este bagaje de conocimiento,
en las decisiones que sobre la materia se deberán tomar para continuar el proceso de fortalecimiento de la
capacidad institucional.

El Componente de Capacitación adelantado en el marco del programa FIGAU se desarrolló a partir de
diferentes estrategias y la primera de ellas se refiere a la capacitación de funcionarios del antiguo
Ministerio de Medio Ambiente a partir de lo cual se logró la cualificación de un buen número de
funcionarios que en gran medida siguen vinculados con el Ministerio y la mayor parte de ellos, alrededor de
temas relativos a la gestión ambiental urbana. No obstante lo anterior, se debe señalar que a la luz de la
evaluación final del FIGAU, se indica que hizo falta un plan estructurado en el que se identificaran los
temas prioritarios para la capacitación de funcionarios y la identificación de los criterios para la aplicación
de los recursos disponibles para el efecto.

Una segunda estrategia consistió en la incorporación del componente de capacitación en los diferentes
programas y proyectos adelantados en el marco del FIGAU, con lo cual se mejoró notablemente la
eficiencia de los mismos. Esta es tal vez una de las más importantes lecciones aprendidas por el Ministerio,


                                                    - 35 -

dados los generosos resultados alcanzados y que se evidencian en la apropiación de algunos de los
instrumentos diseñados en el marco del programa y difundidos a través de la estrategia de capacitación. Tal
como se señala en la "Evaluación de la Contribución del Programa FIGAU en la Consolidación de la
Gestión Ambiental Urbana en Colombia", resulta complicado medir dicho impacto, por lo que una
búsqueda de indicadores cualitativos en la realidad actual puede conducir a la asignación de algún valor
asociado al impacto de FIGAU, por ejemplo en el peso relativo que tiene la Gestión Ambiental Urbana en
los Planes de Gestión Ambiental Regional formulados o actualizados por las Corporaciones Autónomas
Regionales durante la vigencia del 2002 y hasta el 2003, en los cuales, de acuerdo con los datos
suministrados por la Dirección de Planeación, Información y Coordinación Regional, se invertirán
alrededor del 25% del total de los recursos totales de las Corporaciones en las diferentes líneas de la gestión
ambiental urbana. Muy seguramente este no es un indicador del impacto del programa de capacitación y tal
vez ni siquiera del Programa FIGAU, pero de alguna manera si indica el posicionamiento del tema al
interior de las autoridades ambientales regionales y locales.

Por último, el componente urbano del Sistema de Información Ambiental para Colombia tiene
resultados y avances considerables como la Aproximación al Estado Ambiental de las Ciudades en
Colombia, a partir del cual se evidenciaron las debilidades en el conocimiento de las condiciones
ambientales de las ciudades del país y la débil estructura para el tratamiento de los temas relativos a medio
ambiente urbano de los sistemas de información de las regiones y las ciudades. Salvo contadas excepciones,
se debe mencionar que en este aspecto se plantean los más grandes retos del Ministerio de Ambiente,
Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial y en el que tal vez se deba ser más creativo como para generar los
instrumentos tecnológicos, administrativos y financieros que posibiliten el avance en el conocimiento de la
situación ambiental de las ciudades del país.

De otro lado, se dispone del Sistema de Información sobre Residuos Sólidos, el cual, de acuerdo con
manifestaciones de la Superintendencia de Servicios Públicos, entidad encargada por la ley de administrar,
operar y mantener el Sistema Único de Información del Sector de Servicios Públicos, es una poderosa
herramienta para facilitar los ejercicios de análisis de la información y apoyo a los ejercicios de planeación
y toma de decisiones en materia de residuos sólidos. El sostenimiento de este sistema depende grandemente
de la capacidad del Ministerio de convocar las voluntades de las entidades relacionadas con el tema, para
garantizar el acopio eficiente de la información y su incorporación en los esquemas de planeación nacional
y regional.

Aunque el proyecto de Observatorios Ambientales Urbanos tiene un componente de Sistemas de
Indicadores, se considera que por el carácter local de la información que allí se aloja y la distancia
importante que existe aún en los diferentes sistemas de medición de las ciudades que hacen parte del
proyecto actualmente, no deben ser tenidos en cuenta como desarrollos del componente del Sistema de
Información Ambiental para Colombia, aunque si aporta elementos criterios de valor para el mejoramiento
de dicho sistema.

En relación con las tendencias actuales de desarrollo de la gestión ambiental

Para la evaluación de la situación actual en relación con las tendencias de desarrollo de la gestión ambiental
se debe partir de la descripción rápida del Programa de Modernización del Estado adelantado por el
Gobierno Nacional, y en este contexto, del análisis de los planteamientos estratégicos incluidos en el Plan
Nacional de Desarrollo puesto a consideración del Congreso de la República a comienzos de la presente
vigencia del 2003.

En desarrollo del Programa de Modernización Institucional, el Gobierno adelantó un proceso de


                                                      - 36 -

reestructuración del aparato estatal producto del cual asignó al antiguo Ministerio de Medio Ambiente, las
funciones que en materia de Vivienda, Agua Potable y Saneamiento Básico y Desarrollo Territorial,
estaban en cabeza del antiguo Ministerio de Desarrollo Económico, a partir de lo cual surgió un nuevo
Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial. Por sus funciones y nuevo ámbito de actuación,
al nuevo Ministerio se le favorece su gestión en temas estratégicos como el Agua, el Ordenamiento y
Desarrollo Territorial y necesariamente, la Gestión Ambiental Urbana.

Otro ingrediente fundamental del Programa de Gobierno tiene que ver con el fortalecimiento de la
descentralización administrativa como factor fundamental para la construcción del Estado Comunitario.
Este principio estructurante de la gestión del gobierno central pretende alcanzar los medios que contribuyan
a la generación de capacidad local para asumir la atención de las necesidades de la población y aprovechar
los espacios y oportunidades que se ofrecen en la región para alcanzar las metas y cumplir los objetivos del
desarrollo. Este planteamiento fundamental debe ser contextualizado para el análisis de las tendencias de la
gestión ambiental en el país y sobre todo a la luz de los productos y resultados del programa FIGAU, toda
vez que define criterios con los cuales el Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial se debe
aproximar a las Entidades Territoriales en general y a las Administraciones Municipales en particular.

De manera específica, el Plan Nacional de Desarrollo ha incluido dentro del objetivo estratégico de
"construir equidad social" el programa de Calidad de Vida Urbana a través del cual se busca favorecer la
igualdad de oportunidades entre la población para acceder a mejores niveles de vida al interior de la ciudad
y para lo cual se han considerado líneas de acción específica en términos de gestión sostenible del espacio
público, desmarginalización, transporte urbano sostenible, prevención de desastres, entre otras.

Adicionalmente, a partir del reconocimiento de las grandes limitaciones para enfrentar los grandes retos
ambientales urbanos asociadas a la ausencia de instrumentos financieros, en el proyecto de Ley del Plan
Nacional de Desarrollo se ha incluido un artículo a través del cual se distribuyen los recursos provenientes
de la sobretasa ambiental al gravamen sobre la propiedad inmueble, entre la Autoridad Ambiental Urbana y
la Corporación Autónoma Regional respectivas.

Pero ya en el año 2002, a través de la promulgación de la ley 768 por la cual se adopta el Régimen Político,
Administrativo y Fiscal de los Distritos de Barranquilla, Cartagena de Indias y Santa Marta, se había
ampliado el espectro de las autoridades ambientales urbanas del país al permitir que "...los respectivos
Concejos Distritales, a iniciativa del Alcalde, de acuerdo con lo establecido en el artículo 313 de la
Constitución Política crearán un Establecimiento Público, que desempeñará las funciones de autoridad
ambiental en el área de su jurisdicción..." (Artículo 13 de la Ley 768 de 2002). La anterior se puede
interpretar como una clara señal que han enviado los Alcaldes de ciudades capitales en relación con su
interés por asumir el ejercicio de la autoridad ambiental a través de entidades especializadas para tal fin. La
experiencia del Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial acumulada a lo largo de la
ejecución del Programa FIGAU ha permitido avanzar rápidamente en la estructuración de estas nuevas
entidades.

Los elementos esbozados en este contexto, definen un nuevo marco para la actuación institucional en el que
las prioridades de la acción se están ubicando en las áreas urbanas y los esquemas de gestión a desarrollar
para atender dichas prioridades van a posibilitar la sostenibilidad y proyección de productos y procesos
desencadenados en el marco del FIGAU.

3.      Descripción de los Resultados de los Componentes

Para referirse en términos generales a los resultados del Programa FIGAU en cada uno de los


                                                    - 37 -

subcomponentes es necesario tener en cuenta que la ejecución de éste, a partir del redireccionamiento
realizado en 1999, consideró el diseño y ejecución de proyectos de carácter integral que, por lo general,
abordan varios de los subcomponentes inicialmente considerados. De acuerdo con lo anterior, el mismo
proyecto puede ser citado en el reporte de varios subcomponentes.

a)      DISEÑO E IMPLEMENTACION DE UNA ESTRATEGIA DE ASISTENCIA TECNICA
A LOS CENTROS URBANOS DEL PAIS

En virtud de las debilidades técnicas propias del Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial,
el diseño de los proyectos específicos para adelantar la estrategia de asistencia técnica para los centros
urbanos del país partió de la identificación de las necesidades estructurales en diferentes ámbitos de la
gestión ambiental urbana. En estos términos, se implementaron varios proyectos tendientes a registrar y
sistematizar las experiencias exitosas del país, a partir de lo cual se diseñaron los instrumentos que fueran
replicables en las demás ciudades con el acompañamiento y asistencia del Ministerio. Los principales
instrumentos diseñados y que conforman la base instrumental de la estrategia de asistencia son:

Lineamientos Técnicos y Modelo para la Gestión Integral de Residuos Peligrosos. Construidos a partir
de la implementación de un proyecto piloto regional en el corredor industrial comprendido entre las
ciudades de Cali y Yumbo (departamento del Valle del Cauca), estos lineamientos contienen los términos
bajo los cuales se debe hacer la cuantificación, cualificación y definición de estrategias de manejo
diferenciadas para los diferentes tipos de residuos. El proyecto ha generado las bases técnicas, conceptuales
y metodológicas para la estructuración de los instrumentos de planificación y gestión de los residuos
peligrosos.

Guías Ambientales Sectoriales. Son instrumentos de orientación conceptual, metodológica y
procedimental, diseñadas para consolidar la gestión y el desempeño ambiental de los proyectos, obras o
actividades y para mejorar la capacidad de gestión de las Entidades Territoriales. En el marco del FIGAU
se han diseñado las siguientes:

·       Guía Ambiental sobre Tecnologías Disponibles para la Gestión Integral de Residuos Sólidos
·       Guía Ambiental para Rellenos Sanitarios
·       Guía Ambiental para Cierre y Saneamiento de Botaderos
·       Manual de procedimientos para el Manejo Integral de Residuos Hospitalarios
·       Guía Práctica de Formulación de Proyectos de Gestión Integral de Residuos Sólidos que pretenden
        acceder a recursos del Fondo Nacional de Regalías (FNR)
·       Modelo de Proyectos de Aprovechamiento de Residuos Sólidos para Municipios Pequeños
·       Modelo de Proyectos de Aprovechamiento de Residuos Sólidos para Ciudades Intermedias
·       Modelo de Proyectos Regionales de Gestión Integral de Residuos Sólidos
·       Guía Técnica para Procesos de Capacitación en el Tema de Residuos.
·       Manual de Procedimientos y Requisitos para Proyectos de Preservación del Medio ambiente
        (residuos sólidos) Interesados en Acceder a Recursos del Fondo Nacional de Regalías"
        (Ministerios)
·       Manual para la Implementación de Planes de Gestión de Residuos Peligrosos
·       Guía Metodológica para la Formulación de Planes Regionales para la Protección Integrada
        de las Aguas Subterráneas
·       Guía Práctica de Formulación de Proyectos de Tratamiento de Aguas
        Residuales Municipales Interesados en acceder a Los Recursos del Fondo
        Nacional de Regalías (Municipios)
·       Guía ambiental para Sistemas de Acueducto


                                                     - 38 -

·        Guía ambiental para Sistemas de Alcantarillado incluyendo los Sistemas de Tratamiento
         de Aguas Residuales
·        Guía ambiental para la Formulación de Planes de Pre-tratamiento de Efluentes Industriales
·        Manual de Procedimientos y Requisitos para Proyectos de Preservación del
         Medio ambiente (Aguas Residuales) Interesados en Acceder a Recursos del Fondo
         Nacional de Regalías (Ministerios)
·        Guías Administrativas para la Gestión Municipal por Categorías de Municipios

Modelo de Gestión Integral de Residuos Hospitalarios. Dada la magnitud del problema sanitario y
ambiental asociado al manejo inadecuado de residuos hospitalarios, en coordinación con el Ministerio de
Salud se adelantó el diseño del Modelo de Gestión Integral de Residuos Hospitalarios que comprende: 1)
desarrollo normativo para la reglamentación de la gestión integral de residuos hospitalarios y similares con
la obligatoriedad para los generadores de estos residuos, de preparar un Plan de Gestión Institucional
Interna para su Manejo, que garantice su mejoramiento continuo así como las obligaciones de los
prestadores del servicio de desactivación y de las personas jurídicas prestadoras del servicio especial de
aseo para residuos hospitalarios; 2) la implementación de 10 proyectos piloto en igual número de Entidades
Prestadoras de Servicios de Salud de las ciudades de Santa Marta, Barranquilla y Cartagena, los cuales
favorecieron el proceso de ajuste del Manual de Procedimientos para la Gestión Integral de Residuos
Hospitalarios y fortalecieron la gestión       interna en dichas entidades 3) Desarrollo de una completa
estrategia nacional de divulgación y capacitación sobre el tema en el marco de la cual se capacitaron
funcionarios de las autoridades sanitarias y ambientales y personal del sector de la salud en 10 ciudades de
igual número de departamentos del país.

Modelos Regionales de Gestión Integral y Modelos de Aprovechamiento de Residuos Sólidos. A partir
del acompañamiento institucional a procesos de implantación, evaluación y seguimiento de proyectos
regionales de gestión integral y de aprovechamiento y valorización de residuos sólidos, se desarrollaron los
modelos para el diseño y puesta en marcha de proyectos regionales de gestión integral de residuos sólidos y
modelos de aprovechamiento para municipios pequeños y ciudades intermedias, que apuntan a orientar a
los municipios y grupos de municipios en la ejecución de este tipo de proyectos. Los modelos incluyen
aspectos de coordinación y planificación, de divulgación y capacitación, técnicos, ambientales,
administrativos y financieros, para facilitar la gestión de los residuos sólidos en los municipios pequeños y
ciudades intermedias del país.

Modelo para la Gestión Integral del Recurso Hídrico en Colombia. A partir de la evaluación y
sistematización de los instrumentos y modelos de gestión ambiental del recurso hídrico estructurados por
las Corporaciones Autónomas Regionales, se diseñó la primera aproximación a una propuesta de modelo
de gestión ambiental para el manejo integral del agua en Colombia con énfasis en el uso racional, el cual
pretende convertirse a futuro en una herramienta útil para acompañar procesos de fortalecimiento
institucional en las CAR's, organismos no gubernamentales de carácter ambientalista, sector educativo, y
otros actores institucionales y sociales estratégicos en el marco de la gestión del agua.

Modelo para el Reuso Agrícola, Pecuario, Forestal y Acuícola de las Aguas Residuales Domésticas. A
través de un convenio suscrito entre el Ministerio del Medio Ambiente, la Corporación Autónoma Regional
del Tolima, el Instituto Ibaguereño de Acueducto y Alcantarillado, IBAL, la Alcaldía de Ibagué y la
Asociación de Usuarios de la Cuenca del Río Chipalo, se ha diseñado el modelo de reuso de las aguas
residuales domésticas, que considera los requerimientos ambientales y sanitarios del marco normativo del
país.

Modelo de Gestión Integral del recurso Aire. A partir de la identificación de las limitaciones técnicas y


                                                      - 39 -

normativas para el control de la contaminación del aire que presentaban los esquemas de gestión
implantados por las autoridades ambientales urbanas y regionales en el país, se procedió a diseñar el
modelo de gestión integral que incluye los esquemas para el levantamiento y mantenimiento de la
información acerca de los principales contaminantes a la atmósfera, los criterios para el diseño de
estrategias normativas de tipo administrativo y técnico y un plan de gestión para la implementación de las
anteriores, lo cual se constituye en el camino para avanzar hacia la reducción de contaminantes y la
incorporación de lineamientos para la planeación de las actividades para el logro de las mismas.

b)       DESARROLLO DE INSTRUMENTOS DE PLANEACION LOCAL Y DE EJECUCION
DE EJERCICIOS DE PLANEACION

El componente relacionado con el desarrollo de instrumentos de planeación local fue el que tal vez, mas
rápidamente gano coherencia e integridad en el proceso de ejecución del Programa FIGAU. Evidencia de lo
anterior se encuentra en el desarrollo o evolución de los productos obtenidos en la fase inicial, por ejemplo
aquellos relacionados con los Planes de Acción Ambiental y Agenda Local 21, experiencia que fue
sistemáticamente recogida para el diseño e impulso de los Sistemas de Gestión Ambiental Municipal. El
ejercicio de construcción de políticas y planes del FIGAU alcanzó los siguientes resultados:

Lineamientos Ambientales para la Gestión Urbano Regional en Colombia.                      Aprobados por el
CONSEJO NACIONAL AMBIENTAL en su sesión del 8 de abril de 2002, su construcción contó con la
participación activa de las entidades del gobierno central -especialmente el Departamento Nacional de
Planeación y el Ministerio de Desarrollo Económico-, entidades regionales y municipales del Sistema
Nacional Ambiental ­Corporaciones Autónomas Regionales, Unidades Ambientales de grandes centros
urbanos, entidades territoriales-, y sobresale la participación de la academia a través del panel de expertos
sobre ciudad y medio ambiente conformado para el efecto. El documento plantea los conceptos, criterios y
directrices generales que deberán seguir las instituciones públicas y los actores sociales comprometidos con
la gestión ambiental de los centros urbanos y sus entornos regionales desde la perspectiva del desarrollo
sostenible y se estructura en cuatro grandes estrategias, orientadas hacia lo Cultural, Regional, Urbano e
Institucional, en las cuales se enmarcan las acciones prioritarias en materia de gestión Ambiental Urbana,
que en su desarrollo, deberán ser incorporadas a los escenarios de macropolítica urbana u urbano-regional
del país. En este mismo sentido, se deben resaltar las características del proceso de construcción
participativa de los Lineamientos Ambientales para la Gestión Urbano Regional en Colombia, el cual se
constituyó en un valioso aprendizaje para el Ministerio toda vez que como documento de política, dispuso
de los medios para avanzar en la identificación de los instrumentos que favorecían su implementación,
evaluación y seguimiento.

Sistemas de Gestión Ambiental Municipal (SIGAM). Son instrumentos que en su desarrollo buscan
fortalecer administrativamente a los municipios en cuanto se refiere a la Gestión Ambiental. Se basan
fundamentalmente en la interacción de dos partes: i) Una primera, relacionada con las potencialidades de la
oferta natural asociada a      las necesidades del desarrollo y los problemas ambientales urbanos y
municipales, resultado de esta interacción. ii) Una        segunda parte,  representada por el conjunto de
instrumentos de gestión que ofrece el Sistema Nacional Ambiental ­ SINA, relacionados con las políticas
ambientales y sectoriales, los instrumentos básicos de planeación y sus componentes ambientales, planes
de desarrollo y de ordenamiento, planes sectoriales, agendas ambientales, planes de gestión ambiental
regionales, instrumentos jurídicos y       normativos,     administrativos y organizacionales, instrumentos
económicos y financieros, sistemas básicos de            información municipal,     educación ambiental     y
participación ciudadana.

Para su diseño, construcción e implementación, se trabajo conjuntamente con las Corporaciones


                                                     - 40 -

Autónomas Regionales del Valle (CVC), Tolima (Cortolima), Bucaramanga (CDMB), Atlántico (CRA),
Risaralda (Carder) y Centro de Antioquia (Corantioquia) para la implementación de seis proyectos piloto
en igual número de municipios, en los cuales se han establecido los respectivos convenios de cooperación y
coordinación entre el Ministerio del Medio Ambiente, las Corporaciones Autónomas Regionales y las
Administraciones Municipales de Pereira, Bucaramanga, Ibagué, Palmira, Tubará (Atlántico) y Santafé de
Antioquia (Antioquia).

Como producto de estos desarrollos se tiene la formulación de: i) el Instrumento para la formulación de los
Sistemas de Gestión Ambiental Municipal ­ SIGAM, ii) Guía administrativa para la gestión ambiental
municipal con desarrollos por tres tipologías de municipios, iii) Seis Agendas Ambientales Municipales
(una por cada municipio reseñado), iv) Guías para la Incorporación de la Agenda Ambiental a los
instrumentos de planificación Municipal (planes de desarrollo, planes de ordenamiento territorial, planes
ambientales trianuales (PAT) y planes de gestión ambiental regional). v) Implementación de los Sistemas
de Gestión Ambiental Municipal en los seis municipios piloto con el apoyo de las respectivas CAR's, vi)
Seis talleres regionales de capacitación y un taller nacional de socialización de las experiencias, vii)
Materiales de capacitación para la puesta en marcha de réplicas nacionales.

Plan Nacional para la Puesta en Marcha de la Política de Gestión Integral de Residuos (GIR). Con el
objeto de priorizar acciones, definir estrategias de gestión para el corto, mediano y largo plazo y articular y
estructurar instrumentos para el fortalecimiento institucional, técnico, económico, social y financiero que
faciliten la planificación de la gestión integral de los residuos sólidos en Colombia, se formuló el Plan
Nacional para la puesta en marcha de la política, que actualmente favorece la gestión en el nivel nacional y
de las Corporaciones Autónomas Regionales en la materia.

Criterios Ambientales para el Plan de Manejo de Aguas Residuales.                  En cumplimiento de los
compromisos de gobierno establecidos en el Plan Nacional de Desarrollo, el Departamento Nacional de
Planeación y los ministerios de Salud, Medio Ambiente y Desarrollo Económico emprendieron el proceso
de formulación del Plan Nacional de Manejo de Aguas Residuales Municipales, que tiene como objeto
principal priorizar acciones de descontaminación hídrica y definir estrategias de gestión y fortalecimiento
institucional, con miras a atender las demandas de descontaminación hídrica del país para el corto, mediano
y largo plazo. El Ministerio del Medio Ambiente, como aporte fundamental a este proceso, adelantó en el
marco del FIGAU el Modelo de Simulación Alfanumérico para la Priorización de la Gestión de Aguas
Residuales Domésticas en Colombia, que aportó en su resultado, criterios y elementos ambientales para la
formulación del Plan.

Plan de Acción para la Ejecución de un Programa Integrado de Gestión Ambiental Urbano Regional
en las Ecorregiones Estratégicas de La Mocaná (Región Caribe Nororiental), Valle de Aburrá - Valle
de San Nicolás - Páramo de Belmira (Antioquia) y Humedales del Magdalena Medio. El desarrollo del
enfoque de las ecorregiones estratégicas en el contexto urbano regional quedó materializado en tres
ejercicios de planificación ampliamente participativos desarrollados a través de Universidades y
Organismos no gubernamentales pertenecientes a las mismas regiones objeto de planificación, lo cual
favoreció la legitimación de los procesos allí adelantados. Los resultados de los ejercicios sirvieron de
insumo y referente básico para el ajuste y fortalecimiento de los Planes de Gestión Ambiental Regional
formulados por las Autoridades Ambientales Regionales y Urbanas, ya que se constituyen en instrumentos
descriptivos, analíticos y programáticos idóneos para la articulación de las acciones regionales en materia
de gestión ambiental urbana.

Planes de Protección Integrada de Aguas Subterráneas. Con el apoyo técnico de la cooperación
británica y en coordinación con el Instituto de Investigaciones en Geociencias, Minería y Química -


                                                     - 41 -

INGEOMINAS, el Instituto de Hidrología, Meteorología y Estudios Ambientales - IDEAM y las
Corporaciones Autónomas Regionales del Valle del Cauca - CVC y San Andrés - CORALINA, se
formularon los planes de manejo regional de aguas subterráneas en cada una de las jurisdicciones de estas
Corporaciones.

c)      DESARROLLO DE ESTUDIOS INSTITUCIONALES Y SECTORIALES

Con el objetivo de mejorar el conocimiento sobre temas específicos relativos a la gestión ambiental urbana
y mejorar los criterios para la actuación institucional, se adelantaron los siguientes estudios que, como se
citó antes, sirvieron de base para el fortalecimiento de la estrategia de asistencia técnica y el desarrollo del
programa de capacitación:

Estudio Jurídico y Técnico para la Gestión Ambiental Urbana. El estudio abordó la evaluación de la
gestión realizada en los últimos ocho años de existencia del Sistema Nacional Ambiental y la identificación
de potencialidades, vacíos, problemas de competencias y análisis de las funciones e instrumentación,
tanto de las Unidades Ambientales Urbanas de los grandes centros urbanos, como de las Corporaciones
Autónomas Regionales y del Ministerio del Medio Ambiente. A su vez, a partir del estudio se avanzó en la
identificación de las bases para articular y consolidar la gestión ambiental urbana en el marco de la gestión
pública a nivel nacional, regional, departamental y municipal.

Aplicación de un Modelo Alfanumérico de simulación para la Priorización de la Gestión de Aguas
Residuales Domésticas en Colombia. Como el componente de investigación y estudios del proceso de
preparación de los criterios ambientales para el Plan Nacional de Manejo de Aguas residuales, se desarrolló
un modelo de simulación de fenómenos de contaminación hídrica con fundamento en información
hidrológica sobre caudales y vertimientos de centros urbanos calculados a partir de los datos de población
actual y proyectada. En el marco del estudio se determinó el impacto ambiental que pueden llegar a causar
los vertimientos de los municipios sobre la red hídrica nacional, identificando los cuerpos de agua
potencialmente mas afectados por estos vertimientos y los centros urbanos que a su vez generan los mas
graves problemas de contaminación hídrica en Colombia.

Evaluación de la Capacidad de Gestión Ambiental Municipal (Programa Municipios Verdes). A través
de este proyecto ejecutado en convenio con la Federación Colombiana de Municipios y la Fundación
Hábitat, se avanzó en el conocimiento acerca de las necesidades reales de fortalecimiento de la capacidad
de gestión ambiental municipal, con base en las cuales, las entidades del gobierno central y las regiones
recogen los criterios y las prioridades en relación con el diseño de instrumentos necesarios para orientar sus
acciones y proyectos encaminados a buscar dicho fortalecimiento.

d)      DISEÑO Y APLICACIÓN DE UN PROGRAMA DE CAPACITACION

Como se anotó antes, la ejecución del Programa FIGAU consideró el diseño de proyectos integrales que
tenían incorporado el componente de capacitación. Es así como en el proceso de construcción de los
instrumentos de planificación como PAAL, Agenda Local 21, o instrumentos para la gestión integral del
agua, aire o de residuos sólidos, se abrían espacios tendientes a mejorar la capacidad de las regiones en
esta materia. Ya para la fase final del programa, la capacitación con recursos FIGAU se orientó a el
impulso en las regiones y las ciudades de la implementación de los instrumentos de gestión ambiental
desarrollados.




                                                     - 42 -

e)      DESARROLLO DEL COMPONENTE URBANO DEL SISTEMA DE INFORMACION
AMBIENTAL PARA COLOMBIA

Aunque de acuerdo con las evaluaciones realizadas del componente A del programa de crédito, el desarrollo
del módulo urbano del sistema de información ambiental para Colombia aparece como el de mas baja
implementación, se debe señalar que los productos obtenidos representan un importante aporte en el
proceso de estructuración de dicho sistema. A este respecto, se debe señalar que los aplicativos de sistemas
desarrollados en el marco del programa FIGAU han sido apropiados por la estructura del Ministerio, han
sido difundidos entre otras Entidades que han reconocido el valor de los desarrollos y se están
estructurando los convenios para el aprovechamiento de las potencialidades que ellos ofrecen. Los
productos obtenidos se resumen en:

Evaluación del Estado Ambiental de las Ciudades en Colombia 2001. Consistió en la construcción de
líneas base sobre medio ambiente urbano, para lo cual se diseñó y aplicó en 66 ciudades, una encuesta
sobre temas que claramente permiten identificar en su interpretación, la situación ambiental de los centros
urbanos del país. En el proyecto se incluyó el análisis de la capacidad institucional de gestión ambiental
urbana medida en términos de capacidad financiera, administrativa y de planificación, entre otros aspectos,
por parte de diferentes entidades entre las que necesariamente sobresalen las autoridades ambientales
regionales y urbanas, administraciones municipales y organismos no gubernamentales de carácter
ambientalista.

Observatorios Ambientales Urbanos (OAU) y Sistema de Indicadores Ambientales Urbanos (SIAU).
Los Observatorios Ambientales Urbanos se definen como espacios de participación y coordinación entre
entidades locales y regionales en los que, a partir de la información suministrada por un sistema de
indicadores, se reflexiona acerca de la calidad ambiental de la ciudad y se procura la incorporación de
decisiones acertadas en los planes, programas, proyectos o acciones específicas de las mismas entidades
involucradas. Se soportan en el Sistema de Indicadores, el cual se ha construido de acuerdo con modelos
internacionales, pero teniendo presente varios planteamientos básicos como son la necesidad de contar con
la información necesaria para alimentar el sistema, que la medición de los indicadores identificados sea
posible, que los indicadores tengan relevancia política en términos de que provean una figura representativa
de las condiciones ambientales, que sean de fácil interpretación y que tengan un valor umbral de referencia
contra el cual se puedan comparar, siguiendo bases analíticas, científicas y técnicas. Los indicadores
mencionados se desarrollaron en 12 temas, divididos por subtemas y pueden ser consultados en la página
web www.minambiente.gov.co/oau. En el marco del FIGAU se desarrolló el aplicativo y se construyeron
los Sistemas de Indicadores de las ciudades de Bogotá, Barranquilla, Cali, Medellín, Manizales y
Bucaramanga. La promoción del proyecto ha conducido a su implementación en las ciudades de Armenia,
Pereira y Villavicencio, las cuales tienen diferentes niveles de avance.

Sistema de Información sobre Residuos Sólidos (SIRS). Como un instrumento para la planificación y
priorización de la inversión a nivel nacional y regional y para realizar el seguimiento de los avances en los
procesos de implementación del Plan Nacional para la Puesta en Marcha de la Política de Residuos, se
diseñó el Sistema de Información de Residuos Sólidos, SIRS, sistema georreferenciado que contiene la
información sobre el sector, desde los aspectos relacionados con la generación y manejo hasta los esquemas
de prestación del servicio de aseo a nivel municipal.

4.      Descripción de los Impactos del Proyecto

El sistema de evaluación del impacto del proyecto comprendía un conjunto de seis indicadores, los cuales
fueron revisados y ajustados para el desarrollo del proceso de evaluación final, en el contexto del proyecto


                                                     - 43 -

"Evaluación de la Contribución del Programa FIGAU en la Consolidación de la Gestión Ambiental Urbana
en Colombia" adelantada por el Ministerio del Medio Ambiente a través de la firma Econometría S.A.
(2001), pero vale manifestar que, dadas las condiciones de la ejecución del programa, la información
disponible que definiera de manera aproximada una línea base y los esquemas de manejo de la información
al interior del Ministerio, dicha evaluación se caracterizó por sus limitaciones y en buena parte no refleja de
forma integral el verdadero impacto del proyecto. Tal vez el factor que en mayor medida limita la
determinación del impacto del Programa, es la imposibilidad de medir su incidencia real en las decisiones
que sobre gestión ambiental urbana, se están tomando en las regiones y municipalidades.

Para superar esta limitación, se debe acudir a la descripción y cualificación de algunas características de
los procesos de gestión que en la actualidad adelantan las Entidades del Sistema Nacional Ambiental, las
cuales en gran medida se generan o relacionan con la gestión del Ministerio. Se debe tener en cuenta que,
para la ejecución de la fase final del Programa, el Ministerio hizo ajustes en su estructura orgánica, para
crear el Grupo de Gestión Urbana y Salud que directamente asumió con exclusividad el tema y la
orientación del Programa FIGAU.

En este sentido, el Ministerio llegó a la totalidad de las Corporaciones Autónomas Regionales a través de
los diferentes proyectos específicos, fueran estos de capacitación o gestión en temas como aire, aguas
residuales, residuos sólidos, instrumentos de planificación, etc. A partir de lo anterior, se encuentra que el
tema de Gestión Ambiental Urbana en cualquiera de sus aspectos, se encuentra bien desarrollado en los
Planes de Acción Trianual de las Corporaciones para el periodo 2001 ­ 2003, los Planes de Gestión
Ambiental Regional que fueron formulados o ajustados entre 2001 y 2002 y que definen los horizontes de
gestión para los próximos 5 a 8 años, dependiendo de la región, y necesariamente, en el documento de las
Bases para el Plan Nacional de Desarrollo que en la actualidad se discute en el Congreso de la República.
En el citado Plan Nacional de Desarrollo, algunos proyectos específicos como el Plan Nacional de Manejo
de Aguas Residuales, el Modelo para la Gestión Integral del Recurso Hídrico, el esquema de Gestión del
Aire, SIGAM y Observatorios Ambientales Urbanos, aparecen con sus nombres propios como una
manifestación del interés del actual gobierno, de garantizar la sostenibilidad de los procesos y proyección e
impulso a los productos obtenidos en el marco del Programa FIGAU.

Ahora bien, es necesario tener en cuenta que el Programa FIGAU tuvo un marcado énfasis de diseño de
instrumentos y la aplicación e implantación de los mismos se espera que sea desarrollada, sobre todo, a
partir del cierre del programa. No obstante lo anterior, la realidad muestra claramente que el peso relativo
de los temas ambientales urbanos en los instrumentos de planificación y de gestión de las Entidades del
SINA ha aumentado, hasta tal punto que, de la misma forma que lo hizo el Ministerio, inclusive han
ajustado sus estructuras internas y la organización de sus grupos de trabajo, para abrirle espacio a la
Gestión Ambiental Urbana.

En otro sentido, el impacto del Componente A del Programa FIGAU se puede evaluar en términos de la
capacidad de respuesta del Ministerio ante la gran demanda de atención, asistencia o capacitación que
recibe de parte de las Corporaciones Autónomas Regionales, las Entidades Territoriales, las
Organizaciones de iniciativa Ciudadana de carácter ambientalista o las organizaciones sociales en general.
Infortunadamente no existe un registro sistemático de dichas solicitudes y aún menos, de las respuestas
eficientes que se brindan, pero de alguna manera se puede inferir su alta incidencia como para que los
temas ambientales urbanos ocupen una buena parte del tiempo de las agendas de los alto directivos del
Ministerio y de un número cada vez mayor de profesionales de las áreas técnicas.

A manera de conclusión es posible manifestar que en cumplimiento del objetivo del Programa FIGAU, el
fortalecimiento de "la capacidad del Ministerio del Medio Ambiente para brindar asistencia técnica y


                                                     - 44 -

apoyar la gestión ambiental urbana" es una realidad y ello se debe a la experiencia adquirida y las
lecciones aprendidas a partir de la implantación del citado Programa.

5.      Factores que Incidieron en la Implantación del Proyecto

En tanto ya fuern citados, relacionados y descritos los resultados e impactos positivos del programa, en este
capítulo solo se citarán aquellos aspectos que incidieron de manera negativa en su ejecución, pero dejando
claro que la experiencia adquirida por el Ministerio en términos de ejecución de Programas de Crédito
Externo, le resultará suficiente como para asumir los en el futuro los compromisos asociados a una nueva
operación, con los menores riesgos y la instrumentación necesaria para garantizar el éxito.

Ahora bien, volviendo sobre la mirada retrospectiva de la ejecución del Programa FIGAU se deben resaltar
algunos aspectos de las fases de diseño y desarrollo que de una buena manera, recogen las lecciones
aprendidas. Una primera aproximación a estas lecciones aprendidas se obtuvo en el Seminario Nacional de
Capacitación e Intercambio de Experiencias y Lecciones Aprendidas en Materia de Gestión Ambiental
Urbana, realizado en la ciudad de Cartagena de Indias entre el 12 y 14 de septiembre de 2001 y en el marco
del ya citado proyecto de "Evaluación de la Contribución del Programa FIGAU en la Consolidación de la
Gestión Ambiental Urbana en Colombia" adelantado por el Ministerio del Medio Ambiente a través de la
firma Econometría S.A. (2001).

·       Los horizontes del proyecto no fueron claramente definidos desde un comienzo, lo cual condujo a
        la ejecución con débiles esquemas de planeación y bajos niveles de articulación y cooperación
        entre las agencias ejecutoras.
·       Dada la baja capacidad del Ministerio y las Autoridades Ambientales Urbanas al momento de
        implantar el proyecto, no se dispusieron los sistemas de registro de información relativa a la
        ejecución del programa, lo cual dificultó bastante los procesos de cambio asociados a la rotación
        del personal y los procesos de seguimiento y evaluación de la gestión y los resultados.
·       El Programa no dispuso de los medios que permitieran superar las debilidades institucionales
        de las agencias ejecutoras (Ministerio y Autoridades Ambientales Urbanas). A este respecto
        se estima que el Banco Mundial como prestatario y tal vez con experiencias similares de
        otros países, debió cooperar más eficientemente en la identificación de tales limitaciones y
        ofrecer o al menos plantear las estrategias para superarlas.
·       La situación fiscal del país, la estructura de manejo del presupuesto y las normas para su
        ejecución se presentan como factores que inciden en la eficiencia de los procesos de ejecución.
        Para superar tales debilidades, se deberían considerar algunas condiciones relativas al tema en
        los procesos de negociación de las diferentes operaciones y proyectos que se adelanten en un
        futuro.
·       Los procesos de fortalecimiento institucional deben ser asumidos de manera integral por parte de
        las entidades ejecutoras. En el caso del Programa de Crédito BIRF 3973 Co, resulta evidente
        la ausencia de capacidad institucional para asumir las actividades relacionadas con el
        manejo contable y presupuestal del el proyecto, lo cual ha dificultado enormemente la
        etapa de cierre.
·       Los acuerdos de las Misiones de Supervisión no deben desbordar los términos de negociación
        de los programas de crédito, salvo que dichos acuerdos deriven en la firma de las enmiendas
        respectivas. Lo anterior tiene que ver con el acuerdo de misión de supervisión relacionado
        con la anticipación de la fecha de cierre del programa (de diciembre de 2002 a diciembre de 2001),
        lo cual no se reflejó en la modificación de las cláusulas del contrato de préstamo pero que fue
        determinante para el acortamiento de los plazos necesarios para alcanzar las metas y
        resultados previstos en la etapa final del Programa.


                                                     - 45 -

·       El esquema propuesto por el Banco Mundial para el intercambio de experiencias y
        la sistematización de las lecciones aprendidas, resultó ser una herramienta poderosa que
        contribuye al mejoramiento de los niveles de interacción entre las distintas agencias alrededor
        de un programa específico. Pero este mismo esquema puede ser implementado entre programas
        similares, en diferentes países y en la medida de las posibilidades, en distintas etapas de ejecución,
        como para favorecer aún más la apropiación o divulgación de dichas experiencias.
·       Los procedimientos para el reporte de la información sobre ejecución presupuestal y para la
        viabilización de proyectos en el Banco Mundial no son complejos ni demorados como para
        conceptuar de manera negativa sobre ellos. De hecho, la oficina de la representación del Banco
        Mundial en el país y el equipo del proyecto en Washington siempre estuvieron dispuestos a apoyar
        en la solución de conflictos asociados a la ejecución del Programa. Pero al respecto vale la pena
        hacer una anotación: un ejercicio de planeación más completo y riguroso favorece la etapa de
        ejecución, por lo que se plantea que hubiera sido deseable que el Banco Mundial a
        partir de su experiencia y capacidad, fuera mas determinante en el planeamiento estratégico del
        programa de tal forma que se hubiera garantizado la adecuada ejecución desde el inicio y
        a partir de ello, se hubiera generado la posibilidad de establecer otros medios de seguimiento
        caracterizados por una mayor libertad como por ejemplo subiendo los valores a partir de
        los cuales se hace necesario solicitar la no objeción para contratación de proyectos específicos.

6.      Plan de Operación Futura del Proyecto

El plan para la operación futura y la sostenibilidad de los procesos y proyección de los productos obtenidos
en el marco del FIGAU, están definidos por los siguientes aspectos significativos:

·       La presencia de los temas específicos en los instrumentos de planeación y gestión del Gobierno
        Central (Plan     Nacional de Desarrollo) lo cual implica que los proyectos se continuarán por lo
        menos, hasta el año 2006.
·       La vigencia de convenios suscritos en el marco del Programa FIGAU con diferentes Entidades del
        SINA, a partir de los cuales se garantiza la aplicación de los instrumentos diseñados. Ejemplos
        de lo anterior son los convenios con las Corporaciones Autónomas Regionales y Administraciones
        Municipales de los municipios piloto de SIGAM, el convenio con Cortolima, la Alcaldía de Ibagué
        y la Empresa de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de la misma ciudad, para la implementación
        del programa de reuso de aguas residuales domésticas, entre otros.
·       La continuidad de la mayor parte del equipo FIGAU en la nueva estructura de personal del
        Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial. A este respecto cabe anotar que tres
        contratistas del FIGAU fueron incorporados a la planta de personal y dos contratistas
        adicionales, han continuado en las mismas líneas temáticas pero utilizando otras fuentes
        de financiación. La vigencia y preponderancia alcanzada por los problemas ambientales
        urbanos que ha conducido a modificar las dinámicas de la gestión ambiental y
        obligado a las Entidades competentes a prestar especial atención a los problemas
        ambientales urbanos; a lo anterior se asocia una presión cada vez mayor dirigida al
        Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial por parte de las Entidades
        del Sistema Nacional Ambiental, para dar respuesta eficiente a las necesidades locales
        y regionales.




                                                     - 46 -

- 47 -

