Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3973-CO
Loan Agreement
(Urban Environmental Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 26, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 3973-CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 26, 1996, between Republic of Colombia (the Borrower) and  
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Agreed Work Plan" means a Work Plan (as defined in (bb) below) agreed 
between the Borrower, through the Ministry (as defined in paragraph (o) below), and 
the Bank pursuant to
subparagraphs (iii) and (iv) of paragraph (e) of Section 3.01 of the Agreement and 
that is an integral part of the corresponding contractual arrangements to be entered 
into by the EMA in question pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (g) (i) of this 
Agreement;
(b)
"AREA" means Area Metropolitana del Valle de Aburra, the Metropolitan 
Area referred to in paragraph (l) (iv) below;
(c)
"Capital District" means Santa Fe de Bogota, the capital of the Borrower;
 
(d)
"CAR" means Corporacion Autonoma Regional (Autonomous Regional 
Corporation) a separate legal entity administratively and financially autonomous and 
established pursuant to the
provisions of Title VI of Law 99 (as defined in paragraph (n) below): (i) whose 
jurisdiction may comprise, in whole or in part, one or more Territorial Entities 
which, because of their characteristics, constitute the same ecosystem from a 
geographical viewpoint or, form a geopolitical, biogeographical or hydrogeographical 
unit; and (ii) that has been charged by the aforesaid Law with the responsibility of 
managing the environment and the renewable natural resources with the aim of achieving 
sustainable development of said resources, all in conformity with the prevailing legal 
provisions and the Ministry's policies on the subject;
(e)
"City" means an intermediate or smaller urban area with a population of 
less than one million inhabitants and in which area the jurisdiction on environmental 
matters is exercised by the corresponding CAR jointly with Departmental and Municipal 
Authorities (as the terms are defined in (k) and (r) below, respectively) pursuant to 
the provisions of Law 99 (as the term is defined in (n) below);
(f)
"DAHP" means the Ministry's Direccion de Asentamientos Humanos y 
Poblacion - (Directorate of Human Settlements and Population);
(g)
"DADIMA" means Departamento Administrativo Distrital del Medio Ambiente 
(District Administrative Department for the Environment), a separate legal entity 
wholly owned by the
Municipality (as the term is defined in (q) below) of Barranquilla;
(h)
"DAGMA" means Departamento de Gestion del Medio Ambiente (Managerial 
Department for the Environment), an administrative subdivision of the Municipality of 
Cali;
(i)
"DAMA" means Departamento Tecnico Administrativo del Medio Ambiente 
(Techno-Administrative Department for the Environment), an administrative subdivision 
Page  3
of the Capital District;
(j)
"Department" means Departamento, a political subdivision of the Borrower;
 
(k)
"Departmental Authority" means the entity (either an administrative 
subdivision of, or a legal entity separated from, the Department in question) with 
authority to discharge such Department's responsibilities on environmental matters 
pursuant to the provisions of Law 99;
(l)
"EMA" means, each of the environmental management agencies of urban areas 
in the Borrower's territory with a population of one million inhabitants or more, 
which, for purposes of the Project and unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower 
and the Bank, shall be limited to the following urban areas operating through the 
agency mentioned below in respect of each of the said areas or through any successor 
thereto acceptable to the Bank that may result from the detailed design of EMA's 
organizational structure to be carried out under Part B.1 of the Project: (i) Capital 
District (Distrito Capital Santa Fe de Bogota), operating through DAMA; (ii) 
Municipality
of Cali (Municipalidad de Santiago de Cali), operating through DAGMA; (iii) the 
Special District of Barranquilla referred to in paragraph (dd) (ii) below, operating 
through DADIMA; and (iv) Metropolitan Area of the Aburra Valley (Area Metropolitana 
del Valle de Aburra), a separate legal entity grouping the Municipalities of Barbosa, 
Bello, Caldas, Copacabana, Envigado, Estrella, Girardota, Itagui, Medellin and 
Sabaneta (and other Municipalities that may join the group in the future) established 
by virtue of the provisions of the Borrower's Law No. 128 of February 23, 1994, as 
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette, operating through Unidad Ambiental;
(m)
"IDEAM" means the Borrower's Instituto de Hidrologia, Meteorologia y 
Estudios Ambientales (Institute of Hydrology, Meteorology and Environmental Studies);
(n)
"Law 99" means the Borrower's Law 99 of December 22, 1993, as published 
in the Borrower's Official Gazette dated December  of 1993 which, inter alia, 
established the Ministry
(as the term is defined in (o) below), and reorganized the CARs and put them under the 
jurisdiction of the Ministry;
(o)
"Ministry" means the Borrower's Ministry of the Environment (Ministerio 
del Medio Ambiente), as established by virtue of the provisions of Law 99;
(p)
"Minister of the Environment" means the Borrower's Minister in charge of 
the Ministry or the person lawfully acting for such Minister;
(q)
"Municipality" means Municipio, a political subdivision of the Borrower 
with a geographical area that is within the boundaries of one given Department;
(r)
"Municipal Authority" means the entity (either an administrative 
subdivision of, or a legal entity separated from, the Municipality in question) vested 
by the Municipality in question with authority to discharge such Municipality's 
responsibilities on environmental matters pursuant to the provisions of Law 99;
(s)
"National Environmental Policy" means the Borrower's environmental 
policy, as reflected in document No. 2750 of December 21, 1994 of the Borrower's 
Consejo Nacional de Politica Economica y Social (CONPES);
(t)
"NEIS" means National Environmental Information System (Sistema Nacional 
de Informacion Ambiental), as regulated by the Borrower's Decree No. 1600 of July 27, 
1994;
(u)
"Programa Mejores Ciudades" means Better Cities Program, a program so 
called in the National Environmental Policy which aims at reducing urban pollution and 
strengthening the urban management of environmental resources;
(v)
"Project Implementation Manual" means a comprehensive manual, issued 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement, 
containing instructions for all public sector personnel involved in the carrying out 
of the Project, particularly staff of the Ministry and the EMAs, and norms governing 
all aspects of Project execution, particularly in relation to procurement, flow of 
Page  4
Loan proceeds, supervision and monitoring, reporting and auditing, and including an 
annex thereto setting forth the standard bidding documents, to be used when procuring 
goods for the Project under national competitive bidding procedures as stipulated in 
Parts C.1 and E of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement);
(w)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(x)
"Steering Committee" means the committee consisting of the Minister of 
the Ministry, the Director of DAHP, the Chief of the Environmental Policy Unit of the 
Borrower's Departamento Nacional de Planeacion (National Planning Department), and a 
representative of each EMA, as established by Resolution No. 1524 of the Minister of 
the Environment dated December 11, 1995;
(y)
"Subsidiary Contractual Arrangements" means each of the subsidiary 
contractual arrangements, if any, to be entered into between an EMA and an entity 
acceptable to the Bank,
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (g) (i) (B) (1) of this Agreement;
(z)
"Technical Working Group" means a group established by Resolution No. 
1525 of the Minister of the Environment dated December 11, 1995, with representatives 
of, inter alia, each
EMA and under the leadership of the Ministry and IDEAM, and charged with the 
responsibilities stipulated in paragraph (d) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement;
(aa)
"Territorial Entity" means, for purposes of this Agreement, a Department, 
a District (as defined below in paragraph (dd) or a Municipality;
(bb)
"Unidad Ambiental means Environmental Unit, a unit within the 
administration of AREA that reports directly to AREA's Manager;
(cc)
"Work Plan" means each of the annual work plans for purposes of the 
Project which include all the activities of the Ministry and each EMA thereunder in 
respect of a given calendar
year, and which are to be approved by the Steering Committee and submitted to the Bank 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement;
(dd)
"District" means, for purposes of this Agreement, any one of the 
following political Subdivisions of the Borrower: (i) the Capital District; or (ii) 
the Distrito Especial,
Industrial y Portuario de Barranquilla (Special Industrial and Port District of 
Barranquilla) established by the Borrower's Acto Legislativo (Legislative Act) No.1 of 
August 17, 1993; and
(ee)
"EMA Arrangements" means each of the contractual arrangements to be 
entered into between the Borrower, through the Ministry, and each EMA, pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 3.01 (g) (i) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twenty million dollars 
($20,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
Page  5
satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2000 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed. 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Page  6
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Ministry, with the assistance of each EMA in respect of 
the activities of the EMA in question under Part B of the Project, which assistance 
will primarily consist of the assumption by such EMA of the financial and technical 
responsibilities for said activities as provided for under the
corresponding EMA Arrangements entered into with such EMA pursuant to the provisions 
of paragraph (g) (i) of this Section, all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual.
(c)
Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee (except for changes 
thereto which, in the
opinion of the Borrower and the Bank, shall not adversely affect the carrying out of 
the Project) until the closing of the Loan Account with the responsibility of 
overseeing general implementation of the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual and, more specifically, with the following functions: (i) to 
approve each Work Plan and operating budget for the corresponding activities under 
Part A of the Project and of each EMA under Part B of the Project that has been agreed 
with the Bank pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section; (ii) to review progress in 
implementation of the corresponding agreed Work Plan and to recommend or approve, as 
the case may be, changes thereto which may be required for a better implementation of 
the Project; and (iii) monitor and evaluate achievement of Project objectives.
(d)
Without limitation or restriction to the provision of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall maintain the existence  of the Technical Working 
Group with the representatives and leadership referred to in Section 1.02 (z) of this 
Agreement, until completion of the activities of the Ministry under Part A.5 of the 
Project and of each EMA under Part B of the Project, and shall ensure that such Group 
reviews each proposal related to activities to be included in each Work Plan in 
connection with Part B.7 of the Project and with strengthening environmental 
monitoring capacity of one or more EMAs, and provides comments to the Steering 
Committee on each such proposal before the proposed Work Plan is approved by the 
Steering Committee;
(e)
The Borrower shall, for purposes of the carrying out of the Project: (i) 
on April 30 of each year, commencing in 1996, seek, through the Ministry, the 
agreement of the Bank in respect of the general project activity categories and 
budgetary limits thereof for the immediately following calendar year; (ii) discuss 
with the Bank, through the Steering Committee, the Work Plan for the immediately 
following calendar year based on the categories and limits agreed under (i)  above; 
(iii) introduce in such Work Plan the changes reasonably requested by the Bank, if 
any; (iv) cause the Work Plan agreed between the Borrower and the Bank pursuant to 
(iii) above to be formally approved by the Steering Committee on or before November 30 
of the year in question; (v) carry out or cause each EMA to carry out the 
corresponding activities included in the Agreed Work Plan in question; and (vi) unless 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, with the approval of the
Steering Committee, not allow changes to the Agreed Work Plan in question;
(f)
The Borrower, through the Ministry and for purposes of the carrying out 
of Part A of the Project: (i) may enter with an entity acceptable to the Bank into 
contractual arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank under which arrangements the entity in question shall provide 
the Borrower services to manage adequately the procurement, on behalf of the Borrower, 
of the goods or services or both which may be required by the Borrower to carry out 
said Part of the Project; and (ii) shall not terminate, assign or amend or fail to 
enforce said contractual arrangements, unless otherwise agreed with the Bank.
Page  7
(g)
The Borrower, for purposes of the carrying out of Part B of the Project, 
shall:
(i)
enter, through the Ministry, with each EMA into contractual 
arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Bank (EMA Arrangements), 
to make available to the EMA in 
question, as a budgetary transfer the 
proceeds of the Loan to be used by such 
EMA for the carrying out 
of such EMA's activities under Part B of the Project, 
and to cause 
the EMA in question:
(A)
to carry out all of its activities under Part B of the 
Project in 
accordance with the Project Implementation 
Manual and the corresponding 
Agreed Work Plan (each such 
annual Plan to be an integral part of the 
EMA Arrangements 
with the EMA in question), and in a manner that shall 
enable 
the Borrower to comply with its obligations under this 
Agreement; and
(B)
either: (1) to enter into subsidiary contractual 
arrangements 
satisfactory to the Bank with an entity 
acceptable to the Bank 
(Subsidiary Contractual 
Arrangements) that shall provide to the EMA in 
question 
services to manage adequately the procurement, on behalf of 
such EMA, of the goods or services or both which may be required by 
such EMA to carry out its activities under the applicable EMA 
Arrangement and Agreed Work Plan; or (2) to open and maintain, in 
form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, a revolving account 
to be used 
for funding the expenditures incurred in by such EMA 
under the 
corresponding Agreed Work Plan in the manner 
stipulated in the Project 
Implementation Manual, before such EMA 
is reimbursed for such 
expenditures by the Ministry with 
the corresponding proceeds of the 
Loan; and
 
(ii)
not terminate, amend, assign or fail to enforce any of the EMA 
Arrangements or 
any provision thereof without prior agreement with 
the Bank.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through the Ministry, shall:
(a)
prepare, on  the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through the Ministry, shall maintain or cause to 
be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of 
the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower (including each EMA) 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall, through the Ministry:
 
(i)
have, and cause each EMA to have, the records and accounts 
referred to in
Page  8
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the Special 
Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish, and cause each EMA to furnish, to the Bank as soon as 
available, but 
in any case not later than six months after the end 
of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through the 
Ministry, shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall, through the Ministry, cause each EMA, under 
the applicable EMA Arrangements.
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial and environmental  practices under the supervision of 
qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, machinery, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary 
repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and environmental 
practices.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
Page  9
General Conditions:
(a)
the Project Implementation Manual has been issued by the Ministry, 
through a  Ministerial Resolution, on terms mutually agreeable to the Borrower and to 
the Bank;
(b)
the services of key consultants or Ministry staff reassigned to DAHP key 
positions and of key consultants or staff for at least two EMAs have been hired or 
appointed, as the case may be, on terms and conditions mutually agreeable to the 
Borrower and the Bank; and
(c)
the two EMA Arrangements of the EMAs which have met the condition under 
paragraph (b) above and the corresponding Subsidiary Contractual Arrangements have 
been executed and delivered in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and the 
conditions of effectiveness thereto, if any, have been fulfilled; provided, however, 
that, as an alternative to the execution and delivery of such Subsidiary Contractual 
Arrangements, this condition shall be met if revolving accounts shall have been opened 
pursuant to subparagraph (B) (2) of paragraph (g) (i) of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement by the EMA or EMAs who have not executed and delivered such Subsidiary 
Contractual Arrangements.
Section 6.02. The date of June 26, 1996 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Carrera 7A, No. 645
Santa Fe de Bogota
Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINHACIENDA
4473
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  10
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Diego Pizano
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Paul Isenman
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated                 % of
                           (Expressed in              Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Goods for Parts A.5         423,000              50% of amounts paid
    and A.6 (b) of the                               by the Ministry or
    Project                                          on its behalf
(2) Goods for Parts B.7                              50% of amounts
    and B.8 (b)                                      paid by the EMA in
    of the Project:                                  question or on its
                                                     behalf
    (a) AREA                    720,000
    (b) DADIMA                  608,000
    (c) DAGMA                   720,000
(3) Consultants' services     2,409,000              50% of amounts
    for Part A of the                                paid by the Ministry
    Project (other than                              or on its behalf
    Part A.4), auditing
    services under Section
    4.01 of this Agreement
(4) Consultant services                              50% of amounts paid
    for Part B of the                                by the EMA in
    Project (other than                              question or on its
    Part B.5), auditing                              behalf
    services under Section
    4.01 of this Agreement
    and either fees of
    entity contracted under
    Subsidiary Contractual
    Arrangements or incremental
    administration services
    under Part B.8 (c) of the
    Project:
Page  11
    (a) AREA                  2,460,000
    (b) DADIMA                1,286,000
    (c) DAGMA                 2,405,000
    (d) DAMA                  3,217,000
(5) Training                  1,285,000               50% of amounts
    expenditures for                                  paid by the Ministry
    Part A.4 of the                                   or on its behalf
    Project
(6) Training                                          50% of amounts
    expenditures for                                  paid by the EMA in
    Part B.5 of                                       question or on its
    the Project:                                      behalf
    (a) AREA                    646,000
    (b) DADIMA                  356,000
    (c) DAGMA                   700,000
    (d) DAMA                    765,000
(7) Unallocated               2,000,000
                             __________
        TOTAL                20,000,000
                             ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "Training expenditures" means 
expenditures for training activities under the corresponding Agreed Work Plan incurred 
by the Ministry or an EMA (or on behalf thereof) in respect of consultant services and 
associated travel, purchases of training materials and equipment for the Ministry or 
an EMA, subsistence costs or perdiem for trainees and rental of training facilities 
and equipment.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $2,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after July 31, 1995; and (b) payments for expenditures under the 
corresponding Subcategory of Categories (2), (4) or (6) of the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, which expenditures are related to activities under Part 
B or the Project of any of the EMAs other that the two EMAs in respect of which the 
effectiveness conditions under paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 7.01 of this 
Agreement has been considered met by the Bank, unless: (i) the services of the key 
staff of the EMA in question have been hired in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(ii) the EMA Arrangements and Subsidiary Contractual Arrangements related to the EMA 
in question have been executed and delivered  and the conditions of effectiveness 
thereto, if any, have been fulfilled; provided, however that, as an
alternative to the execution and delivery of the applicable Subsidiary Contractual 
Arrangements, this condition shall be met, in respect of the EMA in question, if a 
revolving account shall have been opened thereby pursuant to the provisions of 
subparagraph (B) 2 of paragraph (g) (i) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent and for services of consultant firms and individual 
consultants not subject to prior review and costing less than the equivalent of 
$100,000 and $50,000 respectively, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  12
Description of the Project
The primary objective of the Project is to support implementation of the 
Borrower's National Environmental Policy and the improvement of environmental 
management capacity in urban areas by means of strengthening the Ministry's capacity 
to provide policy advice and technical assistance to Cities and EMAs and by 
strengthening EMAs. In support of the primary objective of the Project, additional 
objectives are to help establish those components of the NEIS, both at the national 
and local levels, which are instrumental to the improvement of urban environmental 
management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Design and Implementation of a Technical Assistance Strategy by the 
Ministry for the 
Cities
 
The strategy, when put into effect, will enable the Ministry, to carry out its 
mandate under Law 99 and to implement the Programa Mejores Ciudades; towards that end 
the following activities will be executed:
1.
Design of a technical assistance strategy for the Ministry that will comprise 
the preparation of environmental action plans in a number of Cities and the provision 
of technical
support to the CARs and Departmental and Municipal Authorities for the improvement of 
environmental management.
2.
Design and implementation of local planning tools and planning exercises, 
including:
(a)
definition of methodologies for local environmental planning appropriate 
to the range of institutional, technical and financial capabilities of the urban areas 
in question;
(b)
preparation of environmental action plans in cities selected in 
accordance with the steps and criteria agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;
(c)
developing mechanisms to ensure that the environmental criteria set forth 
under each plan prepared under Part A.2 (b) above are incorporated in the 
corresponding urban development plan; and
(d)
developing mechanisms to enable CARs to assist Municipal Authorities in 
Cities other that those selected under (b) above in the preparation of environmental 
action plans.
3.
Execution of sectoral, institutional, economic and other studies to assist the 
Ministry to identify and address common and typical urban environmental problems, 
develop appropriate management strategies and formulate technical assistance programs 
through which the Ministry might further support the implementation of the strategies 
so developed, including:
(i)
studies to clarify allocation of different types of environmental 
responsibilities between, inter alia, Municipal Authorities 
and CARs; 
(ii)
studies on financial sources and development of economic 
instruments for 
financing urban environmental management 
activities by the public sector; and 
(iii)
studies required to facilitate the implementation of Programa 
Mejores Ciudades  
and the development of sustainable management 
patterns for key activities or 
areas involving critical rural-urban 
interactions, including a study for Canal 
del Dique.
 
4.
Execution of a training program for Ministry's staff, and public sector agency 
and community representatives involved in environmental management activities, at 
Page  13
national, regional and local levels, including local seminars and short-term courses 
on environmental management issues, acquisition and utilization therefor of training 
equipment and materials, and training abroad in different aspects of environmental 
management for Ministry's staff and EMAs' staff.
5.
Putting in place information systems, including:
 
(a)
definition of the general concept and implementation strategy for the 
urban component of NEIS;
(b)
design, development and implementation of a management information system 
for the Ministry;
(c)
training for Ministry's information management staff; and
 
(d)
acquisition of computer and other equipment, and utilization thereof to 
make the systems in (a) and (b) above operative.
6.
Strengthening DAHP's operational capabilities by means of: (a) provision of 
consultant services to assist and complement DAHP staff in tasks of short to 
medium-term duration; and (b)
acquisition, installation if so required, and use, by DAHP, of the necessary office 
equipment and materials required for the execution of DAHP's activities under the 
Project; provided, however, that the reference to DAHP above shall be deemed expanded 
to other similar activities related to any administrative subdivision of the Ministry, 
if activities of, or for, such subdivision are included in one or more Agreed Work 
Plans.
Part B:
Strengthening of the Institutional and Technical Capacity of the EMAs.
 
The strengthening of each EMA will help it to carry out the environmental 
management functions specified in Title VI of Law 99, and will include for each EMA, 
unless specifically stated otherwise, the following activities:
1.
Design of each EMA's Organizational Structure and Administrative Procedures.
 
This will include the establishment of institutional mechanisms to facilitate  
intra-jurisdictional environmental management and inter-jurisdictional and 
inter-sectoral coordination, where appropriate, and citizen participation, in 
strategic priority setting exercises and in the design, implementation and evaluation 
of environmental projects and programs.
2.
Preparation of Urban Environmental Strategies and Corresponding Action Plans.
 
Revision or preparation, as the case may be, of an environmental strategy and 
action plans to be based on a rapid but thorough assessment of environmental issues, 
institutionalcapacities and constraints, in the short and medium term.
 
3.
Preparation of Pre-feasibility and Feasibility and other Studies.
 
Execution of studies for potential environmental investments and activities 
other than investments, as identified in each EMA's strategy and action plan, unless 
otherwise agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank in respect of one or more given studies which are intended 
to be carried out before the said strategy or plan, or both, are available, or to meet 
unexpected circumstances after the plan is issued.
4.
Preparation of the Regulatory Framework for Environmental Management, Licensing 
and Enforcement Procedures by each EMA.
Adapt and complement, as needed, legal provisions enacted or issued at a 
national level so as to adjust them to the particular circumstances and to the 
environmental objectives and institutional conditions of the area under jurisdiction 
of the EMA in question.
5.
Training.
 
Page  14
Execution of a training program for professional staff within each EMA, staff 
from other public agencies operating in the area under such EMA's jurisdiction, 
related CARs, community leaders and general public, including acquisition and 
utilization therefor of training equipment and materials and seminars and short 
courses, internship programs at the EMA in question, visiting professors to local 
universities or to the EMA, and university degree programs in the Borrower's
territory.
6.
Environmental Education and Public Participation.
 
In respect of each EMA other than DAMA, design and implementation of 
environmental education campaigns to raise public awareness and promote public 
involvement in urban environmental management, including acquisition and utilization 
of communications and training equipment and materials by the EMA in question.
7.
Information and Monitoring Systems.
 
Putting in place information and monitoring systems, including:
(a)
definition of the general concept and implementation strategy for urban 
environmental information and monitoring systems, within each EMA's jurisdiction, to 
be integrated into NEIS;
(b)
design, development and implementation of a management information system 
for each EMA and use thereof by the EMA;
(c)
training for each EMA's information management staff; and
 
(d)
acquisition of computer and other equipment, and utilization thereof to 
make the above systems operative.
8.
Strengthening of EMAs' Operational Capabilities.
 
This will be achieved by means of: (a) provision of consultant services to 
Unidad Ambiental  to assist it in tasks of short to medium-term duration complementing 
regular staff; (b) acquisition, installation if so required, and use, by each EMA, of 
the necessary office equipment and materials required for the execution of such EMA's 
activities under the Project; and (c) provision of incremental administration services 
to any EMA not contracting services under Subsidiary Contractual Arrangements.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning August 1, 2001
through   August 1, 2012
835,000
 
On February 1, 2013
795,000
 
Page  15
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                              0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                                0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                         0.88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years before                         1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under  contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part:
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
Page  16
to cost more than the equivalent of $250,000 each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods [and domestic contractors]
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Limited International Bidding
 
Computers estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or less per contract, and 
laboratory equipment which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number 
of suppliers,
regardless of the cost thereof, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,850,000, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Goods other than those referred to in C.1 above, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, as supplemented by the 
provisions of Part E of this Section.
3.
National Shopping
 
Goods other than those referred to in C.1 above, estimated to cost less than  
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $4,000,000, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, 
provided, however, that the aggregate amount of goods to be procured under national 
shopping by each of the EMAs or the Ministry shall not exceed 10% of the respective 
estimated aggregate budgets corresponding to Agreed Work Plans of the EMA in question 
or the Ministry, as the case may be.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding, if any, or 
to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished 
to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured under Parts B, C.1 and 
C.2 of Section I of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Part E:
Procurement Provisions Concerning National Competitive Bidding
 
1.
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians, will be 
treated equally and, particularly, no preference will be granted to any bidder or 
group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. Bidders shall be allowed to submit their 
bids by hand or through the post office or private mailing services. There shall not 
be any requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's registration in any 
public registry, chamber of commerce or similar entity, whether in Colombia or 
Page  17
elsewhere, or to appoint a representative domiciled in Colombia, unless and until such 
bidder is awarded the corresponding contract.
2.
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and place for 
the opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents. Bid opening shall 
coincide with, or take place promptly after, the final date and time of the period for 
bid submission stipulated in the bidding documents.
3.
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid. Such 
determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions 
and evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional 
to the amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid
evaluation, such factor or factors and the quantified manner in which they will be 
applied for purposes of determining the lowest evaluated bidder, shall be precisely 
stipulated in the bidding documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, 
the only bid amount or amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or 
amounts as quoted in corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors.
4.
The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, more 
specifically, bids shall not be disclosed, without the corresponding bidder's written 
authorization, to persons other than the persons officially charged with the task of 
comparing and/or evaluating the bids
while they are performing their official duties. Moreover, bidders shall not be 
required to provide such authorization as a condition to be entitled to bid. This 
confidentiality requirement shall apply until the award of contract is notified to the 
successful bidder. Thereafter, confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those 
bid portions for which confidentiality has been specifically requested by the bidder 
in question.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
Page  18
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000  
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account  plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $6,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Page  19
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that  the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special  Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the  Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule  shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
