Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15984-KH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CAMBODIA
AGRICULTURE PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
January 31, 1997
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Country Department 1
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of December 1997)
US$1 = 2720 Riels
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB           Asian Development Bank
ADC           Agricultural Development Center
ACR           Australian Catholic Relief
ADOR          Agricultural Development Options Review (FAO/ADB)
APIP          Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
ASM           Agriculture Sector Memorandum
AUSAID        Australian Aid
CAAEP         Cambodia-Australia Agricultural Extension Project
CARD          Council for Agriculture and Rural Development
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CARERE2       Cambodian Area Rehabilitation and Regeneration Programme (UNDP)
CDAI          Chamcar Daung Agricultural Institute (now RUA)
CDC           Cambodian Development Council
CEA           community extension agents
CFD           Caisse francaise de developpement
CG            Consultative Group
CIAP          Cambodia-IRRI-Australia Project
CIRAD         Centre de cooperation internationale en recherche agronomique pour le
developpement
CMAC          Cambodian Mine Action Center
CWS           Church World Service
DANIDA        Danish International Development Assistance
DAPH          Department of Animal Production and Health
DAETE         Department of Agricultural Extension Technology & Economics
DGPH          Direction Generale des Plantations d'Heveas
DOA           Department of Agronomy
DOF           Department of Forestry
DPSIC         Department of Planning, Statistics & International Cooperation
Vice President (ag.):  Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Director:              Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Division Chief/Manager:  Jeffrey Gutman
Staff Member:           Christopher Redfern



- 2 -
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization
GDIHM         General Directorate of Irrigation and Hydro-Meteorology
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GRET          Groupe de recherche et d'echanges technologiques
HS            haemorrhagic septicaemia
IDA           International Development Association (World Bank)
IDRC          International Development and Research Center (Canada)
IFAD          International Fund for Agricultural Development
INM           integrated nutrient management
IPM           integrated pest management
IRCC          Institut de recherche sur le caoutchouc au cambodge
ITF           Interim Trust Fund (IDA)
MAFF          Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
MEF           Ministry of Economy and Finance
MRC           Mekong River Commission
MRD           Ministry of Rural Development
NAHPIC        National Animal Health & Production Investigation Center
NGO           non-government organization
NPRDC         National Program to Rehabilitate and Develop Cambodia
NVDL          National Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory
O&M           operation and maintenance
PLAC          Prek Leap Agricultural College
PRDC          Provincial Rural Development Committee
RGC           Royal Government of Cambodia
RUA           Royal University of Agriculture
TCP           Technical Cooperation Program (FAO)
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
VDC           Village Development Committee
VV            village vet
VPL           Vaccine Production Laboratory
WB            World Bank
WFP           World Food Program
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31






CAMBODIA
AGRICULTURE PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Contents
Credit and Project Summary ..........................                                                                                  i
1. PROJECT RATIONALE ........................                                                                                         I
A. Country Background ..............................1
B. Sectoral Background ...............1
C. Rationale for IDA Involvement ..............................4
D. Lessons from Previous Involvement ..............................4
2. PROJECT DESCRIPTION ........................                                                                                       6
A. Proj et Prep ara n6tion .............................6
B. Project Objectives ...............6
C.  Proj et Descriptio8ion .............................
Agronomy, Seeds and Plant Protection .............................................................................................................8..........8
Anim al He  alth   and   Production.9 .......................................................................................................... 9
A g ric ultural   H ydraulics.9 ......................................................................................................................   9
M A   F S re  g h  n   g    Com p nents  . ..... .......... ... ...... .. .... .. ........ .... ........ .................................. .................... 90
Smallholder Rubber Research ............ ....... ........ 10
MAFF Strengthening Components..............................................1.....................................0.......... 10
D. Expected Outputs.11
This report is based on the findings of IDA pre-appraisal and appraisal missions that visited Cambodia in February
and June 1996, respectively. The missions comprised Christopher Redfem (task manager), Philippe Boyer
(agronomist), Mostafa El-Erian (lawyer), Charles Maguire (agricultural training specialist), Susan Tamondong-
Helin  (sociologist) and  David  Sislen  (project analyst). Youqiong  Wang  (project controller), Louise  Bevan
(agricultural economist) and Harry Franks (agricultural institutions specialist) participated for IFAD. The
contributions of the following consultants funded under French, Japanese and Swedish grants for project preparation
are acknowledged: Jacques Arrivets (agronomist), Ian Hancock (agronomist), Jeffrey Himel (water resources
engineer), Mogens Lemonius (seeds specialist), Ken MacKay (fisheries) and Murray Maclean (veterinarian). The
component for planning and statistics strengthening was prepared with the assistance of David Marshall and Jack
Corwell (FAO) and Baden Cameron (AusAid consultant). Document clearance was provided by Jeffrey Gutman
(Division Chief, EAIAE), Walter Schwermer (Project Adviser, EAI) and Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi (Director,
EA 1). Assistance in preparing the documents was provided by Saraswathi Sundaram.



- 2 -
3. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ..........................................                                                                      14
A. Project Costs .................................................                                                                          14
B. Project Financing .................................................                                                                      17
C. Disbursement .................................................                                                                           19
D. Procurement .................................................                                                                            21
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..........................................                                                                          24
A. Project Organization .................................................                                                                   24
B. Project Management .................................................                                                                     24
C. Performance Indicators .................................................                                                                 27
D. Monitoring, Supervision, Evaluation and Reporting .................................................                                     29
E. Accounts and Auditing .................................................                                                                  30
5. PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .......................................... 31
A. Project Benefits .................................................                                                                      31
B. Economic Analysis and Justification .................................................                                                   32
C. Sustainability .................................................                                                                        33
D. Risk Assessment and Management .................................................                                                        34
6. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION ..........................................                                                                    36
A. Agreements Reached .................................................                                                                    36
B. Recommendation .................................................                                                                        37
ANNEXES
1.         Detailed Cost Tables
2.         Performance and Impact Indicators
3.         Economic and Risk Analysis
4.         Institutional Analysis of the MAFF
5.         Project Management Unit: Structure and Terms of Reference
6.         Recommendations for Strengthening Gender Awareness
7.         Procurement and Disbursement Schedule
CHARTS AND MAPS
Figure 1:             Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
Map:                  IBRD No. 27954



CAMBODIA
AGRICULTURE PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower           :  Kingdom of Cambodia
Implementing Agency:  Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
Beneficiary           N/A
Poverty            :  Program of Targeted Interventions.
Amount                 SDR 18.8 million (about US$27.0 million equivalent)
Terms                 Standard IDA (ITF) terms with 40 years' maturity
Commitment Fee    :  0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing.
Onlending Terms       N/A
Financing Plan         See Schedule A
ERR                :  ERR of 38% (improved seed production), 36% (animal health and
production), 26% (IPM) and 11% (agricultural hydraulics)
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 15984-KH
Map                :  IBRD No. 27954
Project Identification:  4033






1. PROJECT RATIONALE
A. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
1.1   With a 1995 population of about 10.25 million and an estimated GNP per capita of
US$260, Cambodia is one of the world's poorest nations. In stark contrast to some of its South
East Asian neighbors with dynamic and fast growing economies, the country is still recovering
from 25 years of war and isolation, during which much of its physical, social and economic
infrastructure was destroyed. Following a period of almost exclusive assistance from the former
Communist Bloc (1979-1988), the Paris Peace Accords of October 1991 opened up the country
to wider rehabilitation assistance by bilateral and multilateral donors as well as international
NGOs. The Paris Accords also paved the way for national elections held under the aegis of the
United Nations Transitional Authority of Cambodia (UNTAC), culminating in the formation of a
coalition Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC) at the end of October 1993.
1.2   The new Government has embarked, with the support of the international community, on
a comprehensive medium-term program of macroeconomic stabilization that would help
Cambodia successfully complete its recent re-orientation towards a free market economy. Major
policy interventions have been directed at bringing down the budget deficit and rate of inflation,
at raising tax revenues and improving tax administration, and reforming the monetary sector. The
tighter financial policies have started to yield results, notably with the rate of inflation falling to
an estimated 3.5 percent in 1995 as compared to triple-digit figures in 1992-93.
1.3  In fact, successful long-term development of agriculture will be crucial in helping
Cambodia to meet the numerous challenges that it faces. Amongst these are the need to feed a
population that, at its present growth rate of about 3% p.a., will double in 25 years, and to
contain unsupportable urban migration by creating opportunities of productive employment in
the rural economy for a young and growing population (about half are under 15 years of age). A
critical challenge is therefore to rebuild the Government's capacity to plan, formulate and
execute agriculture and rural development programs.
B. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
1.4   Most Cambodian households depend on agriculture and its related subsectors of livestock
rearing, fisheries and forest exploitation for their living. There are estimated to be about 1 million
farming households of which a substantial minority, perhaps as high as 35 percent, is headed by
women without access to adult male labor. Agriculture constitutes half of Cambodia's GDP and
involves about 80% of the labor force. Crops, grown both for food and for other products such as
rubber, account for roughly 30% of GDP, livestock raising for another 15%, fishing for an
estimated 4 to 5%, and forestry for I to 2%. Rice is the most important crop, accounting for one-
third of the total estimated value of agricultural production; rice, vegetables, fish and some meat



- 2 -
are the staples of the Cambodian diet. Rubber and timber are the country's most important export
commodities, recently comprising 75% of total domestic exports; but small quantities of other
agricultural products, including live cattle, rice, fruits and fish, are also traded to neighboring
countries, which represent important markets for future development of the sector.
1.5    Agriculture research, planning and development, including that of the livestock, forestry
and fishery subsectors, as well as management of water resources for all agricultural uses, is
under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry & Fisheries (MAFF) which is
organized on the basis of seven technical departments which control their own staff in the
provinces, with a total of about 12,000 employees. Although many of these staff have useful
training and work experience from earlier years, the Ministry does not presently have the budget
or responsibility for implementing major projects, apart from irrigation rehabilitation works
funded by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) under its Special Rehabilitation Assistance Loan.
All agricultural research is presently being done under externally funded projects, for rice
notably by IRRI under a project funded by Australia. France plans to support the re-
establishment of a research institute for rubber (IRCC). Responsibility for coordinating rural
development activities lies with the Ministry of Rural Development, which now has about 1,200
employees and is involved in organizing rural water supply, rural roads, rural credit, village
health and community development programs, often in collaboration with projects started by
NGOs and international organizations. Important decisions by the Government affecting the
relative roles and responsibilities of these and other agencies operating in the rural sector are
increasingly being taken by a Coordinating Committee for Agriculture & Rural Development
(CCARD) on which all agencies concerned are represented under the chairmanship of the Second
Prime Minister. The CCARD is likely to be the Government's overall coordinating body for this
and future Bank-supported projects for agriculture and rural development. Coordination of
activities at provincial level is increasingly provided through Provincial Rural Development
Committees (PRDC), chaired by the Provincial Governors.
1.6    Although agricultural production recovered quite strongly over the last decade,
productivity levels are still low compared with those in other countries in the region, indicating
that opportunities for raising them through improved technology and other means should be
substantial. However, there are important constraints on how quickly this can be achieved,
relating to technical, economic and socio-political factors. Yield of main crops, especially rice, is
quite varied between different agro-ecological zones and very unpredictable from one season to
the next, dependent on climatic events. In both 1994 and 1996, extensive flooding resulted in
considerable crop damage, amounting to about 15% of the normal expected crop. Above-average
rice production in 1995/96, which permitted limited rice exports to be resumed, was attributable
to favorable rainfall, an increase in the use of inorganic fertilizers and a restoration of natural soil
fertility as a result of flooding of the central plains the previous year. Consequently, year-to-year
fluctuations in rice supply are likely to recur.
1.7   This yield uncertainty is the result of many factors, including a low proportion of cropped
area under irrigation, difficulties in achieving satisfactory water control on often poorly
engineered irrigation schemes, unusually variable soil conditions, and restricted availability of
modem technology inputs that could potentially reduce crop losses from drought, pest and



1. PROJECT RATIONALE
A. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
1.1   With a 1995 population of about 10.25 million and an estimated GNP per capita of
US$260, Cambodia is one of the world's poorest nations. In stark contrast to some of its South
East Asian neighbors with dynamic and fast growing economies, the country is still recovering
from 25 years of war and isolation, during which much of its physical, social and economic
infrastructure was destroyed. Following a period of almost exclusive assistance from the former
Communist Bloc (1979-1988), the Paris Peace Accords of October 1991 opened up the country
to wider rehabilitation assistance by bilateral and multilateral donors as well as international
NGOs. The Paris Accords also paved the way for national elections held under the aegis of the
United Nations Transitional Authority of Cambodia (UNTAC), culminating in the formation of a
coalition Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC) at the end of October 1993.
1.2   The new Government has embarked, with the support of the international community, on
a comprehensive medium-term program of macroeconomic stabilization that would help
Cambodia successfully complete its recent re-orientation towards a free market economy. Major
policy interventions have been directed at bringing down the budget deficit and rate of inflation,
at raising tax revenues and improving tax administration, and reforming the monetary sector. The
tighter financial policies have started to yield results, notably with the rate of inflation falling to
an estimated 3.5 percent in 1995 as compared to triple-digit figures in 1992-93.
1.3  In fact, successful long-term development of agriculture will be crucial in helping
Cambodia to meet the numerous challenges that it faces. Amongst these are the need to feed a
population that, at its present growth rate of about 3% p.a., will double in 25 years, and to
contain unsupportable urban migration by creating opportunities of productive employment in
the rural economy for a young and growing population (about half are under 15 years of age). A
critical challenge is therefore to rebuild the Government's capacity to plan, formulate and
execute agriculture and rural development programs.
B. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
1.4   Most Cambodian households depend on agriculture and its related subsectors of livestock
rearing, fisheries and forest exploitation for their living. There are estimated to be about 1 million
farming households of which a substantial minority, perhaps as high as 35 percent, is headed by
women without access to adult male labor. Agriculture constitutes half of Cambodia's GDP and
involves about 80% of the labor force. Crops, grown both for food and for other products such as
rubber, account for roughly 30% of GDP, livestock raising for another 15%, fishing for an
estimated 4 to 5%, and forestry for 1 to 2%. Rice is the most important crop, accounting for one-
third of the total estimated value of agricultural production; rice, vegetables, fish and some meat



- 2 -
are the staples of the Cambodian diet. Rubber and timber are the country's most important export
commodities, recently comprising 75% of total domestic exports; but small quantities of other
agricultural products, including live cattle, rice, fruits and fish, are also traded to neighboring
countries, which represent important markets for future development of the sector.
1.5    Agriculture research, planning and development, including that of the livestock, forestry
and fishery subsectors, as well as management of water resources for all agricultural uses, is
under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry & Fisheries (MAFF) which is
organized on the basis of seven technical departments which control their own staff in the
provinces, with a total of about 12,000 employees. Although many of these staff have useful
training and work experience from earlier years, the Ministry does not presently have the budget
or responsibility for implementing major projects, apart from irrigation rehabilitation works
funded by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) under its Special Rehabilitation Assistance Loan.
All agricultural research is presently being done under externally funded projects, for rice
notably by IRRI under a project funded by Australia. France plans to support the re-
establishment of a research institute for rubber (IRCC). Responsibility for coordinating rural
development activities lies with the Ministry of Rural Development, which now has about 1,200
employees and is involved in organizing rural water supply, rural roads, rural credit, village
health and community development programs, often in collaboration with projects started by
NGOs and international organizations. Important decisions by the Government affecting the
relative roles and responsibilities of these and other agencies operating in the rural sector are
increasingly being taken by a Coordinating Committee for Agriculture & Rural Development
(CCARD) on which all agencies concerned are represented under the chairmanship of the Second
Prime Minister. The CCARD is likely to be the Government's overall coordinating body for this
and future Bank-supported projects for agriculture and rural development. Coordination of
activities at provincial level is increasingly provided through Provincial Rural Development
Committees (PRDC), chaired by the Provincial Governors.
1.6     Although agricultural production recovered quite strongly over the last decade,
productivity levels are still low compared with those in other countries in the region, indicating
that opportunities for raising them through improved technology and other means should be
substantial. However, there are important constraints on how quickly this can be achieved,
relating to technical, economic and socio-political factors. Yield of main crops, especially rice, is
quite varied between different agro-ecological zones and very unpredictable from one season to
the next, dependent on climatic events. In both 1994 and 1996, extensive flooding resulted in
considerable crop damage, amounting to about 15% of the normal expected crop. Above-average
rice production in 1995/96, which permitted limited rice exports to be resumed, was attributable
to favorable rainfall, an increase in the use of inorganic fertilizers and a restoration of natural soil
fertility as a result of flooding of the central plains the previous year. Consequently, year-to-year
fluctuations in rice supply are likely to recur.
1.7   This yield uncertainty is the result of many factors, including a low proportion of cropped
area under irrigation, difficulties in achieving satisfactory water control on often poorly
engineered irrigation schemes, unusually variable soil conditions, and restricted availability of
modern technology inputs that could potentially reduce crop losses from drought, pest and



disease. The three decades of civil war have destroyed vital data and the technical knowledge
needed to use these data, severely depleted the agricultural labor force, leaving many women
with the responsibility of farm as well as household management, and displaced rural families
from their original land holdings. Poor transport and communications and continuing insecurity
in parts of the country only aggravate the problem by making it more costly for farmers and
traders to move surplus product and other supplies from one area to another.
1.8   Constraints on agricultural productivity, including low resiliency of production systems
to flooding, drought, pest and disease, result in regional and localized shortfalls in supplying the
minimum nutritional needs of rural residents for rice and other basic foods. Reaching national
self-sufficiency in rice production has remained elusive, necessitating an unsustainable reliance
on external food aid. The high cost of transporting rice and other foods, along with the inability
of poorer residents to pay, means that even if aggregate production is sufficient for national
needs, pockets of the rural poor go hungry. With the system of collectivized agriculture officially
dissolved in 1989 and land privatization given legal backing in 1991, public supports (including
provision of agricultural inputs, basic commodity distribution, and price setting) have been
progressively removed. The impact of these changes is uneven, likely contributing to an increase
in agricultural production, but also placing disproportionate strain on vulnerable groups
including recent returnees, internally displaced persons, landless and land-poor rural residents,
and rural households, such as those headed by widows, lacking in family labor. In general, these
are the groups put at greatest risk in times of local food shortage.
1.9   Rice, which supplies about 75% of the calories consumed by Cambodians, is grown on
over 90% of the currently cropped area. In 1989-91 Cambodia was considered close to food self-
sufficiency, producing an annual average of some 2.5 million tons of paddy. The droughts and
flooding that have damaged rice crops in parts of the country each year since 1990, however,
have partly frustrated the attempts to increase aggregate rice production, while mines and
insecurity problems have kept farmers away from otherwise cultivable areas. Due to the refugee
repatriation and an estimated population growth rate of 2.7% per annum, paddy production
would need to reach approximately 3.0 million tons by 2000 to assure national self sufficiency
(based on FAO minimum nutritional requirements).
1.10  Moreover, even if overall rice production is adequate at a national or regional level,
constraints on the transport and marketing of rice and other basic foods still pose significant
obstacles to achieving household food security. In the past, heavy government regulation could
be blamed as the main impediment to output growth. In the mid 1980s, controls on rural mobility
and restrictions on private trade were significant, but the market liberalizing reforms introduced
since 1989 removed most such regulatory constraints. More recently, a ban on rice exports
limited the potential of farmers to increase incomes through access to the export market. The
Government agreed to lift the ban on rice exports in late 1994, but delayed the official lifting
until late 1995 because of the poor 1994/95 rice harvest. The Government's commitment to an
open export policy for rice is important in signaling to farmers that investments in increasing
domestic food production are worthwhile. National food security is not put at risk with such a
policy because of Cambodia's proximity to two major rice exporters.



-4 -
1.11  Beyond the need for clear policy signals, two factors stand out as pressing constraints on
agricultural marketing. First is the poor state of transport infrastructure that makes distributing
the stocks to rural areas experiencing a rice deficit very costly. Second is the widespread practice
of illegal road "taxation," whereby various groups levy a toll on road users. WFP reports that,
though rice remained available in Phnom Penh and province centers in 1995, villages outside a
15-20 kilometer radius generally did not have access to these supplies in times of local shortage.
This is partly due to the high transaction costs in food transport.
C. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
1.12  In its presentations to the CG meeting held in July 1996, the Cambodian Government has
made clear the top priority given in its development strategy to achieving early and sustainable
improvements in agricultural production and poverty reduction in the rural areas. Furthermore, in
the context of its efforts to reinforce the political basis for national reconciliation, the two Prime
Ministers have repeatedly stressed the urgency of formulating and implementing sound projects
for agriculture and rural development, as the principal means to bring about peace and security in
the countryside. The Bank's assistance program fully reflects this priority, and the design of the
proposed project responds to the strategic objectives set out in the Country Assistance Strategy
dated January 28, 1997 and scheduled for Board discussion on February 20, 1997. Specifically
the project supports the strategic objectives of "enhancing rural development and natural
resource management" and "improving the human resource base and reducing poverty" (draft
CAS, paras. 39 and 42). Complementing the proposed project, identification has taken place of a
possible IDA-financed Rural Development Project for FY98/99, with components for rural
transport and water supply improvement, agricultural and other income-generating activities, and
institutional strengthening at local levels in four northeastern provinces, which would build upon
the agricultural field development programs to be started under APIP. Clarification of the policy
and institutional framework for both of these projects has been assisted by discussion with
Government and other agencies of an Agriculture Sector Memorandum.
D. LESSONS FROM PREVIOUS INVOLVEMENT
1.13  The Emergency Rehabilitation Project (ERP), Credit 2550-KH, was approved in
November 1993 and is now closed. The major part of the US$63 million equivalent Credit
financed critical imports needed by the private sector, while the rest financed the foreign
exchange costs of rehabilitation sub-projects in six sectors. Following a mid-term review in
October 1994, the amount earmarked for agriculture (and some other sectors) was reduced, both
because of a lack of well prepared rehabilitation projects, and because of a pressing need to
reallocate funds to investments in the power sector and for general imports. The restructuring of
the agriculture component resulted in the elimination of several sub-projects whose technical
feasibility or implementation within the agreed time-frame looked uncertain. As a result of the



-5 -
restructuring, successful implementation of ERP agriculture subcomponents has helped pave the
way for some of the components of the proposed project.'
1.14 The main lessons learned from implementing the agriculture component of the ERP are:
(i) in Cambodia's present transitional stage of development, the Government's absorptive
capacity for planning and implementing projects is still very limited and needs to be
supplemented for an interim period with technical assistance; (ii) at the same time, the risk of
creating a long-term dependency on foreign technical assistance should be avoided by involving
local staff in project design and implementation at an early stage, improving incentives for
initiative and performance, and providing more relevant and better organized training; (iii)
project design and management arrangements should be kept simple in terms of their demands on
central government coordination and implementation capacity, with attention also paid to
decentralizing responsibility for implementation to the provincial levels; and (iv) despite efforts
being made in the Finance Ministry to overhaul the budgetary system, systems for making timely
transfer of funds to the line departments and provinces remain weak and will require continued
attention.
The components concerned are those for agronomy, livestock, fisheries, agricultural hydraulics, and
smaliholder rubber.



- 6 -
2. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. PROJECT PREPARATION
2.1   Most of the cost of project preparation was covered by a grant from the Japan Policy and
Human Resource Development Fund of Yen 42.4 million (US$0.4 million equivalent), of which
approximately half was used to finance agronomy, irrigation, fisheries, sociology and agricultural
economics specialists for the preparation of this project and for pre-implementation assistance to
the MAFF; the balance is being used for preparation of a rural development project under the
aegis of the MRD. At the request of the Government of Cambodia, trust funds for project
preparation were administered by the Bank. The Swedish SIDA trust fund financed a veterinarian
who helped to update and expand the livestock component prepared by IFAD in 1994. The
French general consultant trust fund financed a research agronomist from CIRAD who
contributed to the preparation of the agronomy component. CIRAD also prepared the
smallholder rubber research component. FAO and IDRC (Canada) helped prepare the IPM and
fisheries components. FAO prepared the agricultural statistics component; and the FAO
Cooperative Programme provided a seeds industry specialist for preparation of the seeds
production component. Bank missions and MAFF staff worked together closely throughout
project preparation to incorporate the above contributions into the final project design.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.2   The project's overall objective, in line with the major goals of government policy in the
sector, is the sustainable and broad-based improvement of smallholder agricultural productivity
as a means to improved food security and increased rural incomes. In the longer term, the
agricultural sector is also expected to earn needed foreign exchange through exported surpluses,
save foreign exchange through import substitution, and contribute government revenue to cover
investment and recurrent costs of providing public services to the sector. This goal recognises: (i)
Cambodia's commitment to a market-based economic development strategy; (ii) that aggregate
agricultural production is a function of decisions made by individual farmers, who already invest
their own resources in agricultural production at high risk and for low returns (crop losses, crop
failure, livestock disease/mortality, civil insecurity, unknown markets); and (iii) that reduced
risks and increased returns could be assisted though improved farmer access to information,
appropriate technology, inputs and markets.
2.3   The project's underlying premise is that MAFF has, and will continue to have, an
important responsibility to the 80% of Cambodia's population who derive their livelihood from
agriculture, which at present MAFF does not have the capacity to fulfil. As defined in MAFF's
draft mission statement, its role is "to support the economic growth of Cambodia by provising
high quality services which result in a secure food supply, increased agricultural output and add
value on a sustainable and cost effective basis to the agricultural, fishing and forest based
sectors". The project would help to build the necessary institutional capacity in MAFF, in part by



implementing pilot field programs as a means of (i) gaining experience in the planning,
organization and management of agricultural development programs; (ii) adapting, testing and
demonstrating improved agricultural technology under field conditions; and (iii) more generally
developing MAFF's understanding of and responsiveness to the needs of its client base.
2.4   The project would promote sustainable agricultural development by creating a MAFF that
is enabling, responsive, accountable and cost effective. MAFF's evolving role and responsibility
within a market-based economy will be to:
(a)   create an environment wherein smallholder farmers, who are predominantly poor
and largely excluded from the market economy, can gain access to basic
agricultural services and the opportunity to use new technology;
(b)   adapt, test, and demonstrate new technology appropriate to the country's different
agro-ecological zones, which responds to local priorities and is economically
beneficial to farmers;
(c)   regulate farming practices so as to ensure sustainability of natural resources and to
protect the health and welfare of the rural population;
(d)   provide public, and some private, goods and services used by the agricultural
sector (e.g. annual stocks of rice foundation seed) on a cost recovery basis;
(e)   license and regulate the provision of private goods and services (such as crop
inputs, veterinary services and water) so that consumer and farmer interests are
appropriately safeguarded.
2.5   Recognizing the above, the proposed project would consist of a coordinated five-year
program to improve the quantity and quality of the technical, human and physical resources of
MAFF needed to promote sustainable agricultural development. This would be achieved through
carrying out (i) programs in each of the main agricultural subsectors comprising essential
knowledge acquisition, technology testing and adaptation, field development activities, priority
rehabilitation investments, and (ii) a major effort in MAFF human resource development. The
sum total of these activities should lead by project completion to the building of substantial
capacity in MAFF to plan, coordinate and implement successful agricultural development
programs for the benefit of and with the participation of the rural populations concerned, and to
substantial benefits for farmers in the areas of the pilot field programs in terms of increased crop
and livestock production (see para. 2.14 for expected project outputs). The project design is
sufficiently flexible and comprehensive to provide a framework capable of absorbing technical
assistance and other interventions for institutional strengthening of MAFF which may be
provided by other donor agencies.



-8 -
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.6   The project would comprise nine components addressing priority development needs of
2
the MAFF. Five components would be carried out by MAFF technical departments , and three
would be implemented from the Ministry level -- for strengthening agricultural planning and
statistics, for establishing a human resource management capability, and for strengthening of
provincial agriculture services. The other component would be the establishment of a project
management unit (PMU) within the Ministry to manage the project. Organization of the
components by responsible department was adopted to facilitate preparation and management of
the project; there would, however, be substantial collaboration fostered between the departments,
both at headquarters and especially in the field, in implementing the project. The individual
components are described below.
Agronomy, Seeds and Plant Protection
2.7   This is the largest and most important of the Project's components, accounting for 29% of
total costs. It aims at strengthening the capacity of the Department of Agronomy (DOA) to
develop appropriate technologies and formulate technical recommendations to farmers for
improving rice and other annual crop production, with a view to achieving greater food security
and increased farmer incomes while ensuring sustainability of farming practices. The component
does not seek to develop DOA's capacity to undertake research per se, but rather to fill the
critical gap between research and extension. It aims to provide DOA with the capacity to: (i)
coordinate agricultural research effectively, to ensure that research programs on crop technology
are formulated in accordance with the country's priorities; (ii) collect and analyze regional and
local data on the main factors of production, with a view to identifying constraints and
improving the base of technical knowledge that supports agricultural policy making; (iii) test
technologies developed by research with a view to formulating suitable recommendations to
farmers; (iv) lay the basis for modem seed industry in Cambodia capable of supplying farmers
with higher yielding and better quality seed for rice and other food crops; (v) promote
appropriate farming practices to ensure the sustainability of natural resources and protect the
natural environment and the health of farming families from the increasing use of dangerous
pesticides by educating them in IPM and other safer methods of pest control; and (vi) provide
technical support to agricultural extension workers and staff of the provincial agriculture
services.
2.8   The DOA component would consist of: (a) a Technical Coordination and Capacity
Building sub-component (US$1 .5m) and five technical sub-components: (b) Soil Fertility
Management and Conservation (US$1.0 m); (c) Farming Systems and Crop Diversification
(US$0.9 m); (d) Seed Production Program (US$3.5m); (e) Plant Protection Service
Establishment (US$1.lm); and (f) Integrated Pest Management (US$1.5 m). Each sub-
component would receive technical assistance support and the necessary funding for training
national staff, supplying equipment, construction or rehabilitation of selected infrastructure and
2  In this report the term "departments" also includes the Ministry's two General Directorates (Directions
Generales) for Irrigation and Hydro-Meteorology (GDIHM) and Rubber Production (DGPH).



-9-
incremental operating expenditures. Long term TA (one expert each for up to five years) for
subcomponents (c) and (f) would be provided respectively by CIRAD (France) and the FAO
regional IPM unit based in Manila; their costs are not included in the project.
Animal Health and Production.
2.9   All types of livestock in Cambodia suffer from very high morbidity and mortality rates,
due to the inability of Government services or the private sector to deliver basic animal health
services, for which there exists cost-effective technology and demand from farmers. This
component of the project, to be implemented by the Department of Animal Health and
Production (DAHP), would build on the experience of successful NGO livestock programs and a
pilot scheme started under the Bank ERP. There would be three subcomponents: (a) Disease
Control and Management ($2.5 m) which would improve the DAHP central support services for
animal disease diagnosis and vaccine production; (b) a Basic Animal Health program in four
provinces where livestock raising is particularly important for the local economy ($2.2 m); and
(c) Promotion of Animal Production through an extension program for improved animal
husbandry and nutrition ($0.2 m). Because subcomponent (b) depends on the successful
introduction in four provinces of a system of privatized village vets to provide basic animal
health services to farmers, with training and initial support from DAHP, it was agreed during
negotiations that by December 31, 1997 the Government would adopt a national plan for
training, registration and licensing of village vets satisfactory to IFAD and the Association. The
base cost of the component as a whole, which would be financed in parallel by IFAD, is
estimated at $4.9 million (15% of total costs).
Agricultural Hydraulics
2.10  The agricultural hydraulics component of the project is intended to provide the General
Department of Irrigation, Hydrology & Meteorology (GDIHM) with the basic skills, knowledge
and equipment to function effectively not only as the MAFF department with the responsibility
for managing water for all agricultural uses but also as the only government agency currently
with the mandate to plan the use of water resources across sectoral and local boundaries. The
component would consist of four subcomponents: (a) GDIHM Capacity Building ($0.7m); (b)
Hydrology Information System Development ($1.0m); (c) Small Scale Agricultural Hydraulics
($2.7m); and (d) Medium Scale Agricultural Hydraulics ($0.9m). The four subcomponents are
designed with two complementary objectives in mind: to help strengthen the technical, human
and physical resources of the GDIHM; and to improve farmer incomes and food security in
selected pilot provinces through provision of water for supplementary irrigation as well as
fishing, livestock and domestic use.
Fisheries
2.11  The overall objective of this component, to be implemented by the Department of
Fisheries (DOF), is to help improve Cambodians' livelihood and nutrition by sustaining the yield
of freshwater fisheries through better management of the capture fishery and increasing the
production of fingerlings for fish rearing. The specific objectives are to: improve the



-10-
conservation and management of the capture fisheries, with a focus on freshwater fisheries;
improve the supply of seed for aquaculture, with a focus on indigenous fish species; and
strengthen the Department of Fisheries to carry out its mandate. There would be three
subcomponents: (a) fisheries conservation and management ($1.5 m), comprising demarcation of
fish sanctuaries in the Tonle Sap, habitat improvement, equipping the DOF fisheries inspection
units for more effective regulation enforcement, and related information and training activities;
(b) rehabilitation of a freshwater fisheries research station at Chriang Chamres on the Tonle Sap
River in order to improve the production and supply of fingerlings of indigenous species for local
fish raising enterprises ($1.0 m); and (c) DOF capacity building, for which training and short
term technical assistance would be supplied in policy, finance and administration, human
resource development, fisheries law and statistics ($0.5 m). It is expected that long term technical
assistance to the DOF to assist it in carrying out subcomponent (a) will be provided under an
extension of an ongoing DANIDA/MRC project for management of the freshwater capture
fisheries of Cambodia.
Smallholder Rubber Research
2.12 The component, to be implemented by the Department of Rubber Production (DGPH), is
designed to obtain the technical data needed to confirm the country's suitability for smallholder
rubber development, through formulation and implementation of a smallholder rubber research
program and training of national research scientists and technicians. The project would comprise
technical assistance of a senior rubber research specialist for five years (to be provided and
funded by CIRAD, France), vehicles, office and laboratory equipment, and related incremental
operating expenses. Total costs are estimated at $1.7 million.
MAFF Strengthening Components
2.13  Three components are situated organizationally at Ministry level:
(a)   Human Resource Management (HRM): technical assistance would be provided to
establish and train a Human Resource Management Unit attached to the
Department of Personnel which would establish a MAFF personnel data base,
train HRD managers in the MAFF and departmental personnel departments, carry
out organizational and job analyses, carry out training needs assessments, prepare
training plans for each department and unit of the Ministry involved in the project,
and manage the selection, evaluation and career development of staff selected into
project positions. It was agreed during negotiations that the Government would
prepare and send for IDA's comments the annual training programs to be carried
out under the Project. This work would provide the information and in-house
skills needed to support the ongoing reorganization of the Ministry as well as an
expansion and more effective use of training. The cost is estimated at $1.7
million;
(b)   Support to Provincial Departments of Agriculture: the component would provide
for rehabilitation of buildings, office equipment, training, workshops and



- 11 -
incremental operating expenses for five MAFF provincial offices 3 to support the
project's field activities. The cost is estimated at $0.4 million; and
(c)    Strengthening of Planning and Statistics. These two subcomponents, to be
implemented by the Ministry's Department of Planning, Statistics & International
Cooperation (DPSIC) would provide technical assistance (short and long term),
staff training (local and overseas), vehicles, equipment and operating budgets
needed to build the capacity of the planning and statistics offices of DPSIC to
strengthen the Ministry's capacity to carry out project and program level publik
investment planning and to better meet the country's needs for basic agricultural
statistics. Total costs are estimated at $2.9 million.
Project Management Unit
2.14   To assist in implementation of the project and training of local staff a Project
Management Unit (PMU) would be established within MAFF, reporting to the Secretary of State
for Agriculture, who would chair a Project Steering Committee (PSC). The PMU would be
headed by a senior official, of the level of Under Secretary of State, and be staffed by a full-time
Deputy Chief and other staff, supported by long and short term technical assistance, including a
Project Management Advisor, who would be the chief technical advisor for the Project; a
Procurement Specialist; a Finance & Administration Specialist; and short term consultants for
establishment of monitoring and evaluation systems and supervision of buildings and civil
works. The PMU would coordinate the budgets and implementation plans of all the components
of the project, and ensure their appropriate auditing, monitoring, evaluation and progress
reporting. The estimated cost of the PMU, including costs for a staff retraining program, is $3.0
million over five years, or about 9% of the base cost estimate. It was agreed that both PSC and
PMU would have been established, according to terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, and their
key personnel appointed, as conditions of effectiveness.
D. EXPECTED OUTPUTS
2.15  The project would enable activities to be undertaken as part of coherent work programs in
five key sub-sectors 5 to produce outputs needed to achieve the project's medium term capacity-
building objective. Directly productive outputs in terms of increased agricultural production and
rural income would also be achieved during the Project.
2.16 Human Resources. By project completion, a key output in all sub-sectors would be
developed human resources. In MAFF, about 1,000 trained personnel at central and provincial
levels would have achieved pre-determined levels of technical and managerial competency.
Kompong Thom, Kompong Cham, Kratie, Prey Veng and Svay Rieng provinces; see map IBRD 27954.
4   including crop production estimates at district, provincial and national level, and monitoring and analysis of
producer price developments
5   Agronomy, livestock, fisheries, agricultural hydraulics, and smallholder rubber.
6   (of a total MAFF workforce of about 12,500)



- 12 -
Many more would have acquired better communication and analytical skills and gained on-the-
job experience of successful workplan implementation and inter-departmental collaboration.
Training courses would have been conducted for staff of the agronomy, livestock and hydrology
departments in gender awareness. In four selected provinces about 800 village vets would be
trained and licensed; and about 20,000 farmers trained / exposed to new technology: 16,000 rice
farmers would have been trained in IPM; a minimum of 500 farmers trained in seed production,
and about 2,000 farmers would have participated in supervised on-farm field trials (200 trials per
year for 4 years in Soil Fertility Management and Farming Systems/Crop Diversification).
2.17 Physical Outputs. Expected physical outputs contributing to the institutional capacity
objective include newly constructed or rehabilitated and equipped departmental and provincial
offices, laboratories, research station and seed processing buildings; it is expected that these
would be functioning efficiently.
2.18   The Seeds Multiplication Program would start to produce physical outputs within the
investment period of the project, including 700 tons/year of improved rice foundation seed
produced for multiplication and 15,000 tons/year of rice extension seed processed, labelled and
marketed. Other directly productive outputs are 2 million/year doses of cattle vaccine, 2
million/year fish fry/fingerlings, and about 136 small-scale water retention/drainage structures. In
all components, physical targets have been set that take account of MAFF's weak initial
implementation and absorptive capacity, and the over-riding objective to build up that capacity
through various means.
2.19  Information for Future Development of the Sector. By project completion the project
would have begun to generate important information outputs. These include information systems
which would produce valuable data on Cambodian farming and inland fishing systems, a
national agricultural statistics system (DPSIC), an agronomic technology testing and
demonstration system (DOA), a hydrology information system (GDIMH), a crop pest database
(DOA), a sectoral public investment program database (DPSIC), and a personnel and job
description database (HRD). Some information outputs would be the result of one-off studies and
surveys such as smallholder rubber research results, evaluations of small-scale agricultural
hydraulics schemes, the vaccine production privatisation study, training needs assessments,
statistical surveys, farming systems studies and field trial results, a feasibility study of a medium-
scale agricultural hydraulics scheme7, and component monitoring and evaluation reports. These
outputs, together with the technical and analytical skills acquired by MAFF personnel, would
contribute to improved prioritisation and decision-making capacity within MAFF and an
improved allocation of resources in the agricultural sector. In some cases, information outputs
would feed into other project outputs such as field-tested technical recommendations. A critical
systems output is expected to be an established information flow involving two-way
communications among the different stakeholders in the agricultural sector that will ensure that
MAFF promotes technology that responds effectively to real needs.
The scheme proposed is the Prek Tatam canal rehabilitation, in Prey Veng province, one of the priority
schemes identified in the 1994 UNDP Irrigation Study.



- 13 -
2.20 Policy Development. In three components of the project, policy outputs would be
produced: (i) a National Seeds Strategy would be prepared to guide implementation of the seed
production, multiplication and distribution subcomponent and establish appropriate policies for
future management of the function, including cost recovery and financial mechanisms necessary
to permit the development of a commercial seed multiplication industry; (ii) a National Strategy
for Animal Health and Production, that would clearly define the respective roles of the public
and private sectors in the light of experience gained under the Project and elsewhere, and provide
recommendations on the future of the Vaccine Production Laboratory (VPL), presently operated
by the DAHP. The regulation of basic animal health provision would have been formalised
through the registration and licensing of village vets; and (iii) in conjunction with expected
assistance to Government by the UNDP (DDSMS) and ADB, a National Water Resource
Strategy would be prepared that would clarify present institutional responsibilities for water,
including the present separation of functions for rural water supply and irrigation planning, and
make recommendations for participation and cost recovery policies likely to promote sustainable
development of water resources for agricultural purposes. It is expected that this work would also
result in a preliminary version of a revised legal framework to address irrigation water usage/
water rights issues. It was agreed that each of the above three national strategies would be
prepared by the Government and sent to IDA for comments by December 31, 1998.



- 14 -
3. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. PROJECT COSTS
3.1    Project cost estimates are based on June 1996 prices. Investment costs have been assigned
to the following expenditure categories: civil works, vehicles, equipment, materials (for
laboratory experimentation, field trials and demonstrations), international specialist services
(technical assistance), studies, overseas and domestic training. Recurrent costs are assigned to the
categories: staff training and field allowances, and incremental operating expenses (including
operation and maintenance). Physical contingencies of 10% have been added for civil works,
materials, field trials and incremental operating expenses. Price contingencies, local and foreign,
have been included as follows: 5% per annum for local costs and 2.3% per annum for foreign
costs. Physical contingencies add US$ 0.9 million (3%) and price contingencies US$ 1.9 million
(6%) to the aggregate base cost estimates.
3.2    Cost summaries by component and by expenditure account are given in Tables 3.1-2. The
total base cost8 is US$ 32.2 million equivalent and the total project cost including contingencies
is US$ 35.1 million, of which 72% is foreign exchange. Excluding estimated taxes and duties of
US$ 0.5 million, the estimated project cost is US$34.6 million. Investment costs of US$ 24.9
million are 77% of base costs, the largest category being international specialist services (22%).
Incremental operating costs of US$ 7.3 million including staff training and field allowances and
other incremental operating expenses are 23%. Detailed cost tables by project component are
given in Annex 2.
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The investment cost estimates exclude taxes and duties; it was confirmed at negotiations that all goods required
for the project would be imported free of duty and tax. Operating costs include a tax/duty component.



- 15 -
Agriculture Productivity Improvement Project
Table 3.1 Summary of Project Costs by Component
%     % Total
(US S '000)        Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign   Total   xchang   Costs
A. Agronomy, Seeds and Plant Protection
1. Department of Agronomy Capacity Building                   339    1,123    1,462       77         5
2. Soil Fertility Management                                  227      734      961       76         3
3. Farming Systems / Crop Diversification                     239      645      884       73         3
4. Seed Multiplication Program                                778    2,686    3,463       78        11
5. Plant Protection Service Establishment                     215      911     1,126      81         3
6. Integrated Pest Management (IPM)                           906      551    1,456       38         5
Subtotal Agronomy, Seeds and Plant Protection                 2,703    6,650    9,353       71        29
B. Animal Health & Production
1. Disease Control & Management                               570    1,908    2,478       77        8
2. Basic Animal Health                                        862    1,347    2,209       61         7
3. Animal Production Promotion                                101       97      199       49         1
Subtotal Animal Health & Production                           1,534    3,352    4,886       69        15
C. Agricultural Hydraulics
1. Department of Hydraulics Capacity Building                  81      631      713       89        2
2. Management Information System                              289      760    1,049       72         3
3. Small Scale Agricultural Hydraulics                        812    1,875    2,688       70         8
4. Medium Scale Agricultural Hydraulics                       232      618      850       73         3
Subtotal Agricultural Hydraulics                              1,414    3,884    5,299       73        16
D. Fisheries
1. Fisheries Conservation & Management                       353    1,122    1,476        76        5
2. Freshwater Fisheries Research                              264      687      951       72         3
3. Department of Fisheries Capacity Building                  126      411      537       77         2
Subtotal Fisheries                                              743    2,221    2,964       75         9
E. Smallholder Rubber Research                                  480    1,231     1,711      72         5
F. Planning & Statistics
1. Agricultural Statistics System Establishment              757    1,184    1,941        61        6
2. Agricultural Policy & Planning Capacity Building           141      781      922       85         3
Subtotal Planning & Statistics                                  898    1,965    2,863       69         9
G. MAFF
1. Human Resource Development & Management                   476    1,271      1,747      73        5
2. Support to Provincial Agriculture Services                 113      268      381       70         1
3. Project Management Unit                                    263    2,748    3,011       91         9
Subtotal MAFF                                                   852    4,287    5,139       83        16
Total BASELINE COSTS                                           8,624   23,591    32,215      73      100
Physical Contingencies                                        230      720      949       76         3
Price Contingencies                                           973      968    1,941       50        6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                            9,827   25,278   35,106       72      109



- 16 -
Agriculture Productivity Improvement Project
Table 3.2 Summary of Project Costs by Expenditure Category
*/%      % Total
(US S '000)             Foreign     Base
Local     Foreign     Total    Exchange    Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works /a                         1,059      3,178       4,237         75         13
B. Vehicles /b                             442       2,507       2,949         85          9
C. Equipment /c                            939       3,755       4,694         80         15
D. Materials /d                            298       1,192       1,490         80          5
E. Intemational Specialist Services           -      7,028       7,028        100         22
F. Studies                                    -      1,325       1,325        100          4
G. Overseas Training                          -        851        851         100          3
H. Domestic Training                      1,395        930      2,324         40           7
Total Investment Costs                     4,133      20,765     24,898         83          77
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Training and Field Allowances          3,549          -       3,549          -         11
B. Incremental Operating Expenses          942       2,826       3,768         75         12
Total Recurrent Costs                      4,491       2,826      7,317         39          23
Total BASELINE COSTS                        8,624     23,591      32,215         73        100
Physical Contingencies                     230         720        949          76          3
Price Contingencies                        973         968       1,941        50           6
Total PROJECT COSTS                         9,827     25,278      35,106         72        109
a ind. construction & rehabilitation
\b including boats
\c incl. office, communication, audio-visual, laboratory, agricultural & processing equipt.
\d for laboratory experimentation, field trials and demonstrations



- 17-
B. PROJECT FINANCING
3.3   The project financing plan is shown by project component in Table 3.3. The financing
plan broken down by expenditure category is included in Annex 2.
3.4   The estimated project cost of US$35.1 million equivalent would be financed by:
(a)   a local contribution of $3.35 million equivalent from the Government of
Cambodia, financing about 10% of total project cost (or about 8%, excluding
estimated taxes and duties);
(b)  the proposed Credit of SDR 18.8 million (US$27.0 million equivalent), financing
about 77% of total project cost; and
(c)   an IFAD Loan of SDR 3.3 million (US$ 4.75 million equivalent), financing the
animal health and production component of the project and covering about 14% of
total project cost.
The proposed IDA Credit would be funded under the Interim Trust Fund (ITF) administered by
IDA and subject to its special eligibility provisions regarding procurement. These provisions
would not affect the IFAD Loan, which is intended entirely for the parallel financing of the
livestock component of the Project. It was agreed that the cross-effectiveness date of the IDA
(ITF) Credit and the IFAD Loan would be March 31, 1997, or such later date as might be agreed.



Agriculture Productivity Improvement Project
Table 3.3 Financing Plan by Project Component
(US $ '000)
Local
Government       IDA (ITF)          IFAD             Total             For.   (Excl.  Duties &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %                Exch.  Taxes)  Taxes
A. Agronomy, Seeds and Plant Protection
1. Department of Agronomy Capacity Building                 186    11.7    1,403    88.3        -            1,590     4.5    1,206     373       11
2. Soil Fertility Management                                117    11.1      936    88.9        -       -    1,053     3.0      794     250        9
3. Farming Systems / Crop Diversification                   177    17.9      812    82.1        -       -     989      2.8      714    261        14
4. Seed Production Program                                  327     8.8    3,374    91.2        -       -    3,701    10.5    2,837     837       27
5. Plant Protection Service Establishment                    94     7.8    1,109    92.2        -       -    1,203     3.4     961      224       18
6. Integrated Pest Management                               106     6.4    1,543    93.6       -        -    1,649     4.7     601   1,013        34
Subtotal Agronomy, Seeds and Plant Protection               1,007     9.9    9,178    90.1       -        -   10,184    29.0    7,113   2,958      113
B. Animal Health & Production
1. Disease Control & Management                            261      9.7        -       -   2,423    90.3    2,684      7.6    2,036     594       54
2. Basic Animal Health                                      347    14.0                -   2,131    86.0    2,478      7.1    1,486     945       47
3. Animal Production Promotion                               35    15.4        -       -    193    84.6       228      0.7      112     112        5
Subtotal Animal Health & Production                           643    11.9        -       -   4,747    88.1    5,390    15.4    3,634   1,651       105
C. Agricultural Hydraulics                                                                                                                                  co
1. Department of Hydraulics Capacity Building                 2     0.2      746    99.8       -       -      748      2.1     655      92         1
2. Hydrology Information System                              75     6.6    1,057    93.4       -        -    1,132     3.2     804      315       12
3. Small Scale Irrigation                                   382    12.8    2,610    87.2       -       -    2,992      8.5    2,052     859      81
4. Medium Scale Irrigation                                  167    17.1      810    82.9       -       -      978      2.8     703    271          3
Subtotal Agricultural Hydraulics                              626    10.7    5,223    89.3       -       -    5,849    16.7   4,215   1,537         97
D. Fisheries
1. Fisheries Conservation & Management                      143     9.3    1,397    90.7       -       -    1,540      4.4    1,160    341       40
2. Freshwater Fisheries Research                            147    14.1      891    85.9       -             1,037     3.0     742     289         6
3. Department of Fisheries Capacity Building                 43     7.4      532    92.6       -       -      575      1.6     433      137        5
Subtotal Fisheries                                            332    10.5    2,820    89.5       -             3,152     9.0    2,334    766        51
E. Smaliholder Rubber Research                                352    18.3    1,574    81.7       -             1,925     5.5    1,369    507       49
F. Planning & Statistics
1. Agricultural Statistics System Establishment              72     3.4    2,043    96.6       -             2,114     6.0    1,252    846        17
2. Agricultural Policy & Planning Capacity Building          72     7.3      921    92.7       -       -      993      2.8     833      148       12
Subtotal Planning & Statistics                                144     4.6    2,964    95.4       -       -    3,108      8.9    2,085    994       29
G. MAFF
1. Human Resource Development & Management                   90     4.8    1,792    95.2       -       -    1,882      5.4    1,344    526       12
2. Support to Provincial Agriculture Services               121    27.4      321    72.6       -       -      442      1.3     307      99       35
3. Project Management Unit                                   42     1.3   3,131    98.7        -       -    3,173      9.0    2,876    280       17
Subtotal MAFF                                                 253     4.6    5,244    95.4       -       -    5,497    15.7    4,527     906       64
Total Disbursement                                           3,356     9.6   27,002    76.9   4,747    13.5   35,106   100.0   25,278   9,318      509



- 19 -
C. DISBURSEMENT
3.5   The proposed IDA (ITF) Credit of US$27.0 million equivalent and IFAD Loan of
US$4.75 million equivalent would be disbursed over a period of five and a half years with
disbursements completed by the closing date of June 30, 2002. The disbursement schedule is
considered feasible, because of the proposed input of technical assistance for project
implementation and the range of activities included, which reduces the risk that a delay in one
particular activity would hold up the entire project. A timely start to project implementation and
disbursement following effectiveness is expected, with mobilization of international TA and first
deliveries of equipment planned for September 1997.
3.6   The expected IFAD Loan of US$4.75 million equivalent would provide parallel financing
for a distinct component of the Project. It would be administered by IDA and disbursed erntirely
against expenditures under the component for Animal Health and Production. There is no joint
financing with the IDA (ITF) Credit. However, IFAD Loan disbursement categories and
percentages were coordinated with those of IDA (ITF) during negotiations to simplify
disbursement and accounting.
3.7  IDA (ITF) disbursements would be made against: (a) 80% of total expenditures for civil
works; (b) 90% of total expenditures for goods and equipment (excluding vehicles); (c) 100% of
total expenditures for vehicles, which would be imported free of duty; (d) 70% of expenditures
for agricultural and laboratory materials; (e) 100% of expenditures for consultant services and
studies; (f) 100% of expenditures for overseas training; (g) 100% of domestic training
expenditures, including local training allowances; and (h) a declining percentage of project
operating costs (100% for expenditures incurred during 1997-98, 80% for expenditures incurred
during 1999, 50% for expenditures incurred in 2000, and 40% for expenditures incurred in 2001
or later).
3.8   Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure (SOE) for: civil works
contracts less than $150,000; goods contracts less than $150,000; consulting contracts less than
$100,000 (firms) and $50,000 (individuals); overseas and domestic training costs; and
incremental operating expenditures. All documents supporting SOEs would be retained by the
PMU and made available for random sample review by IDA supervision missions and
independent auditors. For all contracts above these limits, full documentation would be required.
3.9   Special Accounts (one for IDA, one for IFAD eligible expenditures) with an aggregate
authorized allocation of US$2.0 million equivalent, based on four months' average expected
expenditures, would be established in a bank acceptable to IDA. The PMU at MAFF would
control and operate the Account, subject to procedures established by the Ministry of Finance
and to be agreed at negotiations. All documentation for operation of the Accounts would be
retained at the PMU. Applications for replenishment of the S/A supported by appropriate
documentation would be submitted regularly -- preferably monthly but not less than quarterly --
or when the amounts withdrawn equal 20 percent of the initial deposit.
3.10 MAFF's internal planning and budgeting system is weak and its procedures unclear,
particularly with respect to reporting and flow of funds arrangements between MAFF



- 20 -
headquarters and its provincial offices. It needs to be strengthened to avoid internal budget
management problems affecting implementation of the Project. Some aspects are already being
addressed under the Ministry's ongoing reorganization, while other measures are being taken by
the MEF to strengthen financial procedures across all ministries (para 1.16). To help ensure that
the financial planning and budget systems established for the purpose of the Project are adequate
and consistent with the systems being put in place more generally, a study would be carried out
during the first year of the Project, once the PMU is in place. During negotiations it was agreed
that by September 30. 1997, Government would conduct and send to the Association for
comments the conclusions and recommendations of a suitable study prepared on the basis of
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. and would implement the study's recommendations
during the Project taking account of the Association's comments.



-21 -
D. PROCUREMENT
3.11   The agreed procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in Table 3.4.
Table 3.4 Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ '000)
International National
Competitive  Competitive
Bidding      Bidding      Other      NBF    Total
Buildings & Civil         700        1,367      2,260     511    4,838
Works                    (560)     (1,093)   (1,808)       (0)  (3,461)
Vehicles                 2,761                            257    3,018
(2,761)                            (0)  (2,761)
Equipment                2,305       1,200       950      397    4,852
(2,075)     (1,080)     (855)      (0)  (4,010)
Agricultural & Lab.                             1,065     684    1,749
Materials                                      (746)       (0)    (746)
Consulting Services &                           7,656    1,034    8,690
Studies                                       (7,656)      (0)  (7,656)
Overseas Training                                764      135       899
(764)      (0)    (764)
Local Training                                  5,334    1,279    6,613
(5,334)     (0)  (5,334)
Project Operating                               3,352    1,095    4,447
Expenses                                      (2,269)      (0)  (2,269)
TOTAL                    5,766       2,567    21,381    5,392   35,106
IDA (ITF) financing:   (5,396)     (2,173)  (19,432)       (0) (27,001)
Totals may not add exactly due to rounding.
"Other" includes international and national shopping, simplified procurement for small works,
force account, consulting services and training.
"NBF" not Bank financed.
Figures in parentheses show IDA (ITF) financing.



- 22 -
3.12  Procurement for works, goods and services to be financed by the IDA (ITF) Credit and
IFAD Loan would be carried out in conformity with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement
Under JBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995 and revised in January and August
1996, subject to special eligibility provisions under the ITF financing (para. 3.4). Since the
procurement capability of the implementing agency is limited, technical assistance for
procurement activities and supervision of building works would be provided through the PMU
(para. 4.3). Procurement details would be as follows:
(a)   Civil Works. A contract for the construction of a new office/lab building for the
DOA estimated to cost US$0.7 million would be let through ICB using the Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of Works, January 1995. The
capacity of private domestic contractors to handle works of this size and type is
increasing. A preference margin of 7.5% would be given to domestic contractors
bidding under ICB procedures. Most other building works carried out under the
project would be small and simple, generally consisting of repair or renovation of
existing MAFF office buildings and field stations, located at provincial/district
centers in rural areas. Owing to the dispersed nature and small size of these works
(less than US$150,000 per contract), National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedures, acceptable to the Bank, would be appropriate since international
contractors are not likely to be interested in bidding but they would attract capable
local bidders. The total estimated cost of these works, including contingencies, is
US$1.9 million. Where feasible, the PMU would group them in suitable packages
of $100,000 or more each so as to reduce the number of contracts with a view to
economy and efficiency. For this purpose, the PMU and the responsible
departments concerned would use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for
Procurement of Works (Smaller Contracts), January 1995. Works mainly for
building renovation, amounting to an estimated US$0.5 million and typically
costing less than $50,000 per contract, would not justify NCB procedures and
would be procured through simplified procurement procedures based on
evaluation and comparison of at least three quotations from local contractors. As
the scope of work cannot be defined in advance, sites are remote and there is a
need to minimize the disruption of ongoing activities, works for rehabilitation of
small-scale hydraulic structures in two pilot provinces, and for the construction of
permanent markers for fish sanctuaries, for an estimated cost of US$1.3 million
would, with IDA's prior agreement, be carried out under force account by the
MAFF departments concerned.
(b)   Goods (Equipment. Vehicles, Boats, Vaccines and Office and Laboratory
Supplies). Vehicles, patrol boats and equipment costing US$5.7 million would be
procured by ICB procedures (with a preference margin of 15% of the CIF price, or
the actual customs duty, whichever is lower, granted to domestic manufacturers);
and goods costing US$1.2 million, with an estimated cost of US$50,000 or less
per contract, would be procured by NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. This
would include items such as office equipment and furniture manufactured locally.
For the latter, PMU would prepare bidding documents based on the Bank's



- 23 -
Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of Goods, January 1995, to be
cleared by the Bank prior to use. To the extent practicable, contracts for goods
will be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more each. Imported cattle vaccines and agricultural and laboratory materials
costing US$1.4 million, with an estimated cost of US$50,000 or less per contract,
would be purchased by international shopping with at least 3 price quotations
from at least two countries, under paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Procurement
Guidelines.
(c)   Training. Contracts for domestic training (US$2.2 million) would be negotiated
with local training institutions.9 Overseas training agreements, for a total cost of
US$0.9 million, would be negotiated by PMU and the implementing department
concerned with the foreign providing institutions. Such agreements would be
negotiated on a case by case basis, with terms of reference for the proposed
training and selection criteria for providing institutions and participants to be
discussed and agreed with the Association.
(d)   Consulting Services. Contracts for consulting services and studies required under
the project are estimated to cost a total of US$ 8.7 million, mostly procured from
the international market. Since the quality of such services is crucial to the success
of the project, this factor would be given most weight in their selection. The
services required would be contracted in suitable packages from shortlists of
appropriately qualified international firms on the basis of technical proposals, in
accordance with the Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency and employing as far as practicable
the Bank's Standard Form of Contract for Consultants' Services, June 1995.
Letters of invitation, evaluation reports and proposed awards of contract would be
submitted to the Bank for prior review.
3.13  Procurement Review. Civil works contracts costing over $150,000, goods contracts
costing over $150,000, and consulting service contracts over $100,000 for firms and $50,000 for
individual consultants, would all be subject to prior review by the Bank. This would allow for
prior review of contracts covering approximately 80% each of the works, goods and services to
be procured under the project. However, all terms of reference and any single-source selections
of consulting firms/consultants, regardless of contract value, would be subject to prior review.
Contracts awarded below the agreed prior review thresholds, and all documentation supporting
claims for disbursement on the basis of SOEs, would be subject to ex-post review by IDA. Until
greater experience is gained by the Borrower, it is expected that at least 20 percent of such
contracts would be subjected to random ex-post review.
9  such as Prek Leap Agricultural College, the Institute of Technology of Cambodia, and Cambodia Development
Resource Institute, a non-profit training and research foundation.



-24 -
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. PROJECT ORGANIZATION
4.1   Project Organization. The project consists of a number of components focused on
different organizational units within MAFF. These units vary in status from substantial
institutions to relatively minor divisions. The components can be classified as follows:
(a)   Subsectoral Programs:
(i)   Agronomy, Seeds & Plant Protection (DOA)
(ii)   Agricultural Hydraulics (GDIHM)
(iii)  Animal Health & Production (DAHP)
(iv)   Fisheries (DOF)
(v)   Smallholder Rubber Research (DGPH)
(b)   Institutional Strengthening Components:
(i)   Planning & Statistics Strengthening
(ii)   Human Resource Development & Management
(iii)  Strengthening Provincial Agricultural Services
(c)   Project Management Unit
4.2   The current structure of MAFF is shown in Figure 1 and an institutional analysis is
presented in Annex 4. An internally-led process of reorganization is under way and further
changes are expected. Components have largely been designed as self-contained activities within
the responsible MAFF department and do not depend to any critical extent on other departments
for implementation. Thus the design is relatively robust with respect to further organizational
changes in MAFF.
B. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
4.3   Management of the project is at three levels -- ministry, department and provincial office
-- as described below:
(a)   Ministr level: MAFF will take overall responsibility for the execution of the
project, through a Project Steering Commitee (PSC) and a Project Management
Unit (PMU). It was agreed that the PSC and PMU shall be maintained throughout
the period of project implementation. The Secretary of State is expected to be the
chairman of the Project Steering Committee, the proposed membership of which
is shown in Annex 5, and will include the Undersecretary of State (Planning), the



- 25 -
Directors/DGs of the participating departments, the Director General of the
Ministry, and the PMU Project Management Advisor. The full-time project
coordinator (deputy chief of PMU) will be the secretary to the PSC. The PSC will
meet at least twice a year and have the following responsibilities:
(i)    To approve the annual work plans and budgets for the project;
(ii)   To receive reports on progress of all components, and report to the
Minister;
(iii)  To advise the Secretary of State on the resolution of problems;
(iv)   To ensure that APIP is coordinated with other projects and programs in the
agricultural sector.
Coordinating day-to-day execution of the project will be the responsibility of the
Project Management Unit (PMU). The PMU will include representatives of the
departments concerned. The Under-Secretary of State (Planning) will be Chief of
PMU, supported by a deputy chief who will be full-time project coordinator. The
responsibilities of the PMU will be as follows:
(i)   Secretariat to the PSC;
(ii)   Coordination and compilation of the annual work plans and budgets for
the project;
(iii)  Liaison with Ministry of Finance on budget allocation and release, and
disbursement from the IFAD and IDA Special Accounts;
(iv)   National and international procurement including buildings/civil works;
(v)   Project accounting (monthly and annual);
(vi)   Coordination of HRD programme and general training courses such as
management, language and computer training;
(vii)  Disbursement of funds to participating departments;
(viii)  Management of project-wide monitoring and evaluation;
(ix)   Preparation of semi-annual progress reports to IDA on project
implementation.
The PMU would employ ten professional level staff and five clerical/secretarial
staff. Three technical assistance personnel and one short term specialist would be
attached to the PMU, as follows:
(i)   Senior project management and policy advisor;
(ii)   Procurement specialist;
(iii)  Finance and administration advisor;
(iv)   Monitoring and evaluation specialist (short term); and



- 26 -
(v)   the PMU will be responsible for the appointment of (short term)
consultants to supervise buildings and civil works.
Responsibility for executing the subsector components will rest with the Director
or DG of the MAFF technical department concerned. The Director General of
MAFF would have responsibility for the Provincial Agricultural Services
Strengthening component.
(b)   Departmental level:
(i)   Subsector programs will be the direct responsibility of the Directors
General/Directors of the department concerned who report to the Secretary
of State and are members of the Project Steering Committee. They will be
supported by a departmental coordinating committee and by
management/administration    staff   within   their   departments.
Responsibilities include:
a.    Preparation of the annual work plan and budget;
b.    Preparing procurement specifications of equipment/civil works for
submission to the PMU;
c.    Design and tendering of minor civil works (less than $50,000);
d.    Local purchasing;
e.    Staffing of component-designated posts;
f.    Supervision of work plan;
g.    Administration of staff training and travel allowances;
h.    Component monitoring;
i.    Component accounting and quarterly progress reporting to the
PMU; and
j.    Project related technical training, workshops, study tours.
(ii)   The organization to undertake these tasks within each department is
described within the respective component annexes. Each department will
be assisted in component management by a senior technical advisor.
(c)   Provincial level:
(i)   Four components (agronomy, livestock, irrigation and strengthening of
provincial agricultural services) have activities executed through the
provincial directors of agriculture (PDA). The first three will be executed
under the responsibility of the respective line department directors, the
third under the responsibility of the Director General of MAFF.



- 27 -
(ii)   The Governors and PDAs would be fully informed and the provincial
offices concerned would be required to present annual work plans to the
Provincial Rural Development Committees (PRDC) for coordination
purposes. The PRDC would not have direct responsibility for approval,
this being firstly the responsibility of the department and then of the
PMU/PSC.
(iii)   Responsibilities of the provincial offices will be:
a.    Preparation of annual work plans/budgets and submission to
department in Phnom Penh subsequent to presentation to the
PRDC;
b.    Execution of work plan;
c.    Routine accounting and reporting to the department;
d.    Coordination with the PDA and the Governor's office;
e.    Provincial staff training.
f.    For the livestock and small-scale irrigation subsector programs, the
provincial chief (OAHP or POH) will have responsibility for the
work and the PAS component will be the responsibility of the
PDAs. Technical assistance personnel will be based at provincial
level for both the irrigation and livestock components and will
assist the provincial staff in their management responsibilities.
C. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
4.4   Performance Indicators have been set for the project as a whole and also by component so
as to measure progress during implementation (achievement of outputs and results) and progress
towards objectives (achievement of effects and impact). They would also serve as milestones,
which will confirm that components are proceeding according to plan, or signal that there are
actual or potential problems requiring remedial action. PIs have been chosen for their value in
measuring the extent to which the project is likely to achieve its long-term development
objective.10
4.5   The main impact indicator for the project as a whole is a measurable increase in capacity
within MAFF to fulfill its role and responsibilities. The following progress indicators would
permit both qualitative and quantitative assessment:
(a)   an HRDM system established and operating effectively within MAFF;
1  In setting Pls for the proposed project, recent Bank guidelines on Performance Indicators for Technical
Assistance Operations (document WB/OPRDR 23.1996) have been followed.



- 28 -
(b)   sufficient competent senior staff assigned as full-time counterparts in the PMU
and in each of the project components, with staff trained by the project in
positions which use their acquired skills and experience;
(c)   measurable increases in language, analytical, technical and management skills of
MAFF staff;
(d)   progress reports from PMU and senior TA assigned in each technical department
on quality and performance of counterpart staff in project work-planning,
budgeting, implementation, reporting and trouble-shooting;
(e)   progress reports from PMU and departmental heads indicating quality and
performance of TA;
(f)   clearly prioritised development plans/ programs for the different sub-sectors that
respond to farmers needs and reflect real constraints and potentials;
(g)   MAFF actively seeking resources/budget for program implementation from both
government and donors.
4.6   Specific impact and progress indicators for each project component and subcomponent
are given in Annex 2. Table 4.1 below shows the selected development impact indicators
discussed and agreed during negotiations.



- 29 -
Table 4.1 Development Impact Indicators
Objective        Indicator                      Unit    Base   Mid-   ICR       Ful I
tern            Impact
Recommended      Quantity  of  foundation  seed    tons      0    400      700      700
seed availability   produced
Quantity  of  extension  seed    tons      0   7500   15000    15000
multiplied
IPM              Trained farmers                    no.      0   8000   16000    30000
IPM adoption rates                 %              80      80        80
Animal health    mortality rates                     %
- adult buffalo                          0.1            0.07     0.05
- adult cattle                          0.08            0.06     0.04
- adult pigs                             0.3             0.2      0.1
- breeding poultry                       0.3             0.2       0.1
- chickens                               0.6             0.4      0.2
Irrigation strategy  Small-scale scheme completion  No.      0     25       50       75
Adequacy of O&M                    %
Freshwater  fish  Production of fry               000s   2000             5000    10000
"seed"           Production of fingerlings        000s    850             2000     3000
availability    I                                      I.I_I_I
D. MONITORING, SUPERVISION, EVALUATION AND REPORTING
4.7    Monitoring. Monitoring of project activities will be done at two levels. The PMU will be
responsible for establishing the framework for project wide monitoring. It would cover three
groups of performance indicators:
(a)    Physical monitoring of project progress such as procurement, construction of
buildings, expenditure, holding of PSC and other committee meetings, routine
reporting etc.
(b)   Monitoring of human resource development including implementation of training
needs analyses, completion of personnel registration, execution of training
programs; and follow-up studies to determine the impact of HRD programs on
MAFF staff.
(c)    Monitoring of project impact on intended beneficiaries. This applies mainly to the
irrigation, livestock and PAS components and will require conducting baseline
studies and comparison of farmers within project schemes and outside them.



- 30 -
4.8   This overall framework would be set up with the help of a specialist consultant assigned
to the PMU, initially for a six month period and then for short follow up visits to supervise
execution.
4.9   Each executing department will be responsible for its internal monitoring. Staff from the
department planning section will be given initial training in monitoring techniques and will then
be assigned to monitor specific indicators within the overall framework and to prepare routine
reports. The senior technical advisor for the component will be responsible for ensuring that a
proper program is set up and followed.
4.10 Supervision. Because of the rapidly changing environment in Cambodia, at least semi-
annual supervision missions will need to be fielded, with the authority to approve or recommend
adjustment of the project if the need arises. These missions will be coordinated and carried out
by the Bank but IFAD inputs will be included as and when issues on the livestock component
arise and by mutual agreement between IFAD and the Bank.
4.11 Mid-Term Review, Evaluation. During the third year of the project it is agreed to carry
out a -joint mid-term review to assess progzress achieved in implemnenting the pro-ject. and the
Govenment would thereafter take any necessary measures for its future implementation such as
to achieve the agreed objectives. On completion of the project, a full evaluation of performance
will be undertaken for the ICR.
4.12 Reporting. Monthly reports and accounts will be produced at provincial, department and
PMU level. Semi-annual progress reports will be prepared for submission to the Bank and IFAD
by June 30 and December 31 each year until the Project is completed.
E. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITING
4.13  The project account would be maintained by the PMU in MAFF, and separate sub-
accounts for project components/subcomponents would be maintained by each project
implementing department, in accordance with sound accounting practices. The project accounts
would reflect all financial transactions during the project implementation period both for the IDA
and IFAD Credits and for the government counterpart funding, in two books: one by project
component, and one by standard expenditure categories. The project accounts would be
maintained separately from any routine budget account or other externally-funded project
account. Assurances to the above effect were agreed at negotiations .
4.14  Project accounts would be audited in accordance with Guidelinesfor Financial Reporting
and Auditing of projects Financed by the World Bank (World Bank, March 1982). Assurances
were obtained that audits of project-related records and accounts. including the Special Accounts.
would be undertaken in accordance with accounting principles consistently applied. by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that audited accounts and financial statements, in a
format agreed with IDA. and including separate audits of Statements of Expenditures. would be
furnished to IDA for approval within six months of the end of each Government financial year.
until completion of the project.



- 31 -
5. PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. PROJECT BENEFITS
5.1   The project would build capacity within MAFF and the main development impact would
thus be institutional. MAFF staff would benefit from intensive training, and experience of the
implementation of well-resourced, well-designed work-programs which contribute to a coherent
integrated sectoral program. The ultimate beneficiaries are rural communities who depend on
agriculture and fishing for their livelihoods, for assisting whom MAFF is responsible.
5.2   Rural communities in Cambodia would benefit economically and financially in the
medium to long term through the adoption of appropriate, sustainable and financially profitable
agronomic technology and low cost measures for protecting animal health. Additional benefits
would be obtained from improved surface water storage and drainage for increased production of
rice and other crops, and from higher and sustained levels of production from freshwater fish
capture and aquaculture, and ultimately from profitable investment in smallholder rubber
plantations.
5.3   The project would also contribute positive nutritional and human health benefits. Greater
food security, particularly in respect of the main wet season rice crop as a result of improved
seed availability and water for supplementary irrigation, the increased availability of fish and
animal protein from the fisheries and livestock components, and crop diversification as a result
of the farming systems component, would all result in greater adequacy and variety of diet in
rural areas. A healthier and better fed rural labor force would enjoy higher productivity and a
better quality of life.
5.4   Environmental benefits are expected to be achieved in the medium to long term through
the improved sustainability of rice based farming systems. These would ensue as farmers adopt
recommended practices with respect to soil fertility management, integrated pest management,
water management and conservation, and crop diversification. Strengthened fisheries
conservation, management and research would help ensure that important freshwater capture
fisheries are not over-exploited and that better knowledge is acquired in order to minimise
possible negative environmental impacts of future aquaculture development. Rubber research
would ensure that smalholder rubber plantations are established only in suitable areas.
5.5   The RGC would benefit fiscally as cost recovery mechanisms would be introduced under
the project for improved rice seeds, animal vaccines and irrigation water, and as appreciation is
developed of the areas which are/are not government's budgetary responsibility under a market
economy. In the long-term, sound and sustainable agricultural development would contribute to
Cambodia's foreign exchange earnings and provide a stronger and broader base for domestic
resource mobilization.



- 32 -
B. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.6   The economic analysis undertaken during appraisal involved a detailed evaluation of the
costs and benefits of each planned output, and of the risks and assumptions inherent in the
means-ends hierarchy. This iterative process which inter alia involved close examination of
alternative means of achieving objectives and outputs, aimed to produce project components
whose outputs would contribute most reliably and cost-effectively to sub-sectoral immediate
objectives and the project's development goal.
5.7   To achieve the objective of capacity building in MAFF, the project includes a heavy
investment in training (US$ 5.1 million) and a Human Resources Development and Management
(HRDM) component, to ensure that all training has an impact on job performance and effective
accomplishment of project workplans. Additionally, and more importantly for sustainable
development of the sector, it would establish and institutionalize the process of managing
training and human resources effectively within the Ministry. Recognising that an institution
building objective may conflict with the achievement of physical targets, the project has been
designed with deliberately limited and realistically achievable targets. However, cost
effectiveness analyses indicate that in some areas (HRDM in particular) the investment per
beneficiary is relatively high for benefits which are difficult to quantify; the high cost is largely
due to the substantial technical assistance requirement. The expected outputs from investment in
HRDM are nevertheless considered to be crucial for the success of the project and economically
justifiable given the project's capacity building core objective and the importance for the
country's long term development of creating technical, planning and management capacity in the
agriculture sector.
5.8   For project components expected to have a direct impact on production levels (livestock,
small-scale agricultural hydraulics, seed multiplication, and integrated pest management), an
indicative economic analysis was carried out on the stream of incremental costs and benefits
directly associated with the investment, projected over 15 years. Comparisons were made with
the results of ADOR I 11 for which detailed domestic resource cost (DRC) calculations were
made for the major agricultural commodities produced in Cambodia. For outputs and most
inputs, market prices were used as a proxy for economic prices, since minimal distortions to
market prices were identified. For unskilled rural labor a shadow wage rate of US$0.50 per day
was used, representing a conversion factor of approximately 0.50.
5.9   For the livestock component, the base case ERR over 15 years is estimated at 36%. The
analysis demonstrates the economic attractiveness of investment in animal health care and
sensitivity tests confirm it. Recurrent costs would be minimal as farmers themselves would pay
the full cost of maintaining privatized village veterinary services.
5.10  The small-scale agricultural hydraulics sub-component is designed to demonstrate the
viability of small-scale irrigation in two pilot provinces and therefore has deliberately limited
physical development targets. Costs per scheme include all sub-component management costs
FAO Investment Centre: Cambodia Agriculture Development Options Review (Phase 1), 3 vols, April 1994.



- 33 -
except technical assistance, plus unskilled rural labor for scheme construction and operation &
maintenance shadow-priced at $0.50/md, and all other operation and maintenance costs; and
benefits assume an incremental production of wet season rice and some high-value vegetables
and/or fresh fish. The potential ERR per scheme is 25%; when conservative assumptions are
made on both net incremental benefits and adoption rates, the indicative ERR decreases to only
11%. As is well appreciated, each potential site is unique and economic viability is a function of
many variables beyond the control of the project. The analysis nevertheless indicates that small-
scale irrigation rehabilitation should be economic provided that agreed site selection criteria are
followed and provides sufficient justification for proceeding with a well-targeted demonstration
phase. Project outputs in terms of experience and results will feed into policy decisions as to
whether and how RGC should invest further in the sub-sector.
5.11   An indicative cost benefit analysis of the seed multiplication program gives an ERR of
17%, if only first round benefits from using recommended seed are included, and 38% if second
round benefits are included. The analysis includes all subcomponent costs, assumes that
foundation seed would be sold from seed farms at a price reflecting its direct cost of production,
and demonstrates that recurrent costs would be more than covered by sales revenues as well as
the overall economic benefits to farmers of this program.
5.12  A base case ERR of 26% was calculated for the IPM  sub-component, with all sub-
component management costs included except TA. If the uncontrolled use of pesticides
continues unchecked , rice-fish farmers would expect substantially decreased catches. When
incremental fishing benefits (prevention of losses) are included in the analysis, the estimated
ERR rises to 42%.
5.13   The overall conclusion of economic analysis is confirmation that the project would
strengthen MAFF capacity in areas which require an initial public sector investment but only a
modest recurrent budget and which can generate valuable returns to the economy.
C. SUSTAINABILITY
5.14  Project preparation has been participatory and APIP's components focus firmly on
MAFF's priorities for the sector. The involvement and commitment of senior MAFF officials to
the project from the very beginning has given a strong sense of ownership and responsibility for
the successful implementation and sustainability of the project and its component activities.
5.15   Only through cost recovery can investments in support of development be made
sustainable. With government agreement, design of the project has foreseen direct cost recovery
mechanisms wherever possible. Thus, entities involved in seed multiplication would have to pay
for foundation seed and farmers would pay for extension seeds; the retail provision of basic
animal health services will be done through private, unsubsidized village vets; a site selection
requirement for small-scale irrigation development is an unskilled labor contribution to scheme
construction, operation and maintenance; fish producers must purchase fishery concessions,
licenses, hatchery-produced fish fry and fingerlings and pay substantial fines for illegal fishing.
In addition APIP would finance studies, training, strategy development, data collection, and
economic viability assessments that would establish the feasibility of future privatization of



- 34 -
services or cost recovery arrangements. These would include recommended practices for
smallholder rubber development, evaluation of results in small-scale irrigation development,
training in economics and data analysis for policy planners, and a privatization study for animal
vaccine production. Thus APIP would build MAFF's capacity as a facilitator, regulator and
demonstrator of new technology, not as provider of free goods and services. The expectation is
that farmers will pay for goods and services necessary to increase their production, once they are
convinced that it is profitable to use them and so long as the risks are not too great. Recurrent
costs of maintaining sub-sector programs after the end of the project are estimated at about
US$ 1.0 million per year or less.
5.16  The sustained execution of MAFF sub-programs will depend on whether capacity built
under the project will continue in post (staff) and in operation (plant and equipment, vehicles,
buildings, laboratories) to serve the needs of agricultural communities in the medium to long
term. This will in part depend on factors outside the management control of the project, such as
the expected reform (down-sizing) of the civil service and public sector pay scales, political
commitment and stability, and funding constraints on operational budgets. The sustainability and
development impact of agricultural development programs implemented through MAFF will
depend inter alia upon the extent to which these wider objectives are met.
D. RISK ASSESSMENT AND MANAGEMENT
5.17  Exogenous risks to the project referred to in the previous section include:
(a)   rural insecurity, which may continue to hamper field activities in some areas of
the country;
(b)   fragility of the political situation -- the planned elections in 1998 may distract
attention and divert budgetary resources from the project;
(c)   chronic funding constraints of the government and its possible inability to provide
budgetary resources on an ongoing basis to ensure the sustainability of the
programs started under the project;
(d)   difficulty  in coordinating  the work-programs of the different technical
departments of MAFF and between headquarters and the provincial/district
offices; and
(e)   an increasing turn-over of trained staff due to low  motivation and poor
remuneration in the public service.
The project has been designed in the full awareness of these risks and measures have been
taken to minimise their effects.
5.18  The risk of inadequate counterpart staff commitment and that trained staff will not be
continuously assigned in jobs which use their skills and experience is addressed directly in the
project. Sufficient resources would be provided to ensure adequate incentives (e.g. through staff
training and travel allowances) to staff to perform their duties under the project, and to establish
work programs that ensure individual job satisfaction and delivery of quality services in response



- 35 -
to client needs. This should encourage a much higher level of inter-departmental cooperation in
MAFF as well as individual job performance.
5.19  The shortage of well-qualified and experienced staff in the Ministry is both a reason for
the project and a risk to its successful implementation. Formal training amounts to 11% of
project base costs and HRDM is given particular importance. Long-term overseas training has
been kept to a minimum so as to ensure that able staff mostly remain in Cambodia, working as
counterparts alongside international specialists, and gain experience and intensive on-the-job
training through the project. Funds for language training have been included where required so as
to facilitate communication and understanding between local and international project staff. For
the same reason, all long term international project staff would be expected to become conversant
in the Khmer language within six months of arrival in post.
5.20  Implementation performance indicators would be monitored throughout the project.
Problems would be identified, their causes analysed and possible solutions fed back to PMU and
the relevant technical departments. This would ensure that workplans and targets get readjusted
in line with developing implementation capacities.
5.21  It will take time to build analytical, managerial, and technical skills in MAFF and the
project includes a large and necessary amount of technical assistance. There is a risk inherent in
the potential conflict between meeting implementation targets and building national capacities.
In some cases it may be necessary and desirable to trade-off short-term effects for long-term
sustainable impact. Project targets have been deliberately set so that the potential for conflict
between objectives is minimised. In evaluating bids for provision of TA, the MAFF needs to be
aware of this risk and give a high weighting to both technical/analytical and management/human
sets of skills.
5.22  The only risk that cannot be controlled through project design is that of continuing
insecurity in rural areas. Over the past year, there have been major political developments as a
result of which the zone of high insecurity has contracted, but some risks remain. Project design
has taken these into account by excluding or reducing project activities in provinces still
considered insecure. In addition, the pilot field components could be relocated to other provinces
if necessary.



- 36 -
6. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
A. AGREEMENTS REACHED
6.1.  The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
(a)   as conditions precedent to Credit effectiveness, the Government shall have
established both the PSC and PMU, according to terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association, and shall have appointed their key personnel (para 2.1 1);
(b)   a failure of the IFAD Credit Agreement to have become effective by March 31,
1997, or such later date as the Association may agree, shall be an event of default
(para 3.4);
(c)   the Government shall maintain the PSC and PMU throughout the period of
Project implementation (para 4.3);
(d)   the Government shall send to IDA semi-annual reports on Project implementation
progress, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, by June 30 and
December 31 each year until the Project is completed (para 4.12);
(e)   the Government shall maintain proper policies and procedures for monitoring and
evaluating Project implementation on a regular basis (para 4.7-9) and shall keep
adequate Project records and separate accounts, according to generally accepted
accounting principles (para 4.13);
(f)   audits of project-related records and accounts including the Special Accounts, will
be carried out by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and audited accounts
and financial statements, in a form acceptable to IDA, and including separate
audits of Statements of Expenditure, will be sent to IDA within six months of the
end of each Government financial year (para 4.14);
(g)   by September 30, 1997, the Government shall conduct and send to the
Association for comments a study of the MAFF's internal planning and budgeting
system and procedures, on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association and with particular focus on the reporting and flow of funds
arrangements between MAFF headquarters and its provincial departments of
agriculture (provincial agricultural services), and implement the recommendations
of the study during the project taking into consideration the Association's
comments (para 3.10);
(h)   by December 31, 1997, the Government will adopt a national plan for training,
registering and licensing of village vets satisfactory to the Association (para 2.7);



- 37 -
(i)   by December 31, 1998, the Government shall furnish to the Association for
comments (i) a national strategy for seeds improvement, (ii) a national strategy for
animal health and production and (iii) a national water resource strategy, each of
these strategies to propose specific measures for cost recovery from beneficiaries
and for operational maintenance of public investments (para 2.20);
Gj)   by June 30, 1999, the Government in consultation with the Association will carry
out a mid-term review, based on a report to be furnished by April 30, 1999, to
assess the progress achieved in implementing the Project and agree on any
adjustments needed to achieve its objectives (para 4.11); and
(k)   the Government shall send the Association by December 31 each year for its
comments the training programs to be carried out under the Project during the
following year (para 2.12).
B. RECOMMENDATION
6.23  Subject to the conditions set out in para 6.1 above, the proposed project would constitute
a suitable basis for an IDA (ITF) Credit of SDR 18.8 million (US$27.0 million equivalent) to the
Kingdom of Cambodia with 40 years' maturity and 10 years of grace.






Royal Govemment of Cambodia
Agrcultural Productivity Improvement Project
Table 1 Department of Agronomy Capacity Building
Detailed Costs
(US $)
Quantities                                                     Base Cost ('000)
Unit    1997        1998      1999     2000      2001      Total    Unit Cost   1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Construction Office & Lab Complex /a           m2                                                                                650        -       -        -       -    650
B. Vehicles
Double cabin pick-up                            unit           2               -             -        -          2    20,000       40        -       -        -       -      40
Motorcycle                                      unit          10                        -                       10      1,500      15        -       -        -       -      15
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                                                                    55                                        55
C. Equipment
Office Equipment /b                             unit                                                                              61        5        -        -       -      66
Communication Equipment /c                      unit                                                                                S        -       -        -       -       5
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                                   66       5        -        -       -      71
D. Training
Local Training                                  unit           -         3         3         3        3         12      2,500       -       8        a       8        8      30
National WID consultants /d                    month           1          1        1         1        1          5      1,000       1       1        1       1        1       5     1
Subtotal Training                                                                                                                     1       9        9       9        9      35    U
E. Technical Assistance
TechnicalAdvisor/e                             month           6         12        6         -         -        24     15,000      90     180       90        -       -     360
Financial & Administrative Specialist          month           6          -        -         -        -          6     15,000      90        -       -        -       -      go
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                                                       180     180       90        -       -    450
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                                952     194       99       9        9   1,261
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Training Allowances /f                          LS                                                                                23      23       23      23       23     115
B. Travel Allowances                              unit                                                                                5      10       10      10       10      45
C. Office Operabng Expenses                       unit                                                                                2       2        2       2        2      10
D. 0 & M Vehicles & Equipment                      LS                                                                                 4       7        7       7        7      32
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                  33      42       42      42       42     201
Total                                                                                                                                 985      235     140       50      50   1,462
\a DoA's central officesand laboratores for soils and plant analysis, plant protection and seed quality control.
\b includes 2 computers. 1 printer and 1 photocopier (cost revised 6/15)
\c includes fax, mobile telephone, etc
\d For gender sensitization training, training of trainers, and monitoring of women's participation / targetting
ve Overall coordination of APIP s sub-components in DoA
\f 4 counterparts ($2400/staff-yr) + 3 medium-level (US$1800/staff-yr) +3 junior staff ($1200/staff-yr) + 6 support staff (US$720/staff-yr)
(D (D
0
N')
XJ



Royal Govemment of Cambodia
Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Table 2. Soil Fertility Management
Detailed Costs
(US $)
Quantities                                                    Base Cost ('000)
Unit    1997     1998      1999     2000     2001      Total   Unit Cost  1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Rehabilitation of Buildings /a          m2                                                                            60        -       -        -       -      60
B. Vehicles
Double cabin pick-up                    unit         3         -        -        -         -         3    20,000      60        -       -        -       -      60
Motorcycles                             unit         6         -        -        -         -         6     1,500       9        -       -        -       -       9
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                                                       69        -       -        -              69
C. Equipment
Office Equipment /b                     unit                                                                          20        -       -        -       -      20
Agricultural Equipment /c               unit                                                                         100        -                              100
Laboratory Equipment /d                 unit                                                                            -     75        -       -        -      75
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                     120       75       -        -       -    195
D. Training
Overseas Technical Courses /e           unit         -         -        3        4        3         10     2,000        -       -       6       8       6       20      b
Local Training                          unit         -        3         3        3        3         12     2,500        -      8        8       8       8       30
Subtotal Training                                                                                                         -       8      14      16       14      50
E. Technical Assistance
Soil Fertility Specialist             month          -        6         6        6         -        18    15,000        -     90       90      90        -    270
F. Field Trials /                         LS                                                                              -     40       40      40      40      160
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                   249      213     144     146      54      804
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Training Allowances /g                 LS                                                                            20      20       20      20      20       98
B. Travel Allowances                      unit                                                                           1       3        3       3       3       13
C. Office Operating Expenses              unit                                                                           1        1       1       1       1       5
D. Laboratory Operating Expenses          unit                                                                           -        -       2       4       4      10
E. 0 & M Vehicles & Equipment             unit                                                                           4       7        7       7       7      32
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                     25      31       33      35      35      157
Total                                                                                                                     274     243     176      180      88     961
\a for two research stations
\b computer,printer, fax & communications equipment at each station ($10,000 X 2)
\c for two research stations
\d for the central Soils & Plant Analysis Laboratory                                                                                                                           3
\e three to six month courses overseas                                                                                                                                         3
U for two research stations                                                                                                                                                    X
\g 2 senior counterparts ($2400/staff-yr) + 5 medium-level/lab.staff ($1800/staff-yr) + 3 junior staff ($1200/staff-yr) + 3 support staff (US$720/staff-yr)                 K
th



Royal Govemment of Cambodia
Agricutural Productivity Improvement Project
Table 3. Farming Systems I Crop Diversification
Detailed Costs
(US S)
Quantities                                                     Base Cost ('000)
Unit    1997       1998      1999       2000     2001      Total   Unit Cost  1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Rehabilitation of Buildings /a            LS                                                                                 90       -        -       -       -      90
B. Vehicles
Double cabin pick-up                      und           3          -         -          -        -         3    20,000      60        -       -        -       -      60
Motorcycles                               unit         10          -         -          -        -        10      1,500      15       -        -       -       -      15
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                                                              75                                       75
C. Equipment
Office Equipment /b                       unit                                                                              20        -       -        -       -      20
Agricultural Equipment /c                 unit                                                                              160       -        -       -       -    160
Spare parts /d                            LS                                                                                 8        -       -       8        -      16
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                            188       -        -       8       -    196
D. TraIning
Overseas Technical Courses /e             unit           -         -         3         4        3         10      2,000       -       -       6       8        6      20
E. Technical Assistance
FarmingSystemsSpecialist/f               month           -        12        12        12         -        36                                  -        -       -       -
Vokinteer/LocaiConsuHants                 LS             -        12        12        12         -        36      1,000       -      12      12       12       -      36
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                                                   -      12      12       12       -      36
F. Farming Systems Field Trials /g          LS                                                                                  -      40      40      40       40     160
G. Otwer Fied Trials                                                                                                                                                                                  ,_
Fodder Crop Trials /h                     LS                                                                                  -       8       8       8        8      30
Water Management Trials ri                LS                                                                                         10      10       10      10      40
Crop DiversUifcation Trials fi            LS                                                                                  -       5       5       5        5      20
Subtotal Other Field Trials                                                                                                     -      23      23      23       23      90
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                         353       75      81      91       69     667
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Training Allowances /k                   LS                                                                                 16      16      16       16      16      82
B. Travel Alloiwances                       uni                                                                                 1       4       4       4        4      17
C. Accomodation                             und                                                                                 -      24      24      24        -      72
D. Ofice Operating Expenses                 unit                                                                               2        2       2       2        2      10
E. 0 & M Vehicles & Equipment               unit                                                                               4        8       8       8        8      36
Total Recurnent Costs                                                                                                           23       54      54      54       30     217
Total                                                                                                                           376     129      136     145      99     884
la for two research stations
\b computer,printer. fax & coffmunications equipment at each station ($10,000 X 2)
vc hckides 2 ators and rted equipment
vd for agriculural equipment
b three to six month courses overseas
W To be fianced by CIRAD
4g for two research stBaons and on-farm trials 
Vi in colaboration wfth Depltnwt of An"nal Health & Production                                                                                                                                        Q  >
V hI collaboralion with Department of Hydraulics                                                                                                                                                         
inhci. frultrees                                                                                                                                                                                      W
Vx 2 senior counterparts ($2400/ste-yr) + 3 medium-ievet staff (S1800/st4-yr) + 4 Junior staff (S1200 staff-yr) + 2 support sta ($720vstalf-yr)                                                           i
hi



Royal Govenment of Cambodia
Agricultural Producbvtty Improvement Project
Tabfe 4. Seed Producfion Program
Detailed Cost
(US S)
Quantites                                                          Base Cost ('00)
Unit      1997        1998      1999       2000       2001        Total    Unit Cost  1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   Total
1. Investment Costa
A. CMI Works
Seed Processing and Storage /a                  m2           1,000       496           -         -          -        1,496       200    200      99        -       -      -    299
Office rehabiliation /b                         m2               -       120           -         -          -          120       200       -     24            -           -     24
Rehabilitation of Inmgaton Systems /c           LS               -       240          -          -          -          240     1,000       -    240        -       -       -    240
Field levelling /d                              LS               -        30          -          -          -           30     1,000       -     30        -       -             30
Subtotal Chvi Works                                                                                                                        200    393                -      -    593
B. Vehicles
Double cabin pick-ups                           unit            4           -         -          -          -            4    20,000      80       -       -      -       -      80
LargenWU&                                      tui               -         4           -         -          -            4    40,000       -    160        -       -       -    160
Motorcydes                                      unit           10          9           -         -          -           19     1,500      15      14       -       -      -      29
Tractors with Equipment                         unit            6          7           -         -          -           13    60,000     360    420        -       -      -    780
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                                                                         455    594                            1,049
C. Equipment
Office Equipment                                unit                                                                                       -     30        -       -      -      30
AirDryer                                        unit           10           -          -         -          -           10     1,000      10       -       -       -      -      10
Imgaton equipment indcpumps                     unit                                                                                     50      20        -       -      -      70
Seed processing and drying /e                   unit                                                                                     50    850      152        -      -   1,052
Laboratory equipment                            unit                                                                                       -       -     42       -       -      42
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                                         110    900    194        -       -   1,204
D. TraIning
Certificate in Seed Technology, overseas        unit             -         1          1          2          -            4    10,000       -     10      10      20       -      40
Local Training                                  unit            6           -         -          -          7           13     2,000     12        -       -      -      14      26
Subtotal Training                                                                                                                           12     10      10      20      14      66
E. Technical Assistance
Seed Industry Specialist                        LS              1           -         -                     -            1    15,00O     15        -       -       -      -      15
Seed Production Technician                      LS             12                           -                           12    12,000    144        -       -      -       -    144
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                                                              159                                    159
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                                      936   1,897    204       20      14   3,071
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Training Allowances
Seniorcounterparts                             month           72         72         72         72         72         360       200      14      14      14      14      14      72
Seedlaboratorytechnicians                      month           24         24         24         24         24         120       125       3       3       3       3       3      15
Seed farm technicians                           LS             96         96         96         96         96         480        70       7       7       7       7       7      34
Seedfarmlabourers                             month           144        144        144        144        144         720        50       7       7       7       7       7      36
Subtotal Training Allowances                                                                                                               31      31      31      31      31    157
B. Iravel Alowances                               unit                                                                                      6       6       6       6       6      30
C. Office Operating Expenses
Central Office                                  unit                                                                                      2       2       2       2       2      10
Seed Laboratory                                 unit                                                                                      2       2       2       2       2      10
Seed Farms                                      LS                                                                                        2       5       5       5       5      20
Subtotal Offtce Operating Expenses                                                                                                          5       9       9       9       5      40
D. 0 & M Vehicles 6 Equipment
Central Office                                  LS                                                                                         -      2       2       2       2       6
Seed laboratory O&M                             LS                                                                                                0       0       0       0       1
Seed Farm O&M                                   LS                                                                                         -      7      14      14      14     49
Fuel for Seed Farms                             LS                                                                                         -      5               5       5     20
Subtotal 0 & M Vehicles & Equipment                                                                                                                14      21      21     21      76
E Other Seed Farm Operabng Expenses              unit                                                                                      45      45       -       -       -     90
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                        6s    105       67      67     67    393                  (  (D
Total                                                                                                                                      1,024   2,001    271      87      81   3,463                    X
0
la 648 m2 each at Dey Eth and Kep Srau, 254 m2 Chamkar Leou
l 40 m2 at Kap Srau, Toul Samrong and Chamkar Leou
vc At Dey Eth ($10,000) Kap Srau ($90000) Toul Samrong ($ 100,000) and Chamkar Leou ($50,000)                                                                                                          t.
vd At Kap Srau ($10000) and Toul Samrong ($20,000)
bs For two seed farms



Royal Govemment of Cambodia
Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Table 5. Plant Protection Service Establishment /a
Detailed Costs
(US $)
Quantities                                                  Base Cost ('000)
Unit    1997      1998      1999      2000    2001      Total   Unit Cost  1997   1998   1999    2000   2001   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Vehicles
Double cabin pick-up                  unit          2         -         -        -        -         2    20,000     40        -       -       -       -     40
Motorcycles                           unit         10         -         -        -        -        10     1,500      15       -       -       -       -     15
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                                                      55                                     55
B. Equipment
Office Equipment/b                    unit                                                                          32        -       -       -       -     32
Communication Equipment /c            unit                                                                          50        -       -       -       -     50
Laboratory Equipment /d               unit                                                                            -    200        -       -       -    200
Agricultural Equipment                LS                                                                            60        -       -       -       -     60
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                    142    200        -       -       -    342
C. Training
Local Training                        unit          -         3         3        3        3        12     2,000       -      6       6       6       6      24
D. Technical Assistance
Plant Protection Specialist          month          -        12        12        -        -       24    15,000        -    180     180        -       -    360   w
Pesticides Lab Technician            month          -         6         6        -        -        12    10,000             60      60        -       -    120
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                                           -    240    240         -       -    480
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                 197    446      246       6       6    901
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Training Allowances /e               LS                                                                            13      19      19      19      19      90
B. Travel Allowances                    unit                                                                           3      13      13      13      13      53
C. Office Operating Expenses            unit                                                                           2       2       2       2       2      10
D. Laboratory Operating Expenses        unit                                                                            -      2       5       5       5      17
E. 0 & M Vehicles & Equipment           unit                                                                           4       7      15      15      15      56
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                   21      43      54      54      54    225
Total                                                                                                                   218    489      300      60      60   1,126
\a exduding IPM
\b induding computer, printer & photocopier
\c includes faxes, radios, mobile telephones for central & provincial Plant Protection offices & staff
\d for the central Plant Protection Laboratory
\e 4 counterparts + 4 junior staff for 5 years, and 4 laboratory technicians ($1 500/staff-yr) for 4 years
(D (D
t4 :
H
0
F-h



Royal Govemment of Cambodia
Agrcultural Productivity Improvement Project
Table 6. Integrated Pest Management Program
Detailed Costs
(US $)
Quantities                                                               Base Cost ('000)
Unit     1997       1998        1999        2000         2001         Total     Unit Cost  1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Vehicles
Double cabin pick-up                                     unit           2           -          -            -             -            2    20,000      40        -       -           -          40
Motorcydes /a                                            unit          20         20          20                          -           60     1,500      30      30       30       -       -      90
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                                                                                         70      30       30       -        -    130
B. Equipment
Office Equipment /b                                      unit                                                                                           14        -       -               -      14
Communication Equipment /c                               unit                                                                                            5                    -                   5
Audio-Visual Equipment /d                                unit                                                                                           20        -       -       -       -      20
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                                                        39                                       39
C. Training
1. Training of Trainers
TOT activities                                         unit           1          1           1            -             -            3    40,000      40      40      40        -       -    120
National IPM Workshops                                 unit           -          1           1            1            -            3      4,500       -       5       5        5       -      14
Study Toum for IPM Trainers /e                         LS             -          1           1            1            -            3      5,000       -       5       5        5       -      15
Subtotal Training of Trainers                                                                                                                           40      50       50      10       -     149
2. Farner Field Schools                                                                                                                                                                                 I
FamnerFieldSchools                                    unit           40         95        160           190          190          675        600      24      57      96      114     114     405
Innovation Fund for foilow-up activities if            LS                                                                                              1       2       3       4       3       13    P.
Subtotal Fanmer Field Schools                                                                                                                           25      59      99      118     117     418
Subtotal Training                                                                                                                                         65     109      149     128     117     567
D. Technical Assistance
IPM Spedaiist /g                                       month           12         12         12            12           12           60                      -        -       -           -       -
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                                                     174     139      179     128     117     736
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Training Allowances
National IPM Coordinators (1+2)                        month           36         36         36            36           36          180        200       7       7       7        7       7      36
Nafional IPM Program Trainers (4)                      month           48         48         48            48           48          240        150       7       7       7       7        7      36
Provincial IPM Coordinators(IO)                        month           60         60         96           120          120          456        100       6       6      10       12      12      46
ProvincialIPMTrainers/h                                month          180        540        720         1,080         1,080        3,600       100      18      54      72      108     108     360
Subtotal Training Allowances                                                                                                                              38      74      96      134     134     478
B. TravelAllowancesfi                                      unit          27         57         75           107          107          373        150       4       9      11       16      16      56
C. Office & Miscellaneous Expenses                         unit                                                                                           13      14      17       17      17      77
D. 0 & M Vehicles & Equipment
Vehides                                                  unit           2          2           2            2            2            10     3,500       7       7       7        7       7      35
Motorcydes                                              unit           15         30         45            45           45          180        350       5      11      16       16      16      63
Equipment                                                unit           -          1          1             1            1            4      3,000       -       3       3        3       3      12
Subtotal 0 & M Vehicles & Equipment                                                                                                                       12      21      26       26      26     110
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                                       67     117      150     193     193     721
Total                                                                                                                                                       241     255     329     321     310   1,456
va for provincial co-ordinators and famner trainers                                                                                                                                                       Q   s
vb indudes computer (2) & printer, photocopier, etc                                                                                                                                                      LD  tD
\c indudes fax, mobile telephone, etc
\d indudes video camera, television set, projector & screen                                                                                                                                               i'
ve For tan people - in the region                                                                                                                                                                         o
Xf Funds to encourage innovative field studies by FFS graduates                                                                                                                                           th
\g To be financed by FAO
\h Number of Trainers: 15,45,60,90,90
\i For IPM trainers & coordinators at all levels @ $150 per year per person



Royal Govemment of Cambodia
Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Table 7. Disease Control & Management Support Services - Animal Production Office & Support to DAHP /a
Detailed Costs
(US $)
Quantities                                                        Base Cost (000)
Unit        1997       1998       1999      2000       2001       Total    Unit Cost  1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipment
Computer (1). printer (1) & software              unit               1          -         -          -         -           1     6,000       6        -       -        -       -       6
Computer (2), printer (1) & software              unit               1          -         -          -         -           1    11,000      11        -       -        -       -      11
Fax & communicaions equipment                     unit               1               -    -                    -           1     5,000       5        -       -        -       -       5
Photocopier /b                                    unit               I          -         -          -         -           1     3,000       3        -       -        -       -       3
Office fumiture                                    LS                1          -         -          -         -           1     5,000       5        -       -        -       -       S
Aircondibioner                                    unit               3                                                    3        750       2        -       -        -       -       2
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                                            32        -        -       -       -      32
B. Double cabin pick-up /c                          unit               3                                                     3 3    20,000    60        -       -        -       -      60
C. DAHP Oflice building repair /d                    m2              360          -          -         -         -        360         25       9        -        -       -       -       9
D. Feed resources and management study             month               3          1         1          1                    6    15,000       45       15      15       15       -      90
E. Overseas Training le
StudyTours-STI                                person/week            2          2         2         2          2         10      2,140       4        4       4       4        4      21
Conferences-ST2                                personA/eek           1          1         1          1         1          5      2,140       2        2       2       2        2      11
Training Courses - ST3                         personANeek           1          1         1          1         1          5      2,140       2        2       2        2       2      11
Subtotal Overseas Training                                                                                                                     9        9       9        9       9      T1
F. Local Training
Project startup workshop                           LS                1          -         -          -         -          1    12,000       12        -       -        -       -      12                     t
Management training Ml                             LS                1          1         -          -         -          2      4,000       4        4       -        -       -       8
Technical workshop - TW1-5                        unit               1          1         1          1         1          5      4,000       4        4       4       4        4      20
Subtotal Local Training                                                                                                                       20        8       4        4       4      40
G. Technical Assistance
Central Adviser                                  month               6         12         -          -         -         18    15,000       90      180       -       -        -     270
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                                         265      212      28       28      13     544
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Training allowances
APOflice Coordinator                             month              12         12        12         12        12         60        170       2        2       2       2        2      10
National Coordinator                             month              12         12        12        12         12         60        200       2        2       2       2        2      12
Assistant (AcctVFin/Adm)                         month              12         12        12        12         12         60        150       2        2       2       2        2       9
Assistant (Tech, M&E)                            month              12         12        12        12         12         60        150       2        2       2       2        2       9
Drivers                                          month              36        36         36        36         36        180         60       2        2       2       2        2      11
Secretary                                        month              12         12        12        12         12         60         60       1        1       1       1        1       4
Subtotal Training allowances                                                                                                                  11       11      11      11       11      SS
B. Incremental Operating Expenses
Travel allowances /f                               LS                4          4         4         4          4         20      2,000       8        8       8       8        8      40
Office matenals /g                                 LS                1          1         1         1          1          5      2,400       2       2        2       2        2      12
Vehicdeoperation&maintenance                      unit               3          3         3         3          3         15      3,500      11       11      11      11       11      53
Utilibies&buildingmaintenance                      LS                1          1         1         1          1          5    10,000       10       10      10      10       10      50
Office supplies                                    LS                1          1         1         1          1          5       600        1        1       1       1        1       3
Subtotal Incremental Operating Expenses                                                                                                       32       32      32      32       32     158
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                           42       42      42      42       42     212
Total                                                                                                                                           307     254       70      70      55      756
X  (D
\a Support to DAHP includes senior management, the regional coordinator, HRD, library & publications; and the admin/planning/tinance/personnel sections inder the V-D Admin.                                   _X
\b In library / publications unit
\c One vehicle is for the regional coordinator based at provincial centre                                                                                                                                      0
\d repairs & rehabilitabon for old building
Xe Codes correspond to those in project document. Trainings not costed are essentially in-house'.                                                                                                              N
Xf Including accommodation for staff travelling outside Phnom Penh.
\9 $50 / month for DAPH, Library/publications, HRD & regional coordination.



Royal Govemment of Cambodia
Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Table 8. Disease Controi & Management Support Services - National Animal Health & Production Centre
Detailed Costs
(US $)
Quantities                                                          Base Cost ('000)
Unit     1997        1998       1999       2000        2001       Total    Unit Cost  1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Laboratory & Office bulding /a                 m2           750           -          -           -          -        750       300      225       -        -       -       -    225
B. Vehbhics
Doublecabin pick-ups                            unit           2           -          -                                 2    20.000      40        -       -        -              40
C. Equlpnmnt
Laboratory equipment/b                          LS                                                                      I -  -  -  -  1   100,000  100  -  -        -       -    100
Aircondiwoner                                   unit          12           -          -           -                    12       750        9               -        -               9
Computer, printer & software                    unit           3           -          -          -           -          3      6,000      18       -       -        -       -      18
Photoopier                                      unit           1                                                        1      3,000       3                                        3
Office fumiture                                 LS             I           -                                 -          1      9,000      9        -       -        -       -       9
Subtotal Equipnmnt                                                                                                                         139       -       -        -             139
0. Overseas Training
Laboratory proceduresfellowships LU-1           LS             4          4           -          -           -          8     4,000       16      16       -        -       -      32
Laboratory management fellowship LU-2           LS             I           -                                 -          1     4,000       4        -       -       -        -       4
Epidemiology scholarship FU-1                   LS            0.5          1          -          -           -        1.5    30,000       15      30       -        -       -      45
Subital Oveme" Training                                                                                                                     35      46       -        -       -      81
E. Technical Assistance
LaboratoryAdviser/c                           month            6          9           -          -           -         15    15,000      90      135       -       -        -    225
F. Studies
Epidemiology specialist                         unit           6          3           2          1           -         12    15,000      90       45      30      15        -     180
Total Invesment Costa                                                                                                                       619      226      30      15        -    890
II. Recurrent Costa
A. Training allowances
Manager                                       month           12         12          12         12         12          60       170       2        2       2       2       2       10
Engineers (10)                                month          120        120         120        120        120         600       150      18       18      18      18      18       90
Technicians(11)                               month          132         132        132        132        132         660       100      13       13      13      13      13       66
Drivers                                       month           12         24          24         24         24         108        60       1        1       1       1       1        6
Subtotal Training allowances                                                                                                               34       35      35      35      35      173
B. Incrmental Operating Expenses
Utidities & bulding maintenance                 LS             1          1           1          1          1           5    10,000      10       10      10      10      10       50
Vehicle O&M                                     unit           2          2           2          2          2          10     3,500       7        7       7       7       7       35
Laboratory supplies /d                          LS            1.5         1           1          1          1         5.5    41,000      62      41       41      41      41     226
Office supplies                                 LS             1           1          1          1          1           5     2,000       2        2       2       2       2       10
Travel aDowances le                             LS             1           1          1          1          1           5     4,320       4        4       4       4       4       22
Subtotal Incremntal Operating Expenses                                                                                                     85       64      64      64      64      342
Total Recurrent Costa                                                                                                                       119       99      99      99      99      515
Total                                                                                                                                        738     325     129      114      99   1,405
b To house the NAHPC (lab, epidemiology,admin sections, and a lecture theatre).                                                                                                               Q  :
\b See attached table for breakdown provided by DAHP                                                                                                                                          ID M
vc Should assist at the VPL (10%) and NAHPC (90%)                                                                                                                                             0o
vd See attached table for breakdown provided by DAHP. S20K included in year 1 for retroactive financing for CWS.                                                                                 H
\e 6 staff in epidemiology unit and 2 drivers, 15 days/month @ $3/day                                                                                                                       0e



Royal Govemment of Cambodia
Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Table 9. Disease Control & Management Support Services - Animal Health Office & Vaccine Production Laboratory /a
Detailed Costs
(US $)
Quantities                                                           Base Cost ('000)
Unit      1997        1998        1999      2000       2001        Total    Unit Cost   1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Building repairs - old laboratory /b              m2             40           -          -          -          -          40        200        8        -        -        -       -        8
B. Equipment
Fermenter /c                                      LS               -           1          -          -          -           1    20,000         -      20             -            -       20
Watertank                                         unit             1           -          -          -          -           1     10,000       10        -        -       -        -       10
Computer (1), printer (1) & software              unit             1                -                -          -           1      6,000        6        -        -       -        -        6
Automatic bottle filter                           unit             1           -          -          -          -           1      2,000        2        -        -       -        -        2
Automatic bottte washer                           unt              I           -          -          -          -           1       800         1        -        -       -        -        1
Water bath, glassware                             LS               I           -          -          -          -           1    10,000        10        -        -       -        -       10
Water sterilizer /d                               unit             1           -          -          -          -           1       500         1        -        -       -        -        1
Air conditioner                                   LS               3                 -               -          -           3       750        2         -        -       -        -        2
Microscope /e                                     LS              1            -          -          -          -           1      2,700       3         -       -        -        -       3
Electronic Scale                                  LS               1           -          -          -          -           1      2,000       2         -       -        -        -       2
Refrigerator                                      LS              1            -          -          -          -           1       700        1         -       -        -        -        1
Freeze dryer                                      LS              1            -          -          -          -           1     10,000      10        -        -        -        -      10
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                                              47       20         -       -        -       67
C. Overseas Training
Laboratory management fellowship VP-1             LS              1            -          -          -          -           1      2,000       2        -        -        -        -       2 
Quality control                                   LS              1            -          -          -          -          1       2,000       2        -        -        -        -       2                 1
Vaccine Production techniques                     LS               1           -          -          -          -           1      2,000       2        -        -        -        -       2
Subtotal Overseas Training                                                                                                                       6         -        -       -        -       6
D. Studies
Privatisation study                               unit            4            -          -          -          -          4     15,000       60        -        -        -       -       60
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                                            121      20         -       -        -      141
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Training allowances
Animal Health Coordinator                        month           12          12         12         12         12          60        170        2        2        2        2       2       10
VPL Manager                                      month           12          12           -          -          -         24        170        2        2        -        -        -       4
Technicians (9)                                  month          108         108           -          -          -        216        100       11       11        -        -       -       22
Subtotal Training allowances                                                                                                                    15       15        2        2       2       36
B. Incremental Operating Expenses
VPL utilities & building maintenance              LS              I           1                      -          -          2      5,000        5        5        -        -        -      10
Vehicle O&M /f                                    LS              1           1           -          -          -          2      3,500        4        4        -        -        -       7
Office supplies                                   LS              1           1          1          1          1           5      2,000        2        2       2        2        2       10
Laboratory supplies /g                            LS            1.45          1           -         -          -        2.45     45,000       65       45        -        -        -     110
Travel expenses /th                               LS              1           1           -          -         -           2      1,500        2        2        -        -        -       3
Subtotal Incremental Operating Expenses                                                                                                         77       57        2        2       2      140
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                             92       72        4        4       4      176
Total                                                                                                                                             213       92       4        4        4      317
\a Support provided for 2 years. Funds for the purchase of HS vaccine for the 4 pilot provinces are included in DCT_12 for project years 3 and 4, Thereafter private sector production and full cost recovery / govt funding.  (D  (D
\b including fixing water supply                                                                                                                                                                                 X
\c Purchase will depend on the findings of the privatisation study                                                                                                                                           '0
\d 10 liters/h                                                                                                                                                                                                0
\e 4 lenses                                                                                                                                                                                                   -h
\f For existing 4WD vehicle providing vaccines to 4 provinces, and 14 districts.                                                                                                                              ti
%g Actual expenditure during 1995 X 1.5 to ensure an increased output to Imillion doses per year (see attached sheet). Retroative financing of 20K for AFS.                                                   _l
\h incluing travel for VPL staff and driver



Royal Govemment of Cambodia
Agricultural Productivity Imprwment Project
Table 10. Basic Animal Heat Services - Study Team & Provincial Oticas of Animal Heaith & Producion la
Detailed Coats
(US S)
Quantities                                                     Basa Cost (C000)
Unit     1997       1998      1999      2000      2001      Total    UnitCoat  1997    1998    1999   2000   2001    Total
L Investment Coats
A. Clvil Workrs
Provincialoffices/tb                            m2           100                                                100       220      22        -       -       -             22
Districtoffices/c                              m2            700         -         -         -         -        700       220     154        -       -       -       -    154
Laboratories /d                                m2            120         -         -         -         -        120       330      40       -       -        -             40
Subtotal Civil Works                                                                                                                218       -       -        -       -    216
B. Vehiclu
Do  cabin pick-up                              unit            4                                                  4    20,000      8o        -      -        -       -     80
Motorcycls/a                                   unit            7         -         -         -         -          7     1,500      11       -        -       -       -     11
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                                                                    91       -       -        -       -     91
C. Equipment
Fumiture                                       sam            1          -         -         -         -         18     2,000      38       -       -        -             38
Laboratory equipment /f                        set             3         -         -         -         -          3     6,000      15       -                              15
Ofice fumiture & vet equip Provine             sat             4         -         -         .         -          4     1,500       e           -                           e
Of8cateuwtre&vet equipitritn                   set            14         -         -         -         -         14       eoo      11               --                      I
Computer, pinte & software Ig                  set             4                                                  4     8,000      24       -                              24
Video euipment                                 unit            4         -         -         -         -          4     1,500       6       -       -        -              6
Telecommunications                              LS             4         -         -         -         -          4     7,000      28        -      -        -       -     28
Coid boxes                                     unit           28         -         -         -         -         28       100       3                -           -          3
Subtotl Equipment                                                                                                                   129       -       -       -             129
D. Privaisaon Fund lh                            LS              1         1         1         1         -          4    52,500      53      53      53      53             210
E. Trining
National MD consuRants f                       LS              1         1         1         1         1          5     1,000       1       1       1       1       1       5
Management tratirng                           courn           4          -         -         -         -          4       500       2           -       -       -           2
Technical sklls                               cme             3         -         -         -         -          3       900       3       -       -       -               3
Angual workshop WP-1                          course           4         4         4         4         4         20     1,200       5       5       5       5       5      24
Local tudytour SP-1                           course          4         4         4         4          4         20       500       2       2       2       2       2      10
Administrative training                       course           4         -         -         -         -          4       200       1       -       -        -       -      1 
Subtoal Training                                                                                                                     13       8       8       a       8      45
F. Technical Aalstance
ProvincialAdvisers4                           month          30         36        6                              72     2,500      75      90      15                     180
Tat llnvetment Coats                                                                                                                  578     150      75      so       8     870
II. Recurrnt Coats
A. Training Allowances
Technicians (7) k                             month          84        84         84       84        84         420       140      12      12      12      12      12      59
Provincial Coordinators                       month          48        48        48        48        48         240       150       7       7       7       7       7      38
Assistants                                    month          48         48        48        48        48        240       140       7       7       7       7       7      34
Drivers                                       month          48        48        48        48        48         240        80       3       3       3       3       3      14
Subtla Tranin Allowances                                                                                                             29      29      29      29      29     143
6. Incremental Operang Expense
Utilies & building mamtenance                  LS             4         4         4         4         4         20        300       1       1       1       1       1       6
VehicdeO&M                                     unit           4         4         4         4         4          20     3,500      14      14      14      14      14      70
Motonrydcs O&M                                 unit           7         7          7        7          7         35       350       2       2       2       2       2      12
Office supplies                                set            4         4         4         4         4         20       600        2       2       2       2       2      12
Lab supplies & materials                       set            3         3         3          3        3          15     2,500       8       8       8       8       8      38
TrVIN tl Sbances t                             LS             4          4         4         4         4         20     1,000       4       4       4       4       4      20
Travel allowances Im                           LS             4         4         4         4         4         20        500       2       2       2       2       2      10
Subtotal Incremental Operating Expenses                                                                                             t4       34      34      34      34    188
Total Recurrent Coats                                                                                                                 62       62      62      62      62    311
Total                                                                                                                                 638     212     137     122      70   1,180
\a Study Team: Prvincial team to work with NAHPC to undertake feld studies and operate a smat laboratory in 3 prvinces.
\b Each provincial OAPH rehabilitates 25 m2 office.
\c 14 district office buildings, average size 50 m2.
\d New constuction - three laboratories X 40m2                                                                                                                                                       (O 
\e one for Krate, two for other three provinces                                                                                                                                                         X
Vf see attached table for breakdown by DAHP                                                                                                                                                             i
\g One for each provincial OAHP
\h For vaccine supply chain; contingency for village vet kis; limited support to medicine and treatment supply chain.                                                                                Q
\i For gender sensitization training, training of trainers, and montoring of women's participation / targetting                                                                                     H-h
\ Intemational volunteer veterinary surgeons
'1 7 technicians(1 in Krtioe, 2 in otherthree provinces) X 12 months in each year                                                                                                                    -1
\I For provincial staff travelling to distrcts and villages for project work.
\m Inciudes travel allowances for study team



Royal Govemment of Cambodia
Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Table 11. Basic Animal Health Services - Training Team
Detailed Costs
(US S)
Quanties                                                                Base Cost ('BOO)
Unit      1997        1998        1999       2000        2001         Total     Unit Cost  1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Vehicles
Motorcycles                                      unit            35           -           -          -           -           35       1,500     53        -        -       -        -      53
B. Equipment
Trainhg material                                 set              4           -           -          -           -            4       1,000      4        -        -       -        -       4
Vet equipment                                    set             35           -           -          -           -           35        150       5        -        -       -        -       5
Reftrigerators                                   unit             4          14           -          -           -           18      1,000       4       14        -       -        -      18
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                                                 13      14        -       -        -      27
C. Training & Monitoring
Video production                                 LS               -           1           -          -           -             1    10,000        -      10        -       -        -      10
Traiing materiais production                     LS               4           4          4           4           4           20      1,000       4        4        4       4       4       20
Trahing of Tralners /a                          trainee          35          26           -          -           -           61        210       7        5                -        -      13
Village Vet Training                           trainee            -         280        280         280        280          1,120       200        -      56      56       56      56      224
MonitoringandEvaluationlb                        LS               7           7          7           7          7            35      1,800      13       13      13       13      13       63
Prek Leap /c                                     LS               1           1          1           4          4            1 1     1,000       1        1        1       4       4       1 1
Subtotal Training & Monitoring                                                                                                                    25       89      74       77      77      341       1
D. Vaccine and medicine supply
Villiagevetmedkinegrants                         LS               -         280        280         280        280          1,120       100        -      28      28       28      28      112
Training team medicine grants                    LS              35           -           -          -           -           35         60       2        -        -       -        -       2
Cattile vaccines (Biackleg, Anthrax)             LS               1           1          1           1           1            5     15,000      155      1       15       15      15       75      1
HS vaccine /d                                    LS               -           -          1           1           -            2    50,000         -       -      50       50        -     100
Subtotal Vaccine and medicine supply                                                                                                              17       43      93       93      43      289
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                                             108      146      167     170     120      710
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Training Alkloances
Trainers/Engineers(3)/e                         month            18         36          36          36         36           162        150       3        5       5        5       5       24
Trainers/Technicians(25)/t                      month           150        300         300         300        300          1,350       140      21       42      42       42      42      189
Subtotal Training Allowances                                                                                                                      24       47      47       47      47      213
B. Incremental Operating Expenses
Motorcycles O&M                                  unit            35         35          35          35         35           175        350      12       12      12       12      12      61
Travel Alowances                                 LS               4          4           4           4          4            20      1,000       4        4       4        4       4       20
Subtotal Incremental Operating Expenses                                                                                                           16       16      16       16      16       81
C. Supplies & Materials
Office supplies                                  LS               4          4           4           4          4            20      1,000       4        4       4       4        4      20
Coid chain repair                                LS               1           1          1           1          1             5      1,000       1        1       1        1       1        5
Subtotal Supplies & Materials                                                                                                                      5        5       5        5       5       25
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                               45       69      69       69      69      320
Total                                                                                                                                               153     215      235     238      188   1,029   9D
M(DW
\a 26 trainers in year 2 for other districts in 4 provinces                                                                                                                                          I-.
\b one for each two project districts
\c For field visits from Prek Leap Agricultural College (Yr 1-3) and contract in-service training (Yr 4-5).                                                                                          0
vd To buy HS vaccines for the 4 pilot provinces; and thereafter to be financed either by charging farmers the full cost of the vaccines, or by the govemment.
\e 3X 6 months in yr 1; 3 X 12 months in yrs 2-5 
V 27 X 6 months in yr 1; 27 X 12 months in yrs 2 - 5



Royal Govemment of Cambodia
Agrcultural Productivity Improvement Project
Table 12. Promotion of Animal Production
Detailed Costs
(US $)
Quantities                                   Unit                Base Cost (000)
Unit     1997       1998      1999       2000       2001       Total     Cost    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Vehicles
Motorcycles/a                                   unit           7          -          -          -         -           7    1,500      11        -       -        -       -      11
B. Field Activites
Demonstrations/trials                           unit           -          4         4          4          4         16   3,000         -      12       12      12       12      48
C. Training
Animal production lb                             LS            1          1          1         1          1           5   5 000        5       5        5       5        5      25
Promotional / extension materials                LS            -          4         4          4          4          16   1,000        -       4       4        4       4       16
Seed / planting materials                        LS            4          4         4          4          4         20      500        2       2        2       2        2      10
National oonsultants/c                           LS            2          2         2          2          2          10   1,000        2       2       2        2        2      10
Subtotal Training                                                                                                                        9      13       13      13       13      61
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                                    20      25       25      25       25     120
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Training Allowances
APTechnicians/d                                month          84         84        84         84         84        420      140       12      12       12      12       12      59
B. Incremental Operating Expenses
Motorcycles O&M                                 unit           7          7         7          7          7         35      350        2       2       2        2        2      12
Travel expenses /e                               LS             -         4         4          4          4          16     500        -       2        2       2        2       8
Subtotal Incremental Operating Expenses                                                                                                  2       4        4       4        4      20
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                     14      16       16      16       16      79
Total                                                                                                                                     34       41      41       41      41      199
\a for 7 AP technicians
\b including training of 7 AP technicians and farmer training in animal feeding, about 35 trainees/unit
\c To work with the intemabonal Animal Production Expert and provincial offices.
\d Seven staff in 4 provinces (2+2+2+1)
\a for AP technicians
Dt (D
0
O X,



Royal Govemnment of Cambodia
Agrlcuttud PrOduatw   Imt  ovemeM Proed
Table 13. Department of Hydraulics Capacity Building
Detailed Costs
(US $)
Quantities                                                       Base Cost ('000)
Unit        1997      1998      1999       2000      2001       Total    Unit Cost  1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Teaching Aids I Training Equipment
Video camera                                              unit                        I          -         -          -          1     3,000                3       -        -       -       3
Video production                                           LS               -          -         1         1          1          3      1,000       -       -       1       1        1       3
Subtotal Teaching Aids I Training Equipment                                                                                                           -       3       1       1        1       6
B. Training
. Forma training
Soib laboratory fieldwork & materials /a                 LS               -         I          -         -                     1    15,000        -      15       -        -       -      15
2. Non-ormal training
Workshops /b                                            unit              2         4         4          4         4          18     2,250       5       9        9       9       9       41
Local study tours                                   person/week           -        20        20         20        20         80        300        -      6        6       6       6       24
Subtotal Non-formal training                                                                                                                       5       15      15      15       15      65
3. Overseas tralning
Regional study tours                                person/week           -         2         2          2         2          8      2,140        -      4        4       4       4       17
Subtotal Training                                                                                                                                    5       34      19      19       19      97
C. Technical Assistance
Chief Technical Adviser                                  month              6        12         6          -          -        24    15,000       90      180      90       -        -    360      W
D. Studies                                                                                                                                                                                          HU,
ToT&TrainingMatenais/c                                    unit              3         6          -         -                     9    10,000      30      60        -       -        -      90
Soils Laboratory Technician Trainer /d                    unit              -         6          -                   -          6      5,000       -      30        -       -        -      3
Legal Expert for Water Law / Rights                       unit              3         2         1          -         -          6    15,000       45      30       15       -       -      go
Subtotal Studies                                                                                                                                    75     120       15       -       -      210
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                                               170     337      125      20      20      673
II. Recurrent Casts
A. Training allowances
Senior management                                        month            24         24        24         24        24        120        250       6       6       6        6       6      30
B. Miscellaneous Water Law/ Rights                           LS                                                                                      5       3        2       -        -      10
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                                 11       9       8        6       6       40
Total                                                                                                                                                 1       3m46    133       26      26     713
%a Refer Appendix C, page 43
\b Three day workshop for about 25 participants X $30 all inclusive cost per person.
\c Specialist to develop & refine training modules and train staff (6) of ITC & PLAC
\d Refer Appendix C, page 43
0
I-



Royal Government of Cambodia
Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Table 14. Agricultural Hydraulics - Hydrology Information System
Detailed Costs
(US $)
Quantities                                                        Base Cost ('000)
Unit     1997       1998       1999      2000       2001       Total    Unit Cost  1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
I. Investment Coats
A. Civil Works
Construction of Office Buiding                     m2           250          -          -         -          -        250       400      100        -       -       -        -     100
B. Vehicles
Double cabin pick-up                               unit           2          -          -         -          -          2    20,000       40        -       -       -        -      40
C. Equipment
Communications / radios                            unit           8          -          -         -          -          8      3,000      24        -       -       -        -      24
GIS computer workstation                           set            1          -          -         -          -          1    20,000       20        -       -       -        -      20
Groundwater computer workstation upgrade           LS                                                                                     11       3        3       3       3       23
Data tapes /a                                     tape            3          3         3          3         3          15      2,300       7       7       7        7       7       35
GPS field instruments                              set             -         4          -         4          -          8     10,000       -      40        -      40        -      80
Soils lab. equipment                               LS                                                                                      -      13        -       -        -      13
Catchmentgauging equipmenthb                       set             1         -          -         -          -          1    10,000       10       -        -       -        -      10
Construction materials & small tools               LS              -         1          1         1         1           4      2,500       -       3        3       3       3       10
Office equipment                                   LS                                                                                      -      25        -       -        -      25
Officefumiture                                     LS                                                                                     10       -        -       -        -      10
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                                          82      90       12      52       12     249     U'
D. Technical Assistance
Hydro-Geologist                                   month           2         12         4          1         1          20     15,000      30     180      60       15      15      300
E. Studie
Monitoring & evaluation                            unit           -          3         1          1         1           6     12,000       -      36      12       12      12       72
Catchmentgaugingspecialistlc                       unit           3          2          -         -          -          5      6,500      20      13        -       -        -      33
Subtotal Studies                                                                                                                            20      49       12      12      12      105
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                                       271     319       84      79       39     794
II. Recurfent Codst
A. Training Allowances
Staff allowance /d                                 LS                                                                                     34      34      34       41      41      184
IRIC staff support                                month          12         12        12         12        12          60       150        2       2       2        2       2        9
Subtotal Training Allowances                                                                                                                36      36      36       42      42      193
B. Incremental Operating Expenses
Office Supplies                                    LS                                                                                      2       2       4        4       4       16
Vehide O&M                                         unit           2          2         2          2         2          10      3,500       7       7       7        7       7       35
Equipment O&M                                      LS              -         1         1          1         1           4      3,000       -       3       3        3       3       12
Subtotal Incremental Operating Expenses                                                                                                      9      12       14      14      14       63
Total Recurrent Costa                                                                                                                         45      48       50      56      56      256
Total                                                                                                                                        316      367     134      136      96   1.049   1 
(D (D
\a Level 2 geocoded spot satellite digital data tapes                                                                                                                                            X
\b Refer Appendix C, page 49                                                                                                                                                                    H
\c Installation, and training in monitoring & analysis
\d GDIMH (21 + 2 others) 
It'i
-4



Royal Govemment of Cambodia
Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Table 15. Small-Scale Agricultural Hydraulics
Detailed Costs
(US S)
Quantities                                                       Base Cost ('000)
Unit     1997       1998      1999       2000      2001       Total   Unit Cost  1997    199g    1999    2000    2001    Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Rehabilitation of provincial offices /a             m2            120                    -         -         -         120       220      26        -       -       -              26
B. Vehicle lb
Double cabin pick-ups                               unit           4          3          -         -         -           7    20,000      80      60        -       -        -    140
Motorcycles                                         unit           10        10          -         -         ,          20     1.500      15      15        -       -              30
Subtoblt Vehicles                                                                                                                           95      75                               170
C. Equipment
Communications/VHFhandheldradios                    unit           10         4               -              -          14       600       6       2        -       -        -      a
Office fumiture                                     sal                                                                                    4       4                                0
Survey quipnlwt                                     set             4         2                                          6     8,000      32      16                               48
Photocopier                                         unit            3         -          -         -                    3      3,000       9        -       -       -       -       9
Computer & oftware /c                               set             -         4          -         -         -           4     5,000              20        -       -        -     20
Printer                                             unit            -         2                                         2      1,000       -       2                -               2
Constuction euipment /d                              LS                                                                                    -    450         -       -        -    450
Drating equipment                                    LS                                                                                    5       3                                8
Cameras                                             unit            4         4          -         -         -           8       300       1       1        -       -       -       2
Subtotl Equipmnt                                                                                                                            57     499                               SSS
0. Technical A"sstance
Rural Engeing Advisors                             month           12        12        12                              36      6,500      78      78      78                      234
Soclo-Econonmt ICoammnDev. Advisors                month           12        12        12                              36      6.500      78      78      78                      234
Subtotal Technial Assistance                                                                                                               156     156      156       -        -    4681
E. Training
NabcondW1D consu9,ants /e                          month            I         1         1          1         1          5      1,000       1       1        1       I       1       5                             U
Naton Censuants - farmer training f                month                      2         2         2          2          8      1,000       -       2       2        2       2       8
Subtotal Tring                                                                                                                               1       3       3        3       3      13
F. Prognarr_e ActvIes
Constucicn /g                                        LS                                                                                    -     150      150     150     150     600
Mine reconnawsance / deniiritg ,h                   unit                                                                                   -       4       10      10      10      34
Matrils (film, etc)                                 LS                                                                                     -       2       2        2       2       6
Trnpot of supples                                    LS                                                                                    -       2       2        1       1       6
Tools                                                LS                                                                                            1       1        1       1       5
Subtotal Progrenwe Activtes                                                                                                                  .    158      165      164     164     650
Tota Invsmebnt Costs                                                                                                                         330     891      324     167     167   1,883
N. Resaeant Coest
A. Traintng Aloanea
Pnrvendl staff - Phase IA                           ye r                                                                                  40      80      80       80      40     320
Reseach, trining, exnsion- Phas 1/                  LS                                                                                    10      20      20       20      10      80
Subtota  Training AJtownces                                                                                                                 50     100     100      100      SO     400
B.  _nc  ntal Oprating Expena
Staionery I consn"bes                               LS                                                                                     2       2       2        2       2       9
Vehkies erMc h                                      unit           4          7         7         7          7         32      3,500      14      25      25       25      25     tt2
Motorcycls O&M                                      unit          10         20        20        20         20         90       350        4       7       7       7        7      32
Equirmnt O&                                         LS                                                                                     ,      45      45      45       45     180
Subtotal Inrtnental Oparting Expenses                                                                                                       19      78      78       78      78     333
C. Atccnwdon A                                         LS                                                                                    -      24      24       24       -      72
Total Pecurent Costa                                                                                                                          69     202     202      202     128     805
Total                                                                                                                                        404   1,093      526     369     295   2,6888
la Both provwnc  offices ar approximetely 60 m2.                                                                                                                                                                   (D  (D
b Refer Appendix C, page 55 for veNde disposibon                                                                                                                                                                        X
Ic Two desk tops and two lap tops
\d includes dump trucks, cement mixers, light excavators, and compaction mllers                                                                                                                                    UL  H
be For gender sensitzation training, training of trainers, and monitoring of women's partcipabon  targetting                                                                                                        o
U For famier training, training of provincial & district staff                                                                                                                                                      e
\g includes labor and materials under tonre account
th Contracted to MAG
i GDIMH (44) + 10 others
j89GDIMH+Sothers
\k Provision tor 30,000 klometres per year, spare parts, maintenance, etc.
U tor two provincal advisors



Royal Government of Cambodia
Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Table 16. Medium-Scale Agricultural Hydraulics
Detailed Costs
(US $)
Quantities                            Unit               Base Cost ('000)
Unit    1997      1998     1999    2000    2001    Total    Cost   1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Feasibility Study la
Technical Assistance                     LS                                                                        60        -       -                       60
Workshops                               unit          2        2         2        -       -        6   2,250        5        5       5        -       -      14
Studies                                 unit          2        2         2        -       -        6   2,000        4       4        4        -       -      12
Subtotal Feasibility Study                                                                                           69        9       9        -       -      86
B. Construction contract                   LS                                                                         -     300      400 -_-_700
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                 69      309     409        -       -     786
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Feasibility Study
Training Allowances                      LS                                                                        15      15        4        -       -      34
Incremental Operating Expenses           LS                                                                        15      15        -       -        -      30
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                  30       30       4        -       -      64
Total                                                                                                                   99     339     413        -        -     850
\a Preparation, review and evaluation
(D (D
x
H
0
1H



Royal Govemment of Cambodia
Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Table 17. Fisheries Conservation and Management
Detailed Costs
(US $)
Quantities                                                  Base Cost ( 000)
Unit    1997      1998     1999     2000    2001      Total   Unit Cost  1997    1998    1999    2000   2001    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Vehicles and Boats
Marine patrol boat                    unit          1                                             1   180,000     180       -       -       -       -    180
Small patrol boat                     unit          5                                             5    50,000     250       -       -       -        -    250
Double cabin pick-ups /a              unit          1        -        -        -        -         1    20,000      20       -       -       -       -      20
Single cabin pick-ups /b              unit         4         -        -        -        -         4    18.000      72       -       -                      72
Subtotal Vehicles and Boats                                                                                         522       -       -       -       -    522
B. Equipment
Demarcation poles                     unit         56        -        -        -        -        56     6,500    364        -       -       -       -    364
Inboard engines                      unit          15        -        -        -        -        15    18,000     270       -       -       -       -    270
GPS                                   unit          5        -        -        -        -         5     2,000      10       -       -       -       -      10
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                  644       -                             644
C. Training
Localtraining/c                       LS           2        2         2        1        1         8     5,000      10      10      10       5       5      40      Un
D. Studies Id                                                                                                                                                        U'
Fisheries Mgmt & Conservation        unit          6        6        6         -        -        18                 -       -       -       -       -       -
Total lnvestment Costs                                                                                              1,176      10      10       5       5   1,206
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Training Allowances le               LS                                                                           15      15      15      15      1 5     73
B. Travel Allowances /f                 LS                                                                            4       4       4       4       4      20
C. Office operating expenses            LS                                                                            3       3       3       3       3      15
0. Operaton & maintenance
Vehidles, boat & equipment            LS                                                                           30      33      33      33      33     162
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                  51      55      55      55      55     270
Total                                                                                                                1,227     65      65      60      60   1,476
\a 1 double cabin truck for DOF inspection unit
%b 4 single cabin pick-ups for provincial inspection units, 1 double cabin for DOF inspection unit
\c courses I workshops                                                                                                                                              Fd D
\d Financed by DANIDA                                                                                                                                                 : 
\e 2 senior counterparts ($24001staff-yr) + 2 medium-level staff ($1800/staff-yr) + 4 junior staff ($1200 staff-yr) + 2 support staff ($720/staff-yr)               (D X
\f $80/week; 10 staff.                                                                                                                                              I -
0
-J



Royal Government of Cambodia
Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Table 19. Department of Fisheries Capacity Building
Detailed Costs
(US $)
Quantities                                                  Base Cost ('000)
Unit    1997      1998     1999    2000    2001      Total   Unit Cost  1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Office renovation                 LS                                                                          100                                       100
B. Vehicles
Single cabin pick-up              unit         1         -        -        -       -         1    18,000       18        -       -       -       -       18
Double cabin pick-up              unit         1         -        -        -       -         1    20,000       20        -       -       -       -      20
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                                                38        -       -       -        -      38
C. Equipment
Office equipment                  LS                                                                           25        -       -       -       -      25
Communications equipment          LS                                                                           10        -       -       -       -       10
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                               35        -       -       -               35
D. Training
Overseas study tours             tour           -        -        5        -       -         5      3,000       -        -      15       -       -      15
Local training                    LS           2         2        2        -       -         6      1,000       2       2       2        -       -       6
Subtotal Training                                                                                                 2       2       17       -        -      21
E. Technical Assistance
Senior policy /a                month          6         3        3        -       -        12    15,000       90      45      45        -       -     180
F. Studies
Fisheries law specialist          unit         3         -        -        -       -         3    15,000       45       -        -       -       -      45
Total Investment Costs                                                                                            310      47       62       -        -    419
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Training Allowances/b            LS                                                                           15      15       15      15      15       73
B. Travel Allowances /c             unit                                                                          4       4       4        4       4      20
C. Operating expenses               LS                                                                            2       3       2        2       2      11
D. Operation & maintenance
Vehicles & equipment              LS                                                                            1       3       3        4       4      14
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                              22      24       23      24      24      118
Total                                                                                                             332       71      85      24       24     537
\a in 1997 in 2 visits of 3 months
\b 2 senior counterparts ($2400/staff-yr) + 2 medium-level staff ($1800/staff-yr) + 4 junior staff ($1200 staff-yr) + 2 support staff ($720/staff-yr)             (D D
Xc $80/week; 10 staff.
0
I-h



Royal Govemment of Cambodia
Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Table 18. Freshwater Fisheries Research
Detailed Costs
(US $)
Quantities                                                Base Cost ('000)
Unit    1997     1998     1999    2000    2001    Total   Unit Cost  1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Fence                                        LS                                                                       160        -       -       -       -    160
Water supply & drainage                      LS                                                                       200        -       -       -       -    200
Building renovation                          LS                                                                        10        -                              10
Training dormitory                           LS                                                                        50        -       -       -       -      50
Hatchery renovations                         LS                                                                        30        -       -       -       -      30
Subtotal Civil Works                                                                                                    450                                      450
B. Vehicles
Double cabin pick-up                        unit          1        -        -        -       -        1    20,000      20        -       -       -       -      20
Motorcycles                                 unit          4        -        -        -4                     1,500       6        -       -       -       -       6
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                                                        26        -       -       -       -      26
C. Equipment
Laboratory equipment                         LS                                                                       150        -       -       -       -    150 
Generators                                   LS                                                                        11        -       -       -       -      11     '
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                      161        -       -       -       -    161
D. Training
Overseas study tours                        tour          -        8        -        -       -        8     3,000       -      24        -       -       -      24
Local training                               LS                                                                        20       5       5       5        5      40
Subtotal Training                                                                                                        20      29       5        5       5      64
E. Studies
Hatchery Renovation Specialist              unit          3        -        -        -       -        3    15,000      45        -       -       -       -      45
Indigenous fish breeding specialist         unit          -        3        1        -       -       4    15,000        -      45      15        -       -      60
Subtotal Studies                                                                                                         45      45      15        -       -    105
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                    702      74      20        5       5     806
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Training Allowances /a                      LS                                                                        15      15      15       15      15      73
B. Travel Allowances /b                       unit                                                                        4       4       4       4        4      20
C. Laboratory operating expenses               LS                                                                         5       5       8       10      13      41
D. Operation & maintenance
Vehicles & equipment                         LS                                                                         2       3       3       3        3      12
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                      25      26      29      31       34     145
Total                                                                                                                      727     100      49      36      39     951    Pi
(D X
\a 2 senior counterparts ($2400/staff-yr) + 2 medium-level staff ($1800/staff-yr) + 4 junior staff ($1200 staff-yr) + 2 support staff ($720/staff-yr)                     co H
\b $80/week; 10 staff.                                                                                                                                                     O



Royal Govemment of Cambodia
Agriculural Productivity Improvement Projet
Table 20. Smallholder Rubber Research
Detailed Costs
(US S)
Quantites                                                        Base Cost ('000)
Unit    1997       1998      1999      2000       2001      Total    Unit Cost  1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Office Rehabilitation                         LS                                                                                  10        -       -       -        -      10
B. Vehicles
Double cabin pick-up                          unt           -         6          -         -                     6    20,000        -     120       -       -        -    120
Singb cabin pick-up /a                        unit          -         1          -         -          -          1    18,000        -      18       -       -        -      18
Motorcycles                                   unit          -         4          4         -          -          8      1,500       -      6        6           -          12
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                                                                     -    144        6       -        -    150
C. Equipment
Offrce Equipment /b                           unit                                                                                        40        -                      40
Communication Equipment Ic                    unit                                                                                         4                                4
Audiovisual Equipment /d                      unit                                                                                         13                              13
Agro-Meteorological Equipment                 unit          -         5          -         -          *          5    10,000              50        -       -        -     50
Agricuitural Equipment                        unit                                                                                         6                -               6
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                                    -    113        -                      113
D. Establishment of Field Trials /e
FieldTrialEstabishment                       unit         70        38          -         -          -        108     3,000     210     114        -       -       -    324
Budwood Garden                                unit          -         5         5          -          -         10     2,000       -      10       10       -       -      20
Subtotal Establishment of Field Trials                                                                                             210     124       10       -       -    344                   O
E. Field Trial Monitoring
Agricultural Inputs                           LS                                                                                  21      21       15      15       8      80
Soil & Leaf Analysis                          LS                                                                                  19       4       4        4       4      35
Subtotal Field Trial Monitoring                                                                                                     40      25       19      19      12     115
F. Training
PhD                                           unit          -         1          1         1         1          4    25,000        -      25      25       25      25     100
Masters Courses                               unit          -         1          1         1         -           3    25,000       -      25      25       25       -      75
Technical Courses                             unit          -        12         12         6          -         30     2,000       -      24       24      12       -      60
DomesticTraining                              unit         24        24        24         24        24         120       600      14      14       14      14      14      72
Subtotal Training                                                                                                                   14      88      88       76      39     307
G. Technical Assistance
RubberResearchSpecialistlf                  month          12        12         12        12        12         60                  -        -       -       -       -       -
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                               274     494      123      95      51   1,039
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Training Allowances                          LS                                                                                  34      34      34       34      34     172
B. Accomodatron /g                             unit                                                                                 36      36      36      36       36     180
C. Travel Allowances                            unit                                                                                23      23      23       23      23     116
D. Office Operating Expenses                    unit                                                                                19      19       19      19      19      96
E. 0 & M Vehicles & Equipment                   unit                                                                                10      25      25       25      25     108
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                122     137      137     137     137     672             p
Total                                                                                                                                 397     632     261     233      189   1,711
(D D
ba replaces sedan                                                                                                                                                                             0  H
\b incl. 6 computers & printers, software, 2 photocopier, air condiioners
\c ind. 2 faxes
\d ind. documentation
\e ind. land preparation, planting material, inputs & planting
V to be financed by CIRAD
\g for grant funded senior intemational research specialist



Royal Govemrnment of Cambodia
Agrcultural Productivity Improvement Project
Table 21. Agricultural Stabstcs System Establishment
Detailed Costs
(US 5)
Quantles                                                      Base Cost ('00)
Unit      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      Total   Unit Cost  1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Vehicles Ia
Double cabin pick-up                               unit            2         -         -         -         -        2    20,000      40        -       -      -       -      40
Motorcydes                                         unit            7         5         5        5         5        27      1.500     1 1      8       8       8       8      41
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                                                                      51       8       8       8       8      81
B. Equipment
Computer equipment                                 LS                                                                                50      38      43       2       2     135
Communicabons equipment                            LS                                                                                 2       5       5       -       -      12
Office equipment lb                                LS                                                                                25       3       4       -       -      32
Field equipment                                    LS                                                                                15       2       3       -       -      20
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                                     92      48      55       2       2     199
C. Overseas Training
1. Short Term Fellowships
Data Processing / Database Management           month            -         3        6          -         -        9      3,670       -     11      22       -       -      33
Agnicultural SampleSurveys                      month            -         -         3        3                   6      6,000       -       -     16      18       -      36
Statisticat Operabons & Procedures              month            -         6         6         -         -       12      5,000       -     30      30       -       -      60
Subtotal Short Term Fellowships                                                                                                        -     41      70      18       -    129
2. StudyTours                                   twoweeks           5         -         -         -         -        5      6,000     30        -       -      -       -      30
Subtotal Overseas Training                                                                                                             30      41      70      15       -    159
0. Training
1. Field work
Crop Sample Surveys                              LS                                                                                16      16      16      16      16      78
Livestock Sample Surveys                         LS                                                                                 8       8       8       8       8      39
Subtotal Field work                                                                                                                  23      23      23      23      23     117                       ut
E. Local Training
1. Group Training
PC Systems Set-Up                                unit           20         -       20          -         -       40       200       4       -       4       -       -       8
Pilot Surveys & Enumerabon ic                    LS                                                                                 8       8       -       -       -      16
Crop Cutting                                     LS                                                                                12       -       -       -       -      12
Reporting & Assessment                           LS                                                                                 -      12       -       -       -      12
Subtotal Group Training                                                                                                              24      20       4               -      48
2. Workshops
User producer seminar                            LS                                                                                 6       -       -       -       -       6
Data Dissemination                               LS                                                                                 -       -       4       4       4      12
Others /d                                        LS                                                                                 2       2       2       2               8
Subtotal Workshops                                                                                                                    8       2       6       6       4      26
Subtotal Local Training                                                                                                                32      22      10       6       4      74
F. Technical Asslstance
AgrkdItral Stabstican                             month            6        12        12        6                  36    15.000      90     180    180       90             540
Shot tenn spedalists                              month                      1        2         2                   5                        30      30      15              75
Total Investment Coats                                                                                                                  318    352    376    147         37   1,244
II. Recurent Costs
A. Training Allowances
Stastica Field vVrk                                LS                                                                                28      77    137    113        77    432
Training Allowances                                LS                                                                                19      26      26      26      26     123
Travel Allowances                                  LS                                                                                 6       6       7       5       3      27
Subtotal Traini9 Allowances                                                                                                            53    109    170    144    106    582
B. ineremental Operaing Expenses
OfticeOperabng Expenses                            LS                                                                                10      10      10      10      10     50
VehidesO&Mle                                       unit            2        2         2         2         2        10     3,500       7       7       7       7       7     35                     p 3
Motorcydes O&M                                     unit            7        12       15        18        18        70       350       2       4       5       6      6      25                     k4   3
Equipment O&M                                      LS                                                                                 1       1       1       1       1      5                     M   (D
Subtotal incremental Operting Expenses                                                                                                 20      22      23      24     24     115                     N  X
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                    73     131     193    168    130    697             t-  F
Total                                                                                                                                   436    453    539    300    212   1941                         o
la Refer Appexnx C. page 55 for vehide disposition                                                                                                                                                      N 
vb inrdudes high capdty copier
vc Thn weeks (1 week training. 2 weeks enumeration) 80 fied staff
vd Group training crs pmvided by consutants
be Provtiort for 30.000 kltomes per year, spare parts, maintenance, etc



Royal Government of Cambodia
Agricultural Productivity improvement Project
Table 22. Agricultural Policy & Planning Capacity Building /a
Detailed Costs
(USS$)
Quantities                                                          Base Cost ('000)
Unit    1997       1998       1999       2000       2001       Total    Unit Cost   1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civi Works
Building /b                                      LS            1                                                     1   200,000       200        -        -       -              200
B. Vehicle
Double cabin pick-up                            unit           2          ----2                                            20,000       40        -        -       --              40
Motorcycles                                      unit          3          -                     --3                          1,500o      5        -        -                -        5
Subtotal Vehicle                                                                                                                          45        --                --              45
C. Equipment
Computer (2), printer (1) & software             set           1          -                                                 11,000     1I I                                         1 1
Photocopier                                     unit           1          ----1                                             3,000        3        -        -                         3
Communication Equipment /c                      unit                                                                                     -       1 0       -       --               i
Audio-visual aids                                unit                                                                                    -        3        --               -3
Subtotai Equipment                                                                                                                        14       13        -        --              27
D. Technicai Assistance
Agricultural Policy Planner /d                 month           6         12          6         2          2         28      15,000      90      180      90       30       30      420 
E. Studies                                                                                                                                                                                   O
Specialist Trainers /e                         month           -          1          1         1          1          4     15,000        -       1 5     1 5      1 5      1 5     60      0
Legal Services /f                                LS            1          1         1          1          1          5     10,000       1 0      1 0     1 0      1 0      1 0     50 
Subtotal Studies                                                                                                                          1 0      25       25      25       25      110
Totai Investment Costs                                                                                                                     359      218      115       55      55      802
II. Recurrent Costs
A, Office Operating Expenses /g                    LS            1          1          1          1          1          5      1,200       1        1        1       1        1        6
B. Vehicle O&M /h                                  unit          2          2          2          2         2         10       2,000       4        4       4        4        4       20
C. Motorcycle O&M                                  unit          7         12         1 7       22         27         85        350        2        4        6       8        9       30
D. Training Allowances! fI S                                                                                                              1 0      10       1 5     1 5      1 5     65
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                       18       19       26      28       30      121
Total                                                                                                                                       376     237      141       83       85     922
\a With the emphasis on training of Planning & Intemnational Cooperation staff
\b including power supply, a/c, plumbing and furniture
\c includes fax, mobile telephone, etc
\d Responsible for development of policy planning system & for coordination of training, documentation and data system, etc.
\e In Economics, Planning, Policy Analysis, Project Preparation & Appraisal, as required.
\f Provision for legal services to be used as may be needed.(DD
tg $1 00 /month to cover office supplies I consumables
\h Asue 15.000 km/fyear                                                                                                                                                                       N
ti At full development, - $5/day X 2 days/veek X 30 staff                                                                                                                                     o



Royal Govemment of Cambodia
Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Table 23. Human Resource Development & Management
Detailed Costs
(US S)
Quantities                                                   Base Cost ('000)
Unit        1997      1998      1999     2000      2001     Total   Unit Cost  1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. HRD Group Establishment
1. Civil Works
Building Rehabilitiation                                    LS                                                                                150       -       -        -             150
2. Training
ShortTechnicalCoursesAbroad                                unit              -         9        12        9        -        30      3.500       -      32      42      32        -    105
HRD Senior workshops                                       unit             2          2         2        2        2        10      2,250       5       5       5       5       5      23
Regional study tours /a                                 person/week         10        10        10        -        -        30      2,140      21      21      21       -        -     64
National WD consultants /b                                month              1         1         1        1        1         5      1,000       1       1       1       1       1       5
Subtotal Training                                                                                                                                27      58      09      37       6      197
3. Equipment
a. Office equipment
Computer (4) & printer /c                                set               2         -         -        -        -         2    21,000      42        -       -       -        -     42
Oflicefumiture                                           set              2                    -                           2      8,000      16       -       -                      16
Photocopier /d                                           unit              -         -         2        -        -         2      3,000       -       -       6       -       -       6
Telephone /e                                             unit             6          -         -        -        -         6      1,000      6        -       -       -       -       6
Subtotal Office equipment                                                                                                                      64       -       6       -        -     70
b. Audio-visual equipment & materials
Overhead projector & screen                              set               1         -         -        -        -         1      1,250       1       -       -       -       -       1
Slide projector                                          unit              1         -         -        -        -         1      1,000      1        -       -       -       -       1
White board                                              unit              1         -         -        -                  1       500        1       -       -       -       -       1        H
Mabrials / consumables                                   LS                1         1         1        1        1         5      1,000      1        1       1       1       1       5
Subtotal Audio-visual equipment & materials                                                                                                    4        1       1       1       1       8
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                                              68        1       7       1       1      78
4. Double cabin pick-up                                      unit              2         -         -        -        -         2    20,000      40        -       -       -       -      40
Subtotal HRD Group Establishment                                                                                                                 285       59      76      38       7     464
B. Training Needs Assessment
1. TNA Matedals                                              LS               3         3                                      6      3,000      9       9        -       -       -      18
2. TNA Training                                               LS                                                                                  -      10      10       -       -      20
Subtotal Training Needs Assessment                                                                                                                 9       19      10       -       -      38
C. Job Descriptions I Competency
1. Workshops                                                 LS               1          2         -        -        -         3    10,000      10      20        -       -       -      30
0. Improving Training Quality
1. Shorttemnconsuttants N                                    unit              -         -         6        -        -         6    15,000        -       -      90       -       -      90
2. Training                                                   LS               -         -         1        -        -         1    25,000        -       -      25       -       -      25
Subtotal Improving Training Quality                                                                                                                               115                     115
E. MAFF Upgrading Training
1. Training MAFF
Short Courses                                              LS                                                                                 20      30      50       50      40     190
Common Training /g                                         LS                                                                                 30      57      53       37      37     214
Language Training                                          LS                                                                                 15      15       15      15      15      75         >
Subtotal raining MAFF                                                                                                                           65      102     118     102      92     479      p   1
F. Agricultural College Support                                                                                                                                                                   (D X
1. Technical Assistance
Senior Adviser                                            month            12         6          3                          21    15,000     180      90      45        -       -    315       w 
Short term Specialists                                     LS                                                                                 25      25       10       -       -      60
Subtotal echnical Assistance                                                                                                                   205     115       55       -       -    3
2. Institutional Studies                                      LS             10         10        10                          30      1,000     10       10      10                      30
3. Double cabin pick-upf/h                                   unit             4          -         -        -        -         4    20,000      80        -       -       -              80      _
Subtotal Agricultural College Support                                                                                                            295      125     65        -       -    485
Total lnvestment Costs                                                                                                                             664      325     384     140      99   1,611



Quantities                                                     Base Cost COOG)
Unit        1997       1996      1999      2000      2001     Total   Unit Cost  1997    1995    1999    2000    2001    Total
I1 Recurrent Costs
A. HRD Group Establishment
1. Travel & subsistence allowances                              LS               1          1          1        1         1         5      8,000       8       8        8       8        8      40
2. Vehide O&M                                                   unit              2         2          2        2         2        10      1,000       2       2        2       2        2      10
3. Consumables                                                  LS              0.5         1          1        1         1       4.5      3,000       2       3        3       3        3      14
4. Trvining Aiowances A                                        month              1         1          1        1         1         5       200        0       0        0       0        0       1
Subtotal HRD Group Establishment                                                                                                                        12       13      13       13      13      65
B. Training Needs Assessment
1. Travel & subsistence allowances                              LS                -         1         1         -         -         2      6,000       -       6        6        -       -      12
2. Consumables                                                  LS                -         1          1        -         -         2      7,500       -       8        8        -       -      15
Subtotal Training Needs Assessment                                                                                                                       -       14      14        -       -      27
C. J.ib Descriptions I Competency
1. Travel & subsistence allowances                              LS                -         -         1         1                   2      5,000       -        -       5       5        -      10
2. Consumables                                                  LS                -         -          1        1         -         2      6,000       -        -       8       6               12
Subtotal Job Descriptons / Competency                                                                                                                    -        -      11       11       -      22
D. Improving Training Quality
1. Transport (trainers)                                         LS                -         -         1         -         -         1      5,000       -        -       5        -       -       5
2. Consumables                                                  LS                -         -          1         -        -         1      2,000       -        -       2        -       -       2
Subtotal Improving Training Quality                                                                                                                      -        -       7                        7
E. Agricultural Collge Support
1. Consumables                                                  LS               1          1         1                             3      1.000       1       1        1                        3
2. Vehide O&M j                                                 unit             4          4         4         -         -        12      1,000       4       4        4        -       -      12
Subtotal Agricultural College Support                                                                                                                    5       5        5                       15
Total Recurmnt Costs                                                                                                                                      17       32      50      24       13     138         I
Total                                                                                                                                                    680      357     434      164     112    1,747       CT
\a One week study tour for ten senior staff
tb For gender sensitization training, and monitoring of women's participation in training
bc one computer for kpg. chan college
\d one copier for kpg. dhan college
\e three telephones for kpg. chan college
\f ToT Specialists (2)
\g induding language training and computer skills (basic, advanced, word processing, database) as well as training materials
\h two pick-ups for Kompong Cham
\i staff allowance for training advisor counterpart
i including O&M for Kompong Cham
(DI 
0
th



Royal Govemment of Cambodia
Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Table 24. Support to Provincial Departments of Agriculture /a
Detailed Costs
(US $)
Quantities                                                        Base Cost ('000)
Unit      1997      1998      1999       2000       2001      Total    Unit Cost   1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works /b                                   LS             -         S           -         -                    5     10,000        -      50        -        -       -      50
B. Office Equipment/c                            prov.dept                   5          -          -          -         5    10,000         -      50        -       -        -      50
C. Field Programme-Related Training /d           prov.dept         -         5          5          5         5         20      2,000        -      10       10      10       10      40
D. Workshops /e                                  workshop          -        20         20         20        20         80        250        -       5        5       5        5      20
E. Trials & Demonstrations                       prov.dept         -         5          -          -          -         5      3,000        -      15        -        -       -      15
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                                        -     130       1 5     15       15      175
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Field Programme Operating Expenses
Vehicle O&M                                    prov dept         -         4          8         12        12         36      3,500        -      14      28       42       42     126
Field staff allowances /f                      prov.dept         -         5          5          5         5         20      4,000        -      20      20       20      20       80
Total                                                                                                                                         -      164      63       77      77      381
\a 5 provinces: Khompong Thom, Kratie, Khompong Cham, Prey Veng & Svey Rieng
\b Refurbishing office buildings, garages & stores
\c includes communicabons equipment (fax, phone)
\d Training of staff (province, district & commune levels) and farmers (farmer training days, demonstrations, extension / training materials)
\e For provincial planning & statistics collection - 8 days / year / province X 25 participants X $10 (all inclusive cost).
V 10 staff X 100 days/year field work X $4 allowance / day in each province
Fa>
(D(D
x
U H
0
K)
Fh



Royal Govemment of Cambodia
Agricultural Productvity Improvement Project
Table 25. Project Management Unit
Detailed Costs
(US $)
Quanttes                                                         Base Cost ('000)
Unit        1997      1998      1999       2000      2001      Total    Unit Cost  1997    1998    1999    2000    2001   Total
I Investment Costs
A. Vehies
Double cabin pick-ups                                  unit             2          -         -         -          -         2    20,000       40        -       -       -       -      40
Automobiles                                            unit             2          -         -          -         -          2    16,000      32        -       -       -              32
Subtotal Vehies                                                                                                                                 72        -       -       -       -      72
B. Equipment
Office Equipment /a                                    LS                                                                                     10      40        -       -              50
Electrical Equipment lb                                LS                                                                                     40        -       -       -       -      40
Communtcation Equipment c                              LS                                                                                      -      10        -       -       -      10
Subtobtl Equipment                                                                                                                              50      50        -       -       -    100
C. Coordination I Training Id
Management meebings le                               meetng            12        12         12        12        12         60        150       2       2       2        2       2       9
Workshops 1                                         workshop            2         4          4         4         4          18     2,250       5       9       9        9       9      41
Overseas tudy tours                                person/week          -         2          2         2         2          8      2,140       -       4       4       4        4      17
Subtotal Coordination I Training                                                                                                                 6      15       15      15      15      67
D. Technical Assslance
SeniorProjectManagement&PolicyAdviser                 month             6        12          6         2         2         28    15,000       90     180      90      30       30     420
HRD-HRM Adviser                                       month             6        12         12         6          -        36    15,000       90     180     180      90        -    540
Procurement Specalist                                 month             6        12          6         2         2         28    15.000       90    10       90      30       30     420
Civil Works Supervision /g                             LS                                                                                     50      50      40       15      15     170
Financial & Administrave Spedalist                    month             6        12          6         2         2         28    15,000       90     180      90      30       30     420
Training Management Specialist                        month             6        12          -         -          -         18    15,000      90     180        -       -       -    270
ShortTefmConsultants                                   unit             -         8          -         -          -         8    15,000        -    120         -       -       -    120
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                                                                  500   1,070     490      195     105   2,360
E. Studies
Monitoring Specialist                                  unit             2         2          2         2         2         10    15,000       30      30      30      30      30      150
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                                           658   1,165     535      240     150   2,749
11. Recurrent Coats
A. PMU stff
Chief                                                month             12        12         12        12        12         60       250        3       3       3       3        3      15
DeputyChief/ProjectCoordinator                       month             12        12         12        12        12         60       250        3       3       3       3        3      15
Procurementofficer                                   month             12        12         12        12        12         60        175       2       2       2       2       2       11
Planning/ budget officer                             month             12        12         12        12        12         60        175       2       2       2       2       2       11
Accounts officer                                      month            12        12         12        12        12         60        175       2       2       2       2        2      11
Projectmonitonngoflcer                               month             12        12         12        12        12         60        175       2       2       2       2       2       11
Accounting assistant                                  month            12        12         12        12        12         60        125       2       2       2       2        2       8
Office technology assistant                          month             12        12         12        12        12         60        125       2       2       2       2       2        8
Administrabive assistant                              month            12        12         12        12        12         60        125       2       2       2       2       2        8
Monitoring assistant                                 month             24        24        24         24        24        120        125       3       3       3       3       3       15
Clerks/secretaries                                   month             46        48        48         48        48        240        80        4       4       4       4       4       19
Drivers                                              month             24        24        24         24        24        120        80        2       2       2       2       2       10
Subtotal PMU staff                                                                                                                              28      28      28      28      28      138
B. Training Allowances ih                                LS                                                                                      6      10      10      10      10      44
C- Office Operating Expenses A                           LS                                                                                      2       2       2       2       2       10
D. O&MVehides!j                                          unit             4         4         4          4         4         20      3,500      14      14      14      14       14      70
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                             50      53      53      53       53     263
Total                                                                                                                                            708   1,218      588     293     203   3,011                   I'd
(DIP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D(
\a indudes 4 computers & prnters, 2 photocopiers, etc                                                                                                                                                           (
\b generator and transformer for PMU building, with connections to Planning and Personnel buildings                                                                                                             t1
\c includes fax, mobile telephone, etc                                                                                                                                                                          0'
vd Senior management training insluded in HRD / HRM sub-component                                                                                                                                               O
Is Monthly meetings for 15 participants cost to cover preparabon of documents, translaton, entertainment                                                                                                        eh
\f Three day workshop for about 25 participants X $30 all inclusive cost per person.
\g 5% of total expenditure on project civil works
\h Senior management - $10/day X 50 days/month, rsing to 80 days/month
\i Office equipment O&M + $100 per month for suppies & matenals
N Unit cost allows for up to 30,000 kfV year + 3 oil changes + replacement of tyres,etc



Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Table Financing Plan by Expenditure Category
(US $ '000)
Local
Government       IDA (ITF)         IFAD             Total             For.   (Excl.  Duties &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Anmount   %    Amount   %              Exch.  Taxes)  Taxes
Civil Works                                        968    20.0    3,462    71.5    409      8.5   4,838    13.8   3,600   1,239
Vehicles \a                                          -       -    2,761    91.5    257      8.5   3,018      8.6   2,557    461
Equipment                                          485    10.0   4,009    82.6    357       7.4   4,852    13.8   3,858       993
Agricultural & Laboratory Materials \b             525    30.0      746    42.6    478    27.4    1,749      5.0    1,383    366
Overseas Training                                    -       -      764    65.0    135    15.0       899     2.6      899       -
Consultant Services & Studies                        -       -    7,656    88.1   1,034    11.9   8,690    24.8    8,690        -
Local Training & Allowances                          -       -    5,334    80.7   1,279    19.3   6,613    18.8       988   5,625
Incremental Operating Expenses                   1,379    31.0    2,269    51.0    799    18.0   4,447    12.7   3,304    634          509
Total                                               3,356     9.6   27,002    76.9   4,747    13.5  35,106   100.0  25,278   9,318       509
a incl. fishery patrol boats
\b For experimentation, field trials and demonstrations
't1>
(nrD
(D XD
x
ti'
0
-J



- 66 -                               Annex 2
Page 1 of 12
PERFORMANCE AND IMPACT INDICATORS
1.    These measure the extent to which the project is likely to achieve the longer-term
development impact that is foreseen at appraisal. They indicate whether the project is
likely to have positive or negative development impact, and whether its benefits will
exceed its costs. APIP's impact is expected in the medium to long term and indicators of
development impact are therefore for the most part inappropriate within the proposed
seven year investment period. For the project's field sub-components, however, specific
indicators have been chosen to measure expected impact of the seed program, the IPM
program, basic animal health services, small-scale agricultural hydraulics, and freshwater
fish "seed" (see Table 1).
Table 1: Development Impact indicators by field-component
Objective        Indicator                      Unit   Base   Mid-   ICR       Full
term           Impact
Recommended      Quantity  of foundation  seed    tons      0    400      700      700
seed availability   produced                      tons      0   7500   15000    15000
Quantity  of  extension  seed
multiplied
IPM              Trained farmers                   no.      0   8000   16000    30000
IPM adoption rates                %              80      80        80
Animal health    mortality rates                    %
- adult buffalo                         0.1            0.07      0.05
- adult cattle                          0.08           0.06      0.04
- adult pigs                             0.3            0.2       0.1
- breeding poultry                      0.3             0.2       0.1
- chickens                               0.6            0.4       0.2
Irrigation strategy  Small-scale scheme completion  No.     0      25      50       75
Adequacy of O&M                   %
Freshwater  fish  Production of fry               000s   2000            5000    10000
"seed"           Production of fingerlings        000s    850            2000     3000
availability                I_I                                       I _
2.    For the capacity building and research-oriented components, indicators are
required to gauge the project's implementation performance. The objective of the project
as a whole is the development of capacity within MAFF to fulfil its role and
responsibilities, inter alia, to design and implement technically sound and economically
rational sub-sector programs independently and/or in equal partnership with NGOs and
1Os. This is an especially difficult characteristic to measure objectively. The approach
taken in APIP is to monitor the attainment of main outputs by component, their quantity,
quality and timeliness and to use this information as implementation progress/process
indicators (see Table 2). Output targets would be specified in detail (attainment
percentages, dates, quantities, qualifiers) for each component (and where appropriate,
sub-component) in the first three months of project effectiveness by each technical



- 67 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 12
department and agreed with PMU and the TA monitoring specialist. These would be
entered in the third column of Table 2 and thus become measurable indicators of project
progress, or milestones.
Table 2. Implementation Performance Indicators by Component
Component &          Main Outputs                                         Indicators       of
Sub-component                                                             Attainment
Percent,     Date,
Quantities
Capacity Building    Physical delivery
Acquisition of skills
No.of full-time counterparts in PMU & working on
project components,
Location/task of project trained staff
Communications systems/linkages between technical
depts, & all agricultural sector stakeholders
Development plans/ programs for the different sub-
sectors
Soil        Fertility  Field trials and demonstrations
Management &         Results
Farming    Systems  Database
Crop Diversification   Tested agronomic recommendations
Technology transfer effort
Seed Multiplication    National Seed Strategy
Seed laboratory
Foundation seed
Trained multiplication farmers
Multiplied extension seed
Plant Protection     Laboratory
Pest and disease database
Pest control recommendations
Plant protection legislation
Livestock/Animal     Basic animal health service in 4 pilot provinces
Health          and  800 privatised registered village vets
Production           Animal production recommendations
National vaccine production system
Agricultural         50 small-scale irrigation schemes
I   Performance level would be indicated by three figures: percentage (/O), date and quality on a scale of
I to 10.
2   These will apply to all implementing departments: DoA, DAHP, GDIMH, DoF, DGPH, DPSIC and
HRD/Personnel.
3 Research stations and laboratories constructed and operational, progress reports, laboratory
throughput, number and location of trials and demonstrations by season, completed staff training



- 68 -
68 -                     ~~~~~~AWnnex 2
Page 3 of 12
Component &         Main Outputs                                      Indicators      of
Sub-component                                                         Attainment
Percent,    Date,
Quantities
Hydraulics          Scheme database
Economic & technical evaluation
Feasibility study of Prek Tatam scheme
Water law/rights drafted
Component &  Sub-  Main Outputs                                       Indicators     of
component                                                             Attainment,
Percent,    Date,
Quality
Fisheries           Production of fingerlings
Production of fry
Fisheries legislation revised
Legislation enforced
Freshwater fisheries database
Recommendations - wild capture
- aquaculture               l
Smallholder Rubber  Trials and demonstrations
Research            Results
Database
Recommendations
Agricultural        Crop, livestock &  agricultural price data collected,
Statistics          processed, tabulated, analysed
Database operational & available to users
Regular series of publications produced
Workshops on data use, analysis & interpretation,
Agricultural  Policy  Database covering all provincial, national, NGO, IO and
and Planning        bi-lateral projects & programs in sector,
Policies developed & prioritised,
Foreign & local investment criteria/guidelines
Performance criteria for evaluation
MAFF annual & five year plans                                       l
Human    Resource  HRD/HRM system
Development   and  Database of jobs & job descriptions
Management          Training needs assessment (TNA)
Training programs
Special studies to determine HRD impact
Provincial          Annual workplan
Departments     of Database of all on-going and proposed programs
Agriculture         Field program  (trial and demonstration plots, seed
multiplication schemes, quantity of seed multiplied and
sold, farmer training and field days, etc.)
Staff participation in training & work-programs of APIP-
supported technical departments



69-                             Annex 2
Page 4 of 12
IMPLEMENTATION PERFORMANCE INDICATORS BY COMPONENT
Agronomy
3.    DoA Capacity Building and Technical Co-ordination: Main output: DoA able to
plan and implement effective adaptive/applied research and development programs. (DoA
will not itself undertake research, it will focus on those activities that are required to
develop agronomic recommendations).
4.    Main indicators: DoA management and co-ordination of its five sub-components
is efficient. Resource allocations to sub-programs including research is in line with
agreed policy statements.
5.    Progress/process indicators:
(a)   The quality and frequency of contact/communication between DoA,
research and extension stakeholders 4;
(b)   stakeholders satisfaction with research system/process; research resource
allocations adjusted; and
(c)   institutional/management arrangements adjusted.
Soil Fertility Management And Farming Systems/Crop Diversification
6.    Main outputs: Results of field trials and demonstrations recorded in database.
Tested agronomic recommendations being fed into technology transfer system using both
formal and informal channels.
7.    Main impact indicator: Adoption rates of farmers participating in trials and
demonstrations will indicate whether the recommended technology is economically
useful and socially acceptable.
8.    Progress/process indicators:
(a)   progress reports on number of trials/demonstrations; number and
characteristics of participating farmers;
(b)   with and without project yields per unit of land and labour;
(c)   farmer assessments/feedback; regular and effective contact with new
technology clients and end users;
Other departments in MAFF (DATEE, PDAs); other Ministries (MRD, MOE); NGOs, lOs, private
sector companies, associations, input suppliers, rural enterprises and farmers.



- 70 -
70 -                   ~~~~~~Annex 2
Page 5 of 12
(d)   use of participatory systems for technology testing; technology tested in
farmers fields (including woman-managed/owned fields) in the main agro-
ecological zones, trial results and farmer assessments analysed and
social/economic/cultural as well as technical constraints identified; and
(e)   number of specific technical recommendations disseminated.
Seed Multiplication Programme
9.    Main outpult: National Seed Strategy; effective multiplication system  for
recommended rice varieties;
10.   Main indicators: Strategy document endorsed by RGC, quantity of foundation
seed produced, processed and sold annually; quantity of extension seed multiplied under
supervision and processed.
11.   Mid-project targets/indicators:
(a)   Seed stations produce 300 tons of foundation rice seed in 1998 and 500
tons in 1999;
(b)   Seed growers (multipliers) produce 7,500 tons of extension seed in 1999;
(c)   Foundation seed is sold and revenue is made available for the operation of
the seed farms though a revolving fund;
(d)   Annual report on quantity of foundation seed of improved varieties of rice
produced by each seed station, costs of production, sales revenue, end
clients;
(e)   draft  national  seed  strategy  document,  review   arrangements,
implementation   arrangements,  foundation  seed  cost  recovery
arrangements; and
(f)   Seed and Plant Genetic resources laboratory operational.
12.   Project Targets/Indicators:
(a)   seed stations produce 700 tons of foundation seed per annum, being sold at
a premium of Riel 200/kg (Riel 700/kg at 1996 prices);
(b)   outgrowers produce 15,000 tons of extension seed, which is processed,
labelled and marketed though the seed farms. (This is about 10% of
Cambodia's rice seed requirement.);
(c)   the revolving fund contributes about $200,000 annually to the operation of
the seed farms; and



-71 -                              Annex 2
Page 6 of 12
(d)   National Seed Strategy Document agreed and adhered to.
Plant Protection Service Establishment:
13.   Main outputs: Cambodia-specific pest and disease database; cost-effective pest
control recommendations, plant protection service and legislation in place.
14.   Main indicators: extent and quality of database; number of recommendations;
adoption rates amongst farmers participating in field trials and demonstrations, legislation
approved.
15.   Progress/process indicators:
(a)   staff ability to identify pests;
(b)   completion of plant protection laboratory, extent of laboratory use, number
of analyses;
(c)   pest control recommendations formulated, tested, disseminated; and
(d)   plant protection legislation, drafted, reviewed, passed.
Integrated Pest Management (IPM):
16.   Main oupu: 16,000 farmers trained in IPM by end of PY5; trained IPM trainers.
17.   Main impact indicator: IPM adoption rates of FFS trained farmers.
18.   Progress/process indicators:
(a)   annual number of completed Farmer Field Schools (FFSs) and number of
participants (target is 16,000 farmers by end of PY5); farmer evaluations;
(b)   percentage of trained farmers continuing to use IPM techniques;
(c)   measurably reduced pesticide use by trained farmers; and
(d)   evidence of demand for IPM  field schools from other clients (PASs,
NGOs, area development projects in other provinces, farmer associations).
Livestock
19.   Main outpu: basic animal health service provided in four pilot provinces by 800
privatised registered village vets; animal production recommendations; sustainable



-72 -                            Annex 2
Page 7 of 12
national vaccine production system (either privatised or funded adequately by
government); strengthened department of Animal Health and Production (DAHP).
20.   Main impact indicator: measurably reduction in animal mortality rates in the four
targeted provinces.
21.   Progress/ process indicators:
(a)   number of clients of project-trained village vets;
(b)   number of village vets operating full-time at the end of each year;
(c)   supply/ availability  of DAHP-recommended  livestock  drugs and
medicines in district pharmacies in project and non-project provinces;
(d)   sales (offtake) from cattle and buffalo herds and of pigs and poultry;
(e)   number of livestock loans from rural financial institutions operating in
project and non-project provinces; and
(f)   number, types and results of analyses being undertaken at provincial and
central diagnostic laboratories.
Agricultural Hydraulics
22.   Main outputa: Fifty (0,10,15,15,10) well-planned, designed and constructed small-
scale agricultural hydraulic schemes (SSAHSs) involving 136 structures in two pilot
provinces of Kompong Thom and Kratie; comprehensive SSAHS database; completed
economic and technical evaluation of small scale irrigation development; completed
feasibility study of Prek Tatam medium scale irrigation scheme; water law/rights drafted.
23.   Main impact indicators: rehabilitated SSAHS maintained and operated by village
community after one year, two years, three years, etc.
24.   Progress/process indicators:
(a)   number of completed irrigation structures which successfully retain and
release water as required, number of structures per village scheme;
(b)   agricultural and economic/financial performance data including irrigated
area, cropping intensity (proxy for hydraulic performance), production,
yields, success in collection of water charges, performance /cost recovery
of O&M (ratio of water charges due/collected to O&M expenses),
establishment of WJUA, user participation in irrigation management; and



-73-                             Annex 2
Page 8 of 12
(c)   mini cost benefit analyses of small-scale agricultural hydraulics schemes,
SSAH investment criteria established (reflecting an understanding of
conditions under which it is economically justified).
25.   Problem Indicators
(a)   problems with implementation, weak user participation, lack of user
commitment to scheme management, O&M, poor returns to farmers, water
charges too low for good system management.
26.   Medium Scale:
(a)   completed comprehensive technical and socio-economic feasibility study
of medium-scale irrigation development at Prek Tatam (end PY2)
addressing cost recovery, and O&M;
(b)   decision taken as to whether or not to go ahead to construction or to
undertake a feasibility study/evaluation of an alternative medium-scale
scheme (mid PY3);
(c)   either contract awarded for Construction  Phase (end  PY3) and
construction completed (end PY5); or
(d)   new feasibility study completed (end PY4).
Fisheries
27.   Development impact is expected in the medium to long term in sustainable
increased artisanal, and family production from inland capture fisheries and aquaculture.
APIP would contribute to this through the achievement of project outputs in the
following three areas:
(a)   fisheries conservation and management including stock assessment,
prevention of over-exploitation, restocking, maintenance of catch per unit
of effort (CPUE), and rehabilitation of fish breeding/nursery/feeding
habitats;
(b)   fishery seed supply (fry and fingerlings); and
(c)   institutional strengthening of Department of Fisheries (DOF).
28.   Main ouputs: production of fingerlings increased from 850,000 in 1995 to about
2 million by 2003; production of fry increased from 2 to about 5 million over the same
period; fisheries legislation revised and enforced through strengthened monitoring,
control and surveillance functions of DOF; freshwater fisheries database.



- 74 -
Annex 2
Page 9 of 12
29.   Main impact indicators: quantity and value of total annual freshwater catch from
wild capture and aquaculture.
30.   Progress /process indicators: for conservation and management: the enhanced
collection and interpretation of fisheries statistics, the demarcation of the fish sanctuaries
in the Tonle Sap Lake and River, implementation of habitat improvement in the
sanctuaries, fishing regulations being enforced.
(a)   for fishery seed supply: fresh water research station and hatchery facility at
Chriang Chamres rehabilitated, proper management of the hatchery,
indigenous fish breeding, quantity and quality of annual fingerling and fry
production, MSc level graduates in fish breeding, nutrition and health
working at Research Station; and
(b)   for strengthened DOF: completed revision of present fisheries legislation,
new law promulgated and enforced, enhanced collection and interpretation
of fisheries statistics; improved data feeding into management and
conservation planning; trained motivated staff.
Smallholder Rubber Research
31.   The long-term goal of APIP's rubber research component is smallholder rubber
production contributing significantly and sustainably to rural incomes and to foreign
exchange earnings. Research results (main outputs) would provide key data necessary to
target resources to the sub-sector most efficiently and cost effectively. The research
would identify (i) the geographical areas (soils and climate) which are especially suitable,
and the strains (clones) that are likely to be the most productive given Cambodian agro-
ecological conditions; (ii) enterprise combinations (rubber and temporary inter-cropping,
rubber and permanent inter-cropping, rubber and livestock raising and/or fish-farming)
that would promote successful establishment of the young trees as well as generate an
adequate interim cash flow for the farmer. In addition, data would be gathered on existing
cultural practices and on farmers' responses to new technologies.
32.   Main research outputs: recommendations at to most suitable areas and plant types;
recommendations as to which farm enterprises to combine with rubber so as to optimise
agronomic as well as financial returns, especially during the establishment period; reports
containing analyses and evaluation of (i) current practices as regards production,
exploitation and collection of rubber, (iii) field demonstrations, (iii) farmers' responses/
reactions to new technologies/alternative enterprise mixes; from amongst the staff of
DGPH, trained managers and technicians able to design and implement on-farm rubber
research, to analyze results and to develop recommendations; an information bank on
smallholder rubber including both technical and socio-economic data such as suitable
soils, climate, plant types, farming practices at all stages of production (traditional and
new), farmers' responses, and research methodology.



-75-                              Annex 2
Page 10 of 12
33.   Main indicators: Report containing concrete recommendations, database.
Department Of International Cooperation, Planning & Statistics (DPSIC):
Agricultural Statistics:
34.   The sub-component would have established a strong organisational and
institutional base for agricultural statistics in MAFF with well defined collaborative
linkages to other institutions, active and effective Co-ordinating Committee, operational
communications system, and all equipment in place and operational.
35.   Main Outputs: collection systems for crop statistics, livestock statistics and
agricultural price statistics in place and regular flow of data established; data processed
and tabulated according to work programme; database operational and available to users;
regular series of publications produced; and series of workshops conducted on the use,
analysis and interpretation of the data.
36.   Main Indicator: reliable agricultural statistics.
Agricultural Policy and Planning
37.   Main Ouput: Thirty trained staff, the capacity to undertake logical policy analysis
and development planning.
38.   Main Indicator: Sector database, investment criteria.
39.   Progress/process indicators:
(a)   measurable increases in the language skills, analytical skills, economic
understanding and planning skills of DPSIC staff;
(b)   establishment and use of database recording all provincial, national, NGO,
10 and bi-lateral projects and programs in the sector set up;
(c)   policies developed for the sector;
(d)   foreign and local investment criteria/guidelines established for agricultural
projects and programs;
(e)   performance criteria for the evaluation of projects and programs; and
(f)    MAFF's annual and five year plans reflect MAFF/RGC policy, and are
clearly prioritised according to objective and specified criteria.



-76 -
Annex 2
Page 11 of 12
MAFF Strengthening
Human Resource Development (HRD): see main indicators above and develop further;
40.   Main Outputs: HRD/HRM system
41.   Main Indicator:
42.   Progress/process indicators:
(a)   an HRD/HRM system established and operating effectively within MAFF,
indicated by the completion of personnel registration, of a comprehensive
database of MAFF jobs and job descriptions, and of initial training needs
assessment (TNA), completion of project training programs, completion of
special studies to determine the impact of HRD programs on government
staff, systems established for TNA and training management, improved
management of training throughout MAFF;
(b)   sufficient numbers of competent senior staff are assigned as full-time
counterparts in the PMU and in each of the project components, staff
trained by the project are in jobs which use their skills and experience;
(c)   measurable increases in the language skills, analytical skills, technical
skills, and management skills of MAFF staff;
(d)   systems /fora established and institutionalised through regular meetings
for effective linkages, communication, sharing of information and the
development of a "culture of transparency and interdependence rather than
competition" between MAFF technical departments, and with provincial
agricultural services, other clients/partners, the media, the private sector
(link to ASM); and
(e)   clearly prioritised development plans/ programs for the different sub-
sectors that respond to farmers needs and wishes (constraints and
potentials); MAFF actively seeking resources/budget for program
implementation (both from within the country and from donors/ NGOs).
Provincial Agricultural Services (PAS):
43.   Indicators of improved provision of PAS include:
(a)   an annual plan for provincial agricultural devefopment, including training
program, field services program and, for information and co-ordination
purposes, a description of programmes that are outside the direct
jurisdiction of PDA (e.g.: private sector, NGOs, bi-lateral aid, etc.);



- 77 -                                Annex 2
Page 12 of 12
(b)   completed training of provincial and district staff,
(c)   field program indicators (trial and demonstration plots, seed multiplication
schemes, quantity of seed multiplied and sold, farmer training and field
days, etc.);
(d)   participation of senior staff (agronomy, hydrology, livestock, extension) in
workshops and work-programs with APIP-supported technical
departments; and
(e)   monthly and biannual reports from PMU and the senior TA assigned in
each technical department on quality and performance of counterpart staff
in project workplanning, budgeting, implementation, reporting and
trouble-shooting.



- 78 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 18
ECONOMIC AND RISK ANALYSIS
1.    With the exception of livestock health and production, APIP's components are not
designed to improve agricultural productivity directly, but rather to facilitate, accelerate and/or
remove constraints to increases in agricultural productivity of small farmers and fishermen in the
medium to long run. Project design reflects considered judgments of the means by which MAFF
can best support private entrepreneurial efforts in the agricultural sector, given the priorities of
RGC and the low level of agricultural productivity in Cambodia. The economic analysis
involved a detailed evaluation of the costs and benefits of each planned output, and of the risks
and assumptions inherent in the means-ends hierarchy. This iterative process which inter alia
involved close examination of alternative means of achieving the component objectives, has
resulted in components which are expected to contribute most critically and cost-effectively to
the project's development goal. Thus the loan funds would be used in ways which will maximize
the net present value to the country.
AGRONOMY
Overall Capacity Building in the Department of Agronomy (DoA) and Technical
Coordination
2.    Research management and applied research programs would typically have an
measurable impact on agricultural development 5-10 years downstream. That impact would
partially depend on effective extension and other services and sound policies. Capacity and
experience built though APIP's Agronomy component would provide major contributions to this,
without which goals for the sector are very unlikely to be achieved. As a result of the project,
DoA would
(a)   coordinate and target agricultural research on country's priorities;
(b)   identify potentials and constraints, and develop appropriate technical solutions;
(c)   test technical solutions on-farm;
(d)   provide technical recommendations/support to DATEE, Provincial Departments
of Agriculture (PDAs), and other agricultural stakeholders.
3.    The overall justification for medium to long term investment in these processes is the
overwhelming importance of the agricultural sector in the economy, and a recognition that new
technology, improved resource allocation, and investment in the sector are critical to future
growth.



- 79 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 18
Soil Fertility/Conservation Program:
4.     Maintenance of soil fertility is critical for the sustainability of agricultural productivity.
Farmers need to use scarce working capital and incremental labor so as to maximize profit. For
example, they should increase inorganic fertilizer application up until the marginal revenue
product per dollar spent is equal to the marginal cost, and undertake mulching and composting
up until the MRP of labor is equal to the opportunity cost of labor. Farmers need to be made
aware of the costs of alternative means of maintaining/ enhancing soil fertility (fallowing, crop
rotation, manuring, etc.). FAO/OSRO (Office for Special Relief Operations) has compiled a
database as to fertilizer use and response of the main varieties of rice in different agro-ecological
conditions and soil types in Cambodia   In addition, CIAP has completed about 30 very
controlled on-station trials. These fertilizer trials have generated a sizable body of information
indicating the situations in which it pays to apply mineral fertilizers. DoA (though APIP) would
further this important work by undertaking together with provincial agronomy and extension
personnel (link to PAS), an extensive farmer-managed on-farm trial and demonstration program
using a participatory approach. Feedback from farmers is considered central to the development
of economically sound inorganic fertilizer recommendations for low-land rainfed rice and to a
greater understanding of the constraints faced by farmers in the use of inputs like inorganic
fertilizer. This work will link in closely with the activities of the Farming Systems sub-
component.
5.     About three quarters of fertilizer used in the country is supplied through the private sector
and in the medium term, consumption can be expected to increase significantly, especially in
areas with high population densities and good water control. The market for fertilizer is thus
increasingly free of distortion.
Farming Systems and Crop Diversification Program
6.     The justification for this sub-component is based on the importance of the agricultural
sector, the need to develop MAFF's understanding of the constraints and conditions of
Cambodian farming systems; so as to develop technically appropriate, economically viable and
socially/culturally acceptable strategies and specific recommendations for improving and
sustaining productivity. Farming systems in Cambodia are overwhelmingly rice-based and so the
primary focus would be on these. In addition however, DoA would explore the potential for
future crop diversification in terms of spreading/reducing risks, sustaining the resource base,
making profits. The potential for cultivation of alternative food and industrial crops, particularly
tree crops, in the upland areas is good. Diversification would contribute to (a) improved human
The results of 1,500 on-farm fertiliser trials conducted by FAO/OSRO since 1992 indicate average yield increases
of I .7ton (range from 1 .2ton/ha to 2.9ton/ha) from a fertiliser application rate of 41-46-0 with a productivity index
of 14, cost/benefit ratio of 2.3 and risk index of 4.4%. However, for local varieties sown in areas without water
control, mineral fertilization in unlikely to be economic at medium to high doses and farmers are unlikely to take
the risks involved.



- 80 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 18
nutrition; (ii) environmental stability and sustainable farming systems; and (iii) greater diversity
in marketable crops for local consumption and export.
Seeds Program
7.    Although HYVs of rice suitable to the agro-ecological environments in Cambodia have
been/are being developed by CIAP 2 (this is a sunk cost), sufficient quantities of recommended
seed  are not available as there is no seed multiplication system. This is clearly a critical
constraint on agricultural productivity improvement in Cambodia. Quite apart from the growing
and so-far unmet demand for improved seed from NGOs, 1Os, and bilaterals, there is widespread
evidence that farmers themselves are willing to pay a premium for seed of improved varieties and
some go to considerable lengths to get hold of a supply. This sub-component is thus entirely
demand driven.
8.    A yield increase of 10% is attributed to the use of improved seeds alone, holding all other
factors constant. The seed sub-component is expected to give an economic rate of return (EIRR)
of 17% on the investment (see tables xx). This is based on an economic valuation of the benefits
of using extension seed for one year only; if the additional net incremental benefits are included
in the analysis (benefits resulting if the same area is planted with the next generation of grain
retained by the farmer), the EIRR rises to 38%. The benefits are thus expected to amply justify
the economic cost of the seed production program/sub-component. The indicative analysis takes
no account of the fact that planting rates per hectare may decline as better seed tends to have a
higher germination rate, that farmers are likely to plant improved varieties of grain retained as
seed for more than one additional year and on a larger area, and that the incremental net benefit
stream was extended over 15 years only. The EIRR is thus a conservative estimate of the
considerable economic advantage to the country of investment in a national seed strategy, in
foundation seed production and in public sector support for and quality control of private sector
seed multiplication by the private sector (including outgrowers, entrepreneurs, farmer
associations, agricultural projects, PAS, NGOs, etc.,).
9.    Institutional arrangements including options for cost recovery would need to be reviewed
as part of the process of establishing a national seed strategy. Ideally, all users/recipients without
exception would be required to pay for Foundation Seed (the first multiplication of breeder seed
produced on seed farms under strict control and supervision of the breeder). When government or
the ministry itself requires seed for specific development or emergency programs, these would be
duly purchased from the seed program by the agencies supporting the programs for which seed is
required or with regular budget allocation. The annual revenue (which, by the year 2000, would
be about US$ 200,000) would be made available through a revolving fund exclusively for the (i)
operation of the seed farms (the recurrent cost of foundation seed production are expected to be
about US$ 70,000 per annum); (ii) management and supervision of extension seed
2 Cambodia IRRI Australia Project
3 Seed recommendations would be provided as outputs of the Farming Systems programme.



- 81 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 18
multiplication; and (iii) collection, cleaning, drying, quality control, packaging, and marketing of
extension seed. The sustainability of the program and of the continued availability of quality rice
seed will depend on these revenues being available to cover the recurrent costs of the seed
program.
Plant Protection Service (i) Institution Establishment
10.   Whereas it is not possible to quantify the medium to long term benefits which are
expected to result from the establishment of a Plant Protection Service, the indications (inter alia
from the economic analysis of IPM) are that they are likely to contribute significantly to
agricultural productivity. Information on pests and pest control options would feed into wider
pest control recommendations which, if adopted, would increase yields, reduce crop losses (both
in-field and post-harvest) which are estimated to be in the region of 20%, ensure that farmers'
expenditure on pesticide is timely, appropriate and thus cost-effective, protect health and hence
labor productivity (days lost through pesticide poisoning), and reduce environmental damage.
11.   There is no capacity in Cambodia to identify and control pests, no quarantine
mechanisms and no legal framework for the control of plant/animal movements within and into
the country. The sub-component would train a small core of specialists, establish a modest plant
protection laboratory in Phnom Penh and develop a legal framework to ensure adequate plant
protection and agro-chemical regulation in Cambodia; and maintain a database on crop pest
problems 4. In summary, the foundation would be laid for Cambodia's Plant Protection Service.
12.   The justification for this sub-component is medium-long term. The objective is that cost-
effective, technically efficient pest control recommendations are transmitted through the
extension system and that seeds (see APIP's investment in seed sub-component) and other
planting materials would be protected from pests and diseases.
Plant Protection - (ii) Integrated Pest Management
13.   The misuse and overuse of chemicals to control agricultural pests has adverse effects on
farm budgets, human health and the environment. The widespread adoption of IPM would result
in:
(a)   reduced production costs, increased yields and improved profitability for farmers;
(b)   improved sustainability of intensified crop production;
(c)   reduced risk of acute and chronic pesticide poisoning (reduced medical
expenditure and increased labor productivity);
(d)   improved/maintained outputs from rice/fish cultivation.
This would result from field research designed to systematically identify major pests, diseases and weeds using a
participatory approach involving farmers, extension workers and through the IPM FFSs.



- 82 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 18
14.   Data is not available in Cambodia which could be used as a basis for calculating the
precise level of each of these benefits. There is clear evidence, however, for (a) 5. An illustrative
cost benefit analysis (CBA) of the sub-component shows that 16,000 FFS trained farmers
adopting IPM on an average of 0.5 ha and benefiting to the tune of $12/ha per season for 15
years would produce an economic internal rate of return (EIRR) on the investment of 9%. This
conservative picture reflects the fact that in Cambodia present levels of pesticide use have not
reached those of irrigated rice farmers in neighboring counties. If the present trend were to
continue unabated and uncontrolled, the without project scenario would be more expensive both
in financial and environmental terns, and the with project benefits (savings) proportionately
greater.
15.   The base case CBA takes no account of the savings that are expected to accrue in
maintained catches of fish. The Fisheries Department of MAFF has studied the potential loss of
fish as a result of pesticide use in Cambodia. The financial value of the estimated total catch of
wild fish from secondary wetlands and rice fields is between 15,000 and 20,000 tons per year
valued at $2,000/ton. At least 20% of this would be lost if pesticide use became common
practice in the rice fields. The fish catch in the rice fields may lie between 50 and 80 /kg /ha.
Assuming an economic value of $1.0/kg and average losses due to pesticide poisoning of 20%,
the value of maintained fish stocks is estimated at an additional 10 - 16 kg/ha worth about
$13/ha. This additional incremental benefit increases the indicative EIRR to 19%.
16.   The health costs of using pesticides in Cambodia are difficult to calculate, but given the
type of chemicals being used by Cambodia farmers and the method of application, it seems
certain that thousands of farmers are suffering from mild poisoning which is reducing their
productivity. Studies carried out by IRRI in the Philippines have calculated that the health costs
of pesticide use, at the level of farmers normal practices, are more than $50 per year, including
treatment and lost time.
17.   The sub-component cost per trained farmer (excluding the TA financed by FAO) is $80,
which compares favorably with the per capita economic benefit over 10/15 years. This included
the training costs of trainers. By the end of the project, Cambodia will have 90 provincial IPM
trainers who, with a modest recurrent budget (eg.:$500 per FFS X 180 FFS per year = $90,000
per annum) would be able to continue to conduct IPM farmer training programs each year with
concomitant benefits to the country. APIP's investment in IPM is thus considered to have a
strong economic justification with economic benefits accruing from project year 1.
MAFF collaborated with IDRC in 1994 and 1995, and organised pilot Farmer Field Schools (FFSs) The results
show that the use of pesticides fell by 73%, from 1.8 to 0.48 applications per fanner. This reduction in pesticide
applications produces a saving of approximately $12 a season. There was also an increase in crop yield of 15%
(from 3.88 t/ha/yr to 4.45 t/ha/yr across two seasons on irrigated rice) resulting from the improved crop husbandry
that farmers learn during FFS. The value of the increased yield is approximately $90 /ha/yr.



- 83 -
Annex 3
Page 6 of 18
LIVESTOCK
18.   The financial analyses clearly demonstrate the profitability to farmers of paying for
preventive animal health care. In all case the incremental financial benefit overwhelmingly
justifies the initial outlay that is required. In addition the viability of privatizing the provision of
basic animal health services at village level is confirmed. An average annual village veterinary
income of US$ 225 per annum would provide sufficient incentive for investment in training, and
equipment and active village vets would increase their income as village livestock through-put
increases, and/or by expanding operations into neighboring villages.
19.   Previous studies 6 demonstrated that Cambodia has a comparative advantage in producing
livestock for its own consumption and that the degree of competitiveness would be improved
substantially from the traditional production system to a better disease control system. The
studies clearly indicate that Cambodia would expect resource savings arising from the delivery of
basic animal health services to smallholder livestock producers. The economic advantages to
Cambodia of cattle and buffalo vaccination were also demonstrated in ADOR 1 7. The cost
benefit analysis projected a cattle herd for 1,000 households using (i) traditional and (ii)
improved parameters for mortality and holding all other factors constant in order to evaluate the
incremental benefit attributable to a livestock vaccination program. The hypothetical herd
increased by 15 % over 20 years (an average 2 - 3% per annum), and at the then cost of
vaccination and parasite control (Riel 1,500 per animal per year), the results showed an
incremental economic benefit per 1000 households rising from US$ 1,300 in the first year of
vaccination, to US$ 2,300 per year.
20.   The cost benefit analysis of APIP's livestock component assumes that over the life of the
project 1000 villages will receive basic animal health and production services. Using financial
prices as a best estimate of economic values, and a conservative phased adoption by farmers of
improved health care practices with respect of pigs, poultry, buffalo and cattle, and projecting the
net incremental benefit stream over twenty years, the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) is
36%. (If a lower economic value for draft powered land preparation of Riel 80,000/ha, is used,
the EIRR remains robust at 33%)
21.   In addition, the economic justification for cattle and buffalo vaccination was reassessed
using the same parameters as were used in ADOR 1 and 1996 prices. The Net Present Value
(NPV) of the incremental benefit stream remains positive at a 12 % discount rate until the cost of
basic animal health care per animal reaches a switching value of Riel 6,600. Present estimates are
6  ADOR I Report No: 42/94 UNDP - CMB I SR; Annex 5: Livestock Development and Annex 8: Economic
Analysis of Major Options
ADOR 1, Annex 8, Tables 34, 35, 36 (cattle); Table 37, 38, 39 (buffalo).



- 84 -
Annex 3
Page 7 of 18
that the cost per animal of vaccination is no more than Riel 2,000 per head and thus there is a
strong economic justification for vaccination.
22.   The direct cost of mobilizing a village vet is US$ 260 (training $ 200 + start-up medicine
grant $60). This is equivalent to the current annual salary of a provincial/district level technician,
but it is a once only cost. This means of delivering animal health and production services at
village level is cheaper, and likely to be much more effective in reaching the target group than
any other form of livestock extension system. It would be backed up by the media, and video
extension messages delivered through OAHPs.
AGRICULTURAL HYDRAULICS
23.   The core sub-component, Small-Scale Agricultural Hydraulics, involves selecting sites,
and designing and constructing structures to test the hypothesis that the rehabilitation of shallow-
bunded reservoirs and other small-scale agricultural hydraulic structures "makes economic
sense". Physical and financial monitoring of implementation of the "pilot" projects would
generate inter alia cost and benefit data presently unavailable in Cambodia, which would inform
decisions as to whether Cambodia should continue to invest in small-scale irrigation. The
Department of Hydrology (DoH) capacity building/HRD and Management Information System
(MIS) sub-components are designed to develop the skills, capacity and database to do this
effectively. The DoH will thus be able to design and implement small and medium scale
irrigation development in the future, if they prove to be economically viable.
24.   Both the Irrigation Rehabilitation Study in Cambodia, undertaken by Halcrow (June
1994) and ADOR I were pessimistic as to the economic justification for investment in irrigation.
The economic analyses in both studies assessed the broad magnitude of benefits attributable to
irrigation that are achievable under a range of cropping patterns and intensities. Based on benefit
8
estimates "the maximum affordable capital cost per hectare" was calculated . This indicated the
likely upper limit of affordable investment in irrigation rehabilitation given 1994 costs and
prices. The results depend on the assumptions as to (i) the cropping intensity, and (ii) whether
irrigation benefits only, or irrigation plus flood protection plus input benefits. The analysis
assumed a dry season yield of 2.5 t/ha and a benefit from supplementary wet season irrigation of
0.5 t/ha. If assured water supplies lead to higher input use in the wet season, yield benefit might
rise to 1.0 t/ha. Both studies indicate that the cost/ha for schemes which provide only
supplementary irrigation to a wet season paddy crop is likely to exceed the incremental benefits
from crop production. The expected outputs of APIP's small-scale agricultural hydraulics
component will confirm or reject this finding.
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Maximum affordable cost per hectare may be defined as the investment cost per hectare which makes the present
value of costs equal to the present value of benefits, less operation, maintenance and replacement costs, at a
discount rate of 10%.



- 85 -
Annex 3
Page 8 of 18
25.   There is a serious lack of cost and benefit data for small-scale irrigation rehabilitation and
development in Cambodia. So the economic analysis undertaken for this component is based on
ADOR 1 and is merely indicative (Tables ...). The sub-component itself would produce the
experience and data necessary to evaluate the economic viability of future investments in this
sub-sector. Using an economic value for paddy derived from border prices and calculated at
Riel 400/kg, the average incremental yield of 0.76 t/ha resulting from assured water supplies,
improved seeds and higher. input use in the wet season gives an incremental net benefit per
hectare of $77. Potential additional net benefits from vegetables, fish, and/or some dry season
crop production, are valued at Riel 120,000. If farmers use the stored water for secondary
production, the potential net incremental benefit increases to $125/ha. A small scale irrigation
scheme would be justified by an EIRR of 12% as long as the average net incremental benefit is
equal to or greater than US$ 100 (Riel 250,000) per hectare. This would be a guideline for site
selection and provide a starting point for discussions with rural communities as to their
incremental income expectations and their willingness to invest labor in scheme rehabilitation,
operation and maintenance.
26.   Incremental labor requirements for scheme construction are estimated at 120 labor days
per hectare. For a scheme of 75 ha, a total of 9,000 labor days could be required. In a village of
150 families, each family would have to provide 60 labor days, which is considered to be within
the average family capacity. Without food-for-work rice or payment for days worked, there is
some risk that unskilled village labor would not be sufficiently available. (see Risks by
component section)
27.   Thus, APIP's pilot schemes would be selected where the expected benefits are the highest
and where the risks associated with implementation and achievement of development impact
appear to be the lowest. In the medium to long run, rural communities and RGC will benefit only
if small-scale irrigation projects generate greater economic benefits than costs. Both the
investment and recurrent costs of irrigation rehabilitation are relatively high (but not really
known and even higher for new irrigation development), and need to be carried by an
incremental benefit per hectare receiving supplementary irrigation and/or other incremental
economic benefits attributable to surface water storage (fisheries, livestock, etc).
FISHERIES
28.   Fish and fisheries products, especially those from inland (lake, river and flood plain)
fisheries have traditionally been the single most important source of protein for the Cambodian
people; fish accounts for 40-60 percent of their protein intake. Annual per capita consumption
was 20-25kg in 1960s and is now estimated at 13-16kg. Therefore there are important nutritional
as well as welfare reasons for seeking to maintain present levels of consumption through rational
exploitation and sustainable resource use. Inland fisheries are effectively unregulated and APIP's
fisheries component would revise the legal framework, strengthen the enforcement of regulations
on fishery exploitation, and pilot sustainable community-based management of fish resources.
Besides wild fish capture, aquaculture offers an excellent opportunity for income generation and
improved nutrition in rural areas. However, there are constraints (notably lack of seed) and



- 86 -
Annex 3
Page 9 of 18
pitfalls, and sustainable aquaculture development require careful extension of appropriate
technology and supervision to avoid adverse environmental impact. APIP's support to technology
development through combining fry production, hatchery management, training and research at
the fresh water research station at Chriang Chamres, would enable the Department of Fisheries to
develop a model for sustainable aquaculture and inland fishery development.
29.   The component has been designed taking into account the experience and
recommendations of Department of Fisheries, the DANIDA/MRC Fisheries project and the FAO
sector review (1994), and APIP's budgetary provision is considered necessary and sufficient to
achieve the planned outputs.
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER RESEARCH:
30.   Rubber has important potential as a vector for rural development in Cambodia. It
generates foreign exchange earnings and contributes to government revenues. Figures for 1994
indicate an export volume of 35,000 tons valued at US$ 26 million. Unrecorded exports were
valued at an additional US$ 15 million making a total foreign exchange earnings from rubber to
US$ 41 million in 1994. The value of total rubber exports are estimated at US$ 40 million in
1995, and US$ 50 million in 1996. After logs and sawn timber (US$ 153 million), rubber is the
next most important agricultural export.
31.   ADOR 1 calculations of domestic resource costs for small-holder rubber indicate that
Cambodia has a strong comparative advantage in producing rubber for export. Economic
analysis indicates that for one hectare of rubber under small-holder management the economic
IRR is 26% for new plantation rubber and 36% for rehabilitated rubber (see ADOR 1, Annex 8,
Tables 44 and 45,). Sensitivity analysis was done for the shadow rural wage rate which is an
important element in the cost structure and the results remain convincing. They show Cambodia
retains its comparative advantage of earlier years as a producer of quality natural rubber for the
world market and indicate that smallholder rubber development would create productive
employment opportunities, alleviate poverty amongst small-holders, stimulate agro-industrial
development and foster regional development. APIP would finance research as to the
feasibility/suitability/most appropriate areas, plant types, farming systems and technologies for
smallholder rubber development as the first step in ensuring that investments in the sub-sector
are targeted so as to achieve the greatest returns.
PLANNING & STATISTICS
32.   Cambodia's economy is, and for the foreseeable future will continue to be, dominated by
agriculture and agribusiness. MAFF needs the capacity to manage the policy and planning
process and to implement projects in the sector, whether donor-assisted or not. Many of the
policies affecting the sector, are not under the direct control of MAFF, and so MAFF must also
be able to influence the decisions made in other parts of government. In an environment of
intense competition for scarce government resources, MAFF must be able to convince allocators
of resources that top budgetary priority must be accorded to those programs and projects that



- 87 -
Annex 3
Page 10 of 18
contribute to agricultural and rural growth and thus economic development. MAFF also needs
the ability to transform policies into strategic plans, programs and projects. APIP support to
DPSIC would develop capacity in agricultural statistics, economic and policy analysis, planning
and project design to help MAFF to fulfill these critical functions. (see Options Paper No.7,
ADOR II)
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT/MANAGEMENT:
33.   Key constraints in MAFF have been identified as the lack of human resource capacity and
skills, and poor job performance. APIP (like many other projects) includes a heavy investment in
training (US$ 5.106 million), which is designed to build skills and capability. Experience shows
that not infrequently training is poorly targeted; trained people are transferred out of, or not
assigned to jobs where their skills are needed. Training is ineffective and expensively acquired
skills under-used; trained staff become frustrated; and overall staff performance may even
deteriorate. If training needs are properly assessed and jobs described, then a serious attempt can
be made to match people with posts, thus optimizing human resource allocation. To be effective,
HRD/HRM must be located in a central and senior location in MAFF's institutional structure. It
is designed to create the culture and institute the processes necessary to ensure that for the
foreseeable future: all training efforts are coordinated, appropriate people are selected for
training; trained people are given jobs in the organization where their skills are necessary and
relevant; and thus the human resources within the Ministry are managed optimally. Through
managing APIP's training effort, MAFF would develop HRD/HRM systems and "learn how to
do HRD" on-the-job. This would increase the likelihood that APIP's training would usefully and
sustainable build MAFF capacity and have an impact on job performance and realization of all
project workplans (quantitative and qualitative) of the Ministry. Additionally, and more
importantly, it would establish and institutionalize that system/process within the Ministry.
Recurrent cost implications/Sustainability:
34.   Project preparation, which grew of the participatory review of agricultural development
options undertaken between April and September 1994 (ADOR II), has been itself participatory,
and APIP's components focus firmly on MAFF's priorities for the sector. The strong involvement
and commitment of senior MAFF staff has given them a sense of ownership and responsibility
for the successful implementation and sustainability of the different programs.
35.   Only through cost recovery can investments in support of development be made
sustainable. With the agreement of RGC, wherever possible APIP's design has built in direct
cost recovery mechanisms (thus agencies must pay for foundation seeds and farmers must pay
for extension seeds, the provision of basic animal health services is through private village vets, a
site selection requirement for pilot small-scale irrigation rehabilitation is an unskilled labor
contribution to construction, operation and maintenance, fish producers must purchase fishery
concessions, licenses, hatchery-produced fish fry and fingerlings and pay fines for illegal fishing.
In addition APIP would finance studies, training, strategy development, data collection, and
economic viability assessments that would provide the basis and justification for future



- 88 -
Annex 3
Page 11 of 18
privatization of services or cost recovery arrangements. These include a national small-holder
rubber development plan, evaluation of pilot schemes in small-scale irrigation development,
training in economics and data analysis for policy planners, a privatization study for vaccine
production. APIP would build MAFF's capacity as facilitator, regulator and demonstrator of new
technology, not as provider of free goods and services. The expectation is that farmers will pay
for goods and services necessary to increase their production, once they are convinced that it is
profitable and as long as the risks are not too great. Thus every attempt has been made to
minimize the recurrent costs of maintaining sub-sector programs and key MAFF activities after
the end of the project investment period.
Monitoring, Supervision, Evaluation and Reporting
36.   Monitoring would be linked to performance indicators and milestones pre-selected for
each component and agreed with the borrower at Appraisal. Monitoring would be done at both
project and component level, and would involve tracking implementation performance and
development impact. This would be achieved through:
(a)   routine physical and financial monitoring of project progress against workplans
and budgets;
(b)   judging (when qualitative) and measuring (when quantitative) performance of
each of the project components against pre-selected indicators at pre-selected
intervals; and
(c)   conducting studies as a basis for comparisons between participating and non-
participating MAFF staff and farmers so as to assess (where possible quantify and
qualify) and attribute project delivery and spread of benefits.
37.   At the project level, the PMU with short-term support from an international monitoring
specialist would be responsible for establishing the framework and scope for project-wide
monitoring. Project implementation indicators, which should be defined as input, process or
output indicators, would be clearly identified in workplans and used to monitor procurement,
disbursement, construction, appointment of staff and technical assistance, management
performance, adherence to covenanted actions, and availability of counterparts funds. At the
component level, each executing department would be responsible for its internal monitoring.
Staff from each department's planning section would be given initial training in monitoring
techniques and would then be assigned to monitor specific indicators and to prepare routine
reports. The senior technical adviser would be responsible for ensuring that a proper and
realistically achievable monitoring system is set up and followed. In addition he would ensure
that its results feed back to management in a timely and usable manner, with
problems/bottlenecks having been identified, their causes analyzed and possible solutions
outlined. Because of the evolving institutional environment in Cambodia and exogenous risks
(see section XX), the World Bank would carry out biannual supervision missions with the
authority to adjust features of the project as the need arises. On completing of the project, a full



- 89 -
Annex 3
Page 12 of 18
evaluation of performance would be undertaken. Monthly reports and accounts would be
required at provincial, departmental and PMU level, from which, full biannual reports would be
prepared for submission to MAFF, the World Bank and IFAD.
Risk Assessment and Management
38.   There are two kinds of risk. Exogenous risks may affect project implementation and
outcome, but project management has little power to influence them. Endogenous risks fall
within project management responsibility and can be minimized by responsive and timely
adjustments. These are the main areas of concern:
(a)   the security situation in the country, which may make it difficult to undertake
field activities in some areas of the country;
(b)   the fragility of the political situation (the likelihood of election fever in 1997 and
1998 distracting attention/hijacking (counterpart) resources from the project;
(c)   the funding constraints of RGC and its ability provide resources on an ongoing
basis to ensure the sustainability of the programs;
(d)   the difficulty in coordinating the work-programs of the different technical
departments of MAFF (DoA, DGPH, DGIMH, DAHP, DoF, DATEE, DPSIC)
and in gaining the support and cooperation of provincial and district offices,
especially as the scarcity of resources tends to result in* competition rather than
collaboration;
(e)   the high turn-over of trained staff due to low motivation, poor remuneration and
high demand in the private sector for their skills;
39.   The project has been designed in the full awareness of these risks and measures have been
taken to minimize their effects.
40.   The risk of inadequate counterpart staff commitment and that trained staff will not be
continuously assigned in jobs which use their skills and experience is addressed directly in APIP.
Sufficient resources have been provided through the project for adequate incentives (staff
training and travel allowances) and the maintenance of a work program that ensures both job
satisfaction and continued delivery of services/responses to needs expressed by clients. This
should encourage a high level of inter-departmental cooperation as well as job performance. The
shortage of well-qualified and experienced staff in the Ministry is both a reason for the project
and a risk. Formal training is 11% of the project base costs and Human Resource Development
and Management (HRD/HRM) is given particular importance. Long-term overseas training has
been kept to a minimum so as to ensure that able staff are in Cambodia, working as counterparts
alongside international specialists, gain experience and intensive on-the-job training. Funds for
language training have been included so as to promote communication and understanding
between local and international project staff. Implementation performance indicators would be



- 90 -
Annex 3
Page 13 of 18
monitored throughout the project. Problems would be identified, their causes analyzed and
alternative solutions fed back to PMU and the relevant technical departments. This would ensure
that workplans and targets get readjusted in line with developing implementation capacities.
41.  It will take time to build analytical, managerial, and technical skills in MAFF and APIP
includes a large and necessary amount of TA. There is a risk inherent in the potential conflict
between meeting implementation targets and building national capacities. In some cases it may
be necessary and desirable to trade-off short-term effects for long-term sustainable impact.
Project targets have been deliberately so that the potential for conflict between objectives is
minimized. In evaluating bids for/bilateral provision of TA, MAFF needs to be aware of this risk
and choose TA with both technical and human skills and experience. (A willingness to learn
Khmer may reflect commitment to TA/counterpart collaboration and skills transfer).
RISK ASSESSMENT AND MANAGEMENT BY COMPONENT
Agronomy
42.   There is a risk of excessive concentration on research station and laboratory research,
rather than collecting information from within the country and elsewhere, testing the alternatives
in farmers fields and developing recommendations. The component does not seek to develop in
DoA the capacity to undertake research, though there is a recognition that Cambodia may wish to
have its own national agricultural research system (NARS) at some point in the future. This
additional goal may divert attention from field work. Indicators have been chosen which will
ensure that the component is evaluated on the basis of completed field trials, developed
recommendations, and the success of its technology transfer efforts. At the end of the project's
life, DoA would have the capacity to manage, co-ordinate and direct agricultural research and
development efforts; to evaluate and test research results, and to develop agronomic
recommendations. Only if research results feed into such recommendations, which are then
adopted by farmers, will the costs of the research and development effort be justified.
43.   The risks associated with weak or inadequate linkages between DoA and the technology
transfer and extension process in Cambodia is well recognized. The Department of Training,
Economics and Extension (DTEE) is newly responsible for the transfer of technology to farmers.
Whether the investment in capacity building in DoA is justified, will depend on successful
technology transfer, and hence on the establishment of strong and effective linkages with DTEE
as it develops its functions/modus operandi. For example, DTEE will have a well-resourced
media unit, requiring inter alia DoA recommendations. If DTEE fails to transfer technology
successfully (indicated by farmer adoption rates), the economic justification for DoA support, is
seriously undermined. Farmers are the ultimate clients of DoA, and it is their crop productivity
that DoA research and development activities are designed to enhance. DTEE is being supported
by a five year AusAID project which started in October 1995 and it is too early to judge whether
DTEE /AusAID will successfully develop and implement extension system. DoA's responsibility
is to ensure that (i) strong linkages are forged and continuous dialogue takes place with DTEE,
and (ii) DoA recommendations are tested, proven and appropriate. As the different stakeholders



- 91 -
Annex 3
Page 14 of 18
(DoA and DTEE) are being provided with adequate resources, the "competition factor" will be
minimized and the likelihood of effective collaboration enhanced.
44.   DoA effectiveness will also depend on linkages with the Provincial Departments of
Agriculture (PDAs), as their role evolves in what may become a decentralized system of
government service delivery. By providing support to PDAs, APIP ensures that the PDAs
participate in the process of MAFF strengthening. The outputs of this collaboration would
include some proven and tested strategies for cost effective (i) farmer level technology testing;
(ii) farmer level technology transfer; (iii) two-way transmission system of technical concerns to
DoA/recommendations from DoA. DoA programs in seed multiplication, soil fertility, plant
protection and importantly farming systems would be planned and implemented in tandem with
the PDAs (especially the five provinces 9 receiving support for field programs under the project)
and, to the extent possible, informed by the extension approach being adopted and strengthened
by DTEE. Good linkages should prevent duplication of effort and/or contradiction of
recommendations/approach. Results of field trials should be analyzed (through participatory
farmer field days and provincial workshops) and disseminated widely at provincial and district
level, as well as at national level. DoA has the advantage of having (under-utilized because
under-resourced) staff at provincial and district level who will continue to have a direct role in
helping farmers improve their productivity. These staff, who are responsible administratively to
the PDA and technically to the Department of Agronomy, would be key players in strengthening
the DoA/PDA linkages. The DoA Technical Coordination Office would be responsible for
institutionalizing and managing these key linkages and for ensuring that the other DoA sub-
components use/respond to them. Component success requires that a technology
transfer/extension strategy for MAFF is agreed and institutionalized, so that recommendations
coming from DoA will be adopted by smallholders, including women.
45.   For applied and adaptive research, the main risks would be overcome with high quality of
TA, strong linkages/coordination with DTEE and PDAs, and workplans that minimize on-station
research, and maximize the testing of research results and development of recommendations
though participatory on-farm trials managed by farmers (including women) and supervised by
provincial and district agronomy/ extension staff. The careful selection of sites for on-farm
research and the close collaboration of farmers and other disciplines within agriculture will be
critical to success. All studies, surveys and on-farm research should be undertaken with and
through provincial and district staff of the PDAs. This will provide on-the-job training, and
increase the likelihood that local constraints and potentials are recognized. Reports/workshops
analyzing farming systems/crop diversification options should be distributed/held at local level.
46.   The risk of duplication of effort occurs because there are many different agencies
promoting agricultural and rural development in Cambodia and a serious lack of coordination.
By strengthening the technical capability of DOA, APIP increases the likelihood that other
agencies and ministries would seek DOAs technical support. By working together with DTEE
Kompong Thom, Kompong Cham, Kratie, Prey Veng and Svay Rieng.



- 92 -
Annex 3
Page 15 of 18
and PDAs in particular, and having an operational and properly funded field program, DoA staff
would learn from the experience of other departments and RGC ministries, particularly the
Ministry of Rural Development (MRD), which through CARERE/UNDP and PRASAC/EU is
increasingly involved with agricultural development activities (including seed multiplication,
credit, input supply, fruit trees and agro-forestry).
47.   The Seed Strategy depends on government support for a proper regulatory framework for
the national seed sector and strict adherence to the cost recovery arrangements established within
that framework. Ideally foundation seed should only be released to a client, whether government
or not, upon payment.
48.   There is a very low risk that trained farmers will not adopt IPM because of FAO
experience in the region, which is utilized in a proven design of the sub-component and the
proven financial incentive to adopt.
Animal Health And Production
49.   Notwithstanding the difficulties that the govermment has in financing their provision,
there is uncertainty as to the level of government commitment to the full privatization of the
supply and delivery of veterinary services, traditionally the main "raison d'etre" of DAHP. In
general the senior management of the DAHP support the private village vet approach and the
privatization of the supply chain. Where DAHP is less certain is whether to support the
privatization of the Vaccine Production Laboratory (VPL). This is partly for strategic reasons and
partly because it will erode the facilities of which DAHP can claim credit. The main risk of the
component is thus concerned with the successful privatization of the vaccination service. To
provide an efficient service, adequate supplies of the right types of vaccine have to be available
at the district offices. These vaccines will come from a variety of sources including VPL, and
careful planning of procurement and control of stocks will be required. At the wrap up meeting
MAFF was asked to consider its policy and communicate its decisions to IFAD and the Bank by
March 30th 1996.
50.   The provision of credit for livestock is a second risk. This has been successfully done on
a small scale by NGOs but the implementation of a program for 10,500 loans will be more
difficult to control and supervise properly. Furthermore the design envisages tapping into
external credit programs rather than creating a self contained credit program. Since the potential
external programs are not yet fully established, a definite commitment cannot be made. This
should be possible by appraisal; if not, conditions can be included which must be met before the
program is initiated. The economic analysis assumes no benefit from credit.
51.   The benefits of the management and livestock feed activity are difficult to be certain of.
There is technology available proven in other countries but the adaptation of this and its
dissemination is more difficult than that of disease control technology. The absence of trained
staff in this field and prior experience makes it more risky. The initiative is kept small to
minimize the risk and no benefits have been assumed in the financial and economic analysis.



- 93 -
Annex 3
Page 16 of 18
52.   There is a small risk that the MAFF and DAHP would be unable to co-ordinate the
livestock development component to be financed by IFAD with projects financed by other
external donors in the animal health and production sector in the four provinces, to avoid any
unnecessary inconsistency or disturbance, as requested by the mission at the wrap-up meeting
with the DAHP.
Agricultural Hydraulics
53.   There is a risk that APIP builds capacity, as well as expectations, in GDIMH to
implement uneconomic agricultural hydraulics projects. Irrigation projects tend to fail more often
on economic grounds rather than technical grounds, perhaps because operation and maintenance
costs are simply too high relative to the incremental financial benefits i.e. such schemes are
economically non-viable.
54.   The component costs do not include the cost of unskilled labor for construction and
canals. It is assumed that the villagers would provide such labor as an unpaid beneficiary
contribution. Both the fact that other villages have received WFP food-for-work for small-scale
agricultural hydraulics projects, and rural poverty, may deter villagers from foregoing their
alternative activities, so that they are less prepared to provide free labor. A rough estimate
suggests that each family may have to provide up to 60 labor days during scheme construction.
The management of unskilled labor requires a degree of village organization that may not exist in
some Cambodian villages. The component would promote village coordination and farmer
participation during site selection and construction by involving provincial DoA and MRD staff
in the Project Implementation Teams. Labor availability and village management considerations
also have implications for the schemes' operation and maintenance requirements.
55.   The key issues in irrigation sector work (in every country) are (i) operation and
maintenance; (ii) water users groups/associations; (iii) water user charges/cost recovery. These
issues are not adequately addressed in APIP and so there is the risk of not achieving minimum
benefits. Once the water is assured, there is no provision for further support and/or farmer
training. The extent to which progress is made in piloting ways of managing water and charging
for water will depend on collaboration between the different MAFF staff at district and
provincial levels, and the quality of the TA.
56.   Economic sustainability requires that a proper cost recovery/water charging policy, for
small-scale irrigation schemes be established. The policy should at least ensure that funds are
available to finance the proper O&M of irrigation systems, once constructed and rehabilitated.
Such a policy, once implemented, would encourage efficient use of water resources. These are
unlikely to be achieved within the life of the project.
57.   Benefits from small-scale irrigation rehabilitation would be sustainable ONLY IF an
O&M organization is developed simultaneously, with farmers assuming some of the
responsibilities. Experience in Cambodia of joint village-level operation and maintenance of
drinking water does not augur well; surveys show that within a couple of years of installation,



_ 94 -
Annex 3
Page 17 of 18
50% are inoperative despite the undoubted benefits to the local community. For APIP this means
that considerable emphasis must be placed on securing beneficiary participation at all stages of
planning and implementation of the pilot schemes, and for evidence of community mobilization
and commitment being a critical (without which, no) selection criterion.
58.   There may be other more cost effective and less complex means of addressing problems
of low incomes and local food insecurity. It should not be assumed that all existing schemes are
good candidates for rehabilitation. A scheme /site may have been abandoned because of flaws in
design or farmer indifference.
59.   While recognizing the priority and importance RGC and MAFF give to irrigation, APIP
has addressed all these risk by reducing the scope of the small-scale agricultural hydraulics sub-
component from four to two pilot provinces, so that sufficient time and effort is spent on scheme
selection and planning, on the 'softer' aspects of irrigation, and on evaluating the viability of
investing further in the sub-sector. In view of all these uncertainties, APIP's field activities are
experimental and pilot.
Fisheries
60.   There is a small risk that RGC will delay in promulgating the revised fisheries legislation.
Smallholder Rubber Research
61.   No significant risks.
Statistics
62.   There may be problems in collecting statistical data of high quality because of lack of
motivation by district level field staff, and the unwillingness on the part of farmers to provide
accurate data. The first risk is addressed through training and field allowances which would
provide a thorough appreciation of the importance of using proper statistical techniques and
maintaining accuracy in reporting. The second risk is exogenous and is expected to lessen as
confidence increases in government.
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND MANAGEMENT
63.   There are a variety of risks inherent to this approach. Successful progress will require that
full-time, competent and sufficiently senior counterpart staff are assigned to HRD/HRM. The
risk that these are unavailable is medium to medium-high. There is a concern that job and
training selection are based on political exigencies and patronage, not on merit, suitability,
qualifications and experience. These criteria for selection will continue to some extent; and will
limit the effectiveness of HRD/HRM. The developing culture of merit will take some time to
establish, but the process needs to be started and the long-term gains are expected to be worth the
investment. It may be argued that MAFF is still in the process of defining its role and



- 95 -
Annex 3
Page 18 of 18
responsibilities in the sector and there is a risk that investment in HRD/HRM is premature.
APIP's heavy investment in HRD/HRM reflects the position that HRD/HRM needs to be part of
the process and will contribute importantly to it through the definition and description of jobs,
tasks and through training needs assessment (TNA).



- 96 -                              Annex 4
Page 1 of 8
INSTITUTIONAL ANALYSIS OF MAFF
Introduction
1.    Up to the 1993 election, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forests and Fisheries (MAFF) had
responsibility for all of Cambodia's natural resources, their protection and economic exploitation
apart from the rubber industry which was an institution of Cabinet rank. Subsequent to the
election, this anomaly was rectified and DGPH was placed within the structure of the Ministry of
Agriculture as a Directorate General. At the same time the institutional arrangements for the
sector were made more complex by the creation of the Ministries of Rural Development and
Environment. Integration of MAFF technical activities therefore requires not only effective
linkages between different departments within the Ministry itself but also close collaboration
with two other Ministries and their constituent departments. As a further complication to the
equation, linkages also need to be clarified between the central departments of MAFF in Phnom
Penh and the Provincial Offices of Agriculture.
2.    In the previous government, the Ministry structure was designed to carry out its functions
in a centrally planned environment in which the Ministry of Planning handed down the annual
targets and plans which passed through the central MAFF and on to the provincial and district
offices. Departments such as COCMA and "Agricultural Machinery" distributed fertilizer and
ploughed land to try and achieve these targets and scarce funds were distributed from the
Ministry of Finance according to the plan. In these circumstances each department in MAFF had
a clearly defined role and target and neither ministry nor constituent departments had to exercise
much initiative. Although the system had all the limitations of a centrally planned economy, it
was straightforward to implement. The ministry now faces a much more demanding role with
increasing responsibility for taking its own initiative.
3.    Unfortunately the legacy that the Command Economy has left is a Ministry with no
experience in planning its own activities, coordinating its own resources, allocating its own funds
and being able to respond to demands and pressures in a sound and logical manner. The different
departments are now being courted by a plethora of different interests, private and public,
national and international, exploitive and green, French and Australian, government and non
government. The situation is further complicated by the political dimension. Thus the
beleaguered senior officials in the Ministry and Departments, many of them promoted without
appropriate qualifications and skills, have a multitude of choices to make having never had to
take significant decisions before and without competent staff to analyze the issues and present
properly researched position papers. In this situation, the flat organization structure, still largely
the status quo, inevitably leads to introspective and defensive departments all guarding their
territory and each jealous of the other. Furthermore the Ministry itself is jealous of the role of the
Ministry of Rural Development and suspicious of the Ministry of Environment. Perhaps the only
thing that the departments can agree on in terms of organization is the perceived need to get
control of the provincial offices.



- 97 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 8
Ministry Reorganization
4.    The obvious starting point for a properly integrated and managed Ministry is a sound and
logical structure. Without this a high degree of uncertainty will exist and constituent departments
will be defensive rather than open. Defensive attitudes, the antithesis of integration, are further
heightened by the widely known fact that the government is under pressure to reduce the size of
the civil service. Departments are anxious to justify their existence in as far as it is in their power
to take positive action.
5.    Given the perceived inadequacies of the current MAFF structure, a variety of different
organizations are offering advice and financial support for restructuring. The principle of these
are:
*     UNDP, through its public administration reform program, has embarked on a
logical but complex process which will involve redefining the mandates and
missions of the Ministries, undertaking functional analysis reorganizing the
structure and then determining the appropriate manning which is expected to be
much reduced from existing levels.
ADOR 1 proposed two possible options focusing particularly on alternatives at
provincial level but ADOR 2 was unable to make any concrete progress in getting
policy decisions and settling at least a few of the uncertainties.
D     Asian Development Bank has approved an Agricultural Sector Loan which
originally proposed to reorganize all three ministries involved with the natural
environment suggesting the establishment of two ministries to cover the same field,
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment and Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Development. The final loan agreement drew back from this radical initiative.
*     A French policy adviser to the Minister of Agriculture has proposed a new structure
for MAFF which includes five "directions". His proposals have the merit of
streamlining the Ministry's structure and lessening rather than exacerbating the
problems of functional integration.
*     FAO has launched a TCP to examine organization and restructuring of the ministry.
6.    Since 1993, the main institutional changes to MAFF to have been effected are:
the appointment of the Director General for the whole ministry
the transfer of Cadastre to be a cabinet institution,
the establishment of the Department of Technical and Economic Extension



-98 -                               Annex 4
Page 3 of 8
in common with all ministries, the payment of provincial staff directly for Phnom
Penh rather than through the Governors offices.
The upgrading of the Department of Hydrology to a general directorate.
7.    It is believed that further fundamental changes are necessary. However, while there are
still some features of the structure shown in Figure 1 which are inappropriate to a free market
economy (COCMA, Department of Machinery. Rubber plantations), the general approach seems
logical. Is there a need for further analysis and "soul searching" by external experts? Perhaps the
aid community should encourage MAFF to continue the process of gradual change and seek to
smooth the way with strategic financial support over a period of time.
8.    Unfortunately the lack of formal decision taking is raising the stakes in terms of attracting
donor interest and diverting energy to the extent that the benefit of the eventual decisions taken
may be outweighed by cost of reaching those decisions. Part of the problem is that the long-
winded public administration reform program allows an escape clause to decision takers who
wish to avoid continuing major decisions such as the reduction of the size of the civil service.
9.    What are the possibilities of improving the functional integration of MAFF technical
activities in these circumstances? The formal approach of reorganization is likely to be slow and
unproductive, especially as the concerned industries are likely to remain jealous and/or
suspicious of each other. The alternative is to look for organic changes and creation of bridges
between departments.
Strengthening of Ministerial Authority
10.   Integration of technical activities in MAFF depends first and foremost on the institutional
structure of the Ministry. The currently proposed structure of the Ministry is shown in Figure 1.
Responsibilities for coordination and integration of services lies with the General Direction
whose duties are as follows:
-     Coordinate all the activities and works of the ministry and follow up to improve
application
-     General administrative summary reports
-     Training
-     Accountancy and budget
-     Development of agricultural sector
-     Establish the program and measures for the line departments and provincial
agricultural services
-     International cooperation and relationships
-     Applications for approval of regulations
-     Extension of agricultural technologies
-     Confidential duties



- 99                                  Annex 4
Page 4 of 8
11.   The Director General is responsible for exercising these powers. Although not shown in
the figure clearly, the DG of the ministry is understood to have authority directly over DGPH and
GDIHM as the position is senior to the DGs of these departments. The DG therefore has very
great responsibility for integration of Ministry technical departments, at least in theory. How
does it work in practice? According to the current incumbent, the position has only just been
confirmed so the mode of operation is not yet fully established. What is envisaged is that all
referrals of coordination issues from the departments to the Secretary of State will pass through
the DG who will call whatever ad hoc committee is necessary to resolve issues. It must be
doubted whether it will actually work like this given the power of the other DGs and Directors as
well as the role of the Under-secretaries. Nonetheless the structure appears sound if authority and
discipline can be exercised.
12.   Probably the first need is give more authority to the General Directorate of the Ministry
itself through the strengthening of the service departments, particularly Planning, Personnel and
Finance. At present the authority of the Secretary and Under Secretaries of State is based chiefly
on their personal qualities and their political influence. Some are important in decision taking
while others are largely ignored and considered irrelevant to decisions over projects or policy.
Without a strong Ministry, the departments, particularly rubber and hydrology but also fisheries
and forestry, will pursue their own agendas with limited attention to Ministry policy.
13.   In terms of control, finance is of crucial importance. It is assumed that the Finance
Department will take on the responsibility of annual budgeting for the whole Ministry,
supporting the Minister in budget reviews and being responsible for disbursement to the
departments as well as subsequent internal controls. Given increasing flows of development
funds, the power that the Secretary of State will be able to exercise through the finance
department will be very considerable.
14.   The strengthening of the Department of Planning, Statistics and International Cooperation
(DPSIC) will also be important in creating a sense of decision taking based on proper analysis of
issues as well as a rational allocation of responsibilities to departments. The DPSIC with its
important resource centers such as LUMO and Agriculture Statistics can confer authority on
Ministry decisions through its possession of information. In addition, there will eventually be a
requirement that all projects are analyzed internally prior to approval so that they can be
examined for conformity to national plans and policy and for environmental impact.
15.   The upgrading of the Department of Staff to a full ministry personnel department will
also strengthen the authority of the Ministry vis a vis the departments in terms of being a
potential arbiter of promotions, transfers etc. This department may have the role of executing
decisions over staff reductions and streamlining of structures agreed under the Public
Administration Reform Program.
The budgeting system for the General Directorates may be autonomous



- 100 -                               Annex 4
Page 5 of 8
16.   While the DPSIC has a formal role to plan the functional integration of constituent
departments, the other departments will be very important in giving the Ministry real authority to
exercise control over the departments and to insist on appropriate integration and allocation of
resources.
Provincial Offices.
17.   ADOR 1 emphasized the positive aspects of the Provincial Departments of Agriculture.
The Directors of Agriculture had responsibility for the operations of all departments represented
at that level and were required to produce an integrated plan and budget at the beginning of each
year. Departments were generally housed in the same offices and there appeared to be an
atmosphere of cooperation and collaboration in many provinces. Even now, visitors to provincial
offices attend initial meetings chaired by the Director or Vice Director, thus knowledge of
projects and activities cannot be kept within departments.
18.   Given the need to encourage integration, it appears that the provincial and district offices
are important catalysts in this process and that efforts should be made to protect this structure and
prevent the departments from segregating their staff at this level. This will require more than just
passivity because, as more funds flow, bigger departments will perhaps seek to establish separate
offices and pursue their own provincial programs independent of the Director's office. Apart
from department aspirations, there are senior staff in MAFF who favor returning to the French
model of vertical integration. Others, recalling the problems of integration and coordination
which existed then, favor the current structure. The mere fact that staff meet each other in a
common office is valuable for horizontal integration. In Thailand, where each department has
established its own provincial offices, integration has to be encouraged through artificial means
such as joint committees which often serve only to accentuate rivalry.
19.   Inevitably the importance of the provincial office and therefore its contribution to
Ministry integration will depend on the allocation of resources. Moves towards decentralization
now taking place will help to strengthen the role of the provincial departments. Additionally
donors, similarly to NGOs in the past, may find it more effective to fund projects directly
through provincial offices which can integrate services of different departments effectively. This
may give quicker access to rural target groups.
20.   In summary, provincial offices constitute one way in which functional integration can be
strengthened and it would a good investment to provide funds to strengthen the offices
themselves. Facilities and transport might be provided along with training in planning and
budgeting techniques. Well conceived provincial agricultural plans might attract funds directly
which would benefit both provincial staff resources as well as specialists from Phnom Penh.



- 101 -                             Annex 4
Page 6 of 8
Integration Structures
21.   Recognizing the difficulties of integrating technical activities both within MAFF and
between MAFF and MRD and Environment, the Government is establishing a hierarchy of
integration and coordination committees. These include:
*     The Cambodian Development Council (CDC) which oversees all national
development policy and has jurisdiction over all public sector institutions. It also
controls private sector companies through its powers to grant registration and tax
benefit rights.
*     An apex Council for Agriculture and Rural Development (CARD) established in
November 1994. Although this committee has no permanent secretariat or regular
agenda, it does provide a forum for discussion of important national issues and for
high level decision taking. It is therefore one way in which government resources
are coordinated to tackle issues.
*     Under the CARD umbrella, specific issues that require the coordination of a range
of technical services can be addressed. An example is the establishment of the
Credit Committee for Rural Development (CCRD) under a formal sub-decree in
February 1995. This committee consists of representatives form MRD and MAFF
as well as Ministry of Finance, the National Bank and three NGOs involved in rural
credit programs. This committee is seen as a permanent body with a general
secretary and a supporting technical unit.
l    At provincial level there is now a subdecree to establish Provincial Development
Committees with the heads of each Ministry represented; similarly at district level.
22.   By and large this approach is particularly appropriate to coordinate and integrate between
Ministries. Recourse to committees as a general solution to integration problems at lower levels
is not sound because it slows down the processes of government and decision taking.
Internal Integration Measures
23.   At Ministry level, there could be scope to establish some structures to facilitate
integration and support the General Directorate in its role. For example the Secretary of State
could establish a "Policy and Planning" Committee consisting of the Directors and Directors
General of all the line departments e.g. rubber, hydrology, agronomy, forestry, fisheries and
livestock. This could be a standing committee meeting routinely once a month and with the
Department of Planning as the secretariat. Agendas would focus particularly on overlapping
areas and projects cutting across more than one department's responsibilities. Resolutions could



- 102 -                                Annex 4
Page 7 of 8
be recorded as the basis for internal MAFF decisions where legal decrees or sub decrees were not
needed.
24.   A second possibility may be to establish routine transfer of staff between departments.
Although there are clearly limitations in terms of technical skills to the number of such transfers,
there are many non-technical positions in the departments, planning, administration, personnel,
management, where transfer could be possible. In some countries directors are routinely
transferred to prevent empire building and encourage fresh approaches and management. This
would help to break down the barriers between departments and encourage allegiance to a fully
integrated Ministry.
25.   In certain situations there may be scope to introduce special coordination arrangements.
One example found in other countries facing the problem of research and extension links is to
establish coordination committees at the different levels, Ministry, province and district, where
agronomists present their research and extension staff report on farmers' needs. In irrigation
schemes, agronomy staff may be provided with space in scheme management offices. Watershed
management may be better integrated by establishing common facilities for hydrology and
forestry.
26.   At a more superficial level but nonetheless as an important "team" building activity,
MAFF should be required to produce an annual report of its activities in which all technical
departments are fully examined. For a wider audience, a MAFF newspaper could be produced
and circulated to provide information on Ministry activities to all employees, covering not only
technical matters but articles with human content, examples of successful projects etc. This is a
task that the DTEE could undertake.
Conclusions
27.   Although the establishment of a more logical structure for MAFF will help to integrate its
activities, it will probably be some time before it occurs and will certainly not be the "cure-all" to
a problem which faces all large institutions. When restructuring does occur, the principle
embodied in the "French" plan, that of reducing the number of departments to five directions
would have particular merit in encouraging integration.
28.   Aside from this major issue, there are organic actions which can be taken to improve
integration. There is a need to increase the central authority of the Ministry by upgrading the
planning and policy department, the finance department and the department of staff. This will
give increased power to the director-general to exercise his coordination role. One particular
strength that MAFF does currently have is a provincial service which is quite well integrated.
Departments should be discouraged from segregating their staff at this level (i.e. aid agencies
should not support the construction of new office facilities separate to the main office) and
donors may like to support the training of provincial staff and the improvement of facilities on a
provincial rather than departmental basis.



- 103 -                             Annex 4
Page 8 of 8
29.   The development of the decentralization proposals and the establishment of PRDCs etc.
all with the department heads as members is another way to integrate actions although the size of
the proposed committees is of concern. Selective establishment of coordination committees is
particularly useful in inter-ministerial integration and has already been successfully introduced
by RGOC. It could also be of value within MAFF but is not the panacea to all integration
problems as Thai experience has amply demonstrated. Finally there are a number of low key
measures and actions which could be taken to build "team" spirit within the Ministry.
30.  Integration of MAFF services with the activities of the Ministries of Rural Development
and Environment will depend primarily on the effective functioning of the Committee for
Agriculture and Rural Development.



- 104 -                            Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT:
STRUCTURE AND TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.    The various project components would be implemented by the responsible technical
departments, under the coordination at Ministry level of a Project Steering Committee, (PSC)
comprising the department directors and senior Ministry officials concerned as members, and
assisted by a Project Management Unit (PMU) with responsibility for budget planning and
review, monitoring, procurement and disbursement under the APIP. Proposed membership of the
PSC and staffing of PMU are attached for consideration and would be agreed with the Bank
during appraisal. The PMU would be assisted full-time during the first half of the project, and
thereafter on an intermittent basis, by three internationally recruited staff: a Senior Project
Management & Policy Adviser, who would be the CTA for the project; a Procurement Adviser;
and a Financial & Administrative Specialist, who would help formulate and establish the
necessary financial, administrative, reporting and accounting procedures for the smooth running
of the project. Short term TA would be recruited for supervision of buildings/civil works. In
addition, a short-term Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist familiar with institutional
development projects would assist in establishing and maintaining within the PMU and the
implementing departments a coherent system for monitoring the project's performance
milestones and impact indicators. A full evaluation of the implementation and results of the
project would be carried out by the PMU and discussed with the Bank before the close of the
project.
2.    Annual work programs and budget requests under the project would be established by the
relevant offices of the implementing departments, coordinated with any parallel offices
concerned, approved by the Provincial Governor and, where appropriate, the PRDC in the case of
provincial activities, sent to the technical department in Phnom Penh for checking and
compilation and then transmitted to the PMU for review and final approval. The work planning
and budget system for the project needs to be coordinated with that for the Ministry as a whole,
which is currently being reorganized. For this reason, the PMU would hire a budget systems
analyst or chartered accountant to examine the actual programming and budget system in the
Ministry, with particular reference to the reporting and flow-of-funds relationships between
headquarters and the provincial offices, and to present recommendations for any amendments to
this system to be adopted under the project.



- 105 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
Ministry of Agriculture. Forestry & Fisheries:
Possible Composition of Project Management Unit (PMU)
(to be established by Minister's order by [planned date of effectiveness])
Senior Adviser:
The Secretary of State for Agriculture
Chairman:
The Under Secretary of State for Agriculture [responsible for Planning]
Vice-chairmen:
Director-General, Irrigation, Hydrology & Meteorology
Director, Planning, Statistics & International Cooperation
Members:
1. Director-General, Ministry of Agriculture
2. Director-General, DGPH
3. Director, Agronomy
4. Director, Livestock
5. Director, Fishery
6. Director, Personnel
7. Deputy Director-General, IHM
8. Deputy Director, Planning & Statistics
9. Principal, Prek Leap Agricultural College
10. Chief, Office of International Cooperation
Full-time staff:
=> procurement officer
=> planning/budget officer
=> project monitoring officer
=> accounting assistant
=> office technology assistant
=> administrative assistant
International T.A:
=:' Senior Project Management & Policy Adviser (28 months)
=  Finance & Administration Adviser (28 months)
=> Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist (10 months_



- 106 -                                Annex 6
Page 1 of 6
RECOMMENDATIONS STRENGTHENING GENDER AWARENESS
Introduction
1.   In Cambodia, over 65% of the farming population are women,1 and their employment in
the agricultural sector is 80%. Many of these women are either widows, single heads of
households or unmarried due to the decimation of male population during the war, and the
emergence of handicapped males after the war. Women took over the traditional roles of men in
the farms, such as plowing, during the war years and it has continued to the present time.
However, the Khmer woman's traditional non-participation in village level decision-making
remained the same. Her multiple roles as home-maker, reproductive partner, mother, farmer,
animal raiser, income generator, etc. constrain her in farm management decision-making and in
availing herself with new knowledge that would help her in the home and in the farm.
2.    The awareness and understanding of rural women's roles by agricultural development
agents (planners and implementors) is necessary to accommodate practical programs, such as the
timing or venue of training activities; and to avoid unintended barriers to access to services, such
as conditions in exchange for irrigation.
General Issues Identified and Recommendations
3.    The following main issues were identified as a result of the field visits done with the team
and the field work done individually employing rapid rural appraisal techniques. They apply
equally to the livestock, hydrology and agronomy components of APIP.
(a)   Information Gap - between the availability of data on improved agricultural
production and animal raising, and the access to information by the mostly
women farmers who need them. Constraints include illiteracy, limits in mobility
and time due to multiple roles of women, and absence of extension services. For
example, men attend the training on how to use fertilizers, but women are the ones
who administer the application of fertilizers.
One solution, is to bring an information package right on the village door in a
simple, comprehensible and visual form. This can be done through the MAFF
extension program using existing resources. A video show for instance, on the
basic "how-to's" (such as how to treat sick animals, how to increase agricultural
produce, etc.) can be shown to the villages on a scheduled basis. The use of video
had proven effective in the villages during the UNTAG promotions to encourage
people to vote. Village mobile theaters have been done in the 60s and had proven
popular among the farmers. When done as a village activity, it becomes a social
1 The Secretariat of State for Women's Affairs, Cambodia's Country Report, Women: Key to
National Reconstruction, March 1995.



- 107 -                                 Annex 6
Page 2 of 6
event where both women and men will enthusiastically participate in and make
time for.
The gender catalyst can coordinate the flow of such services by liaising with the
concerned government agencies or NGOs.
(b) . Needs Assessment (social survey) - on female farmers who mostly perform the
agricultural labor on top of their multiple roles in the home, (as mother,
reproductive partner, home-maker, finance manager, animal raiser, farmer, etc.) in
order to better understand the reasons behind non-participation in village level
decision-making and to find ways to help them through program planning and
implementation.
The needs assessment (social survey) has to be designed as part of the planning
process in the project components before project implementation.
(c)   Lack of female extension workers - commonly attributed to the lack of qualified
and interested applicants, and the constraints of their mobility dictated by cultural
factors.
One underlying reason for this is the high rate of illiteracy among women. Even
for some who manage to further their training or education, they drop out before
the course is completed. One reason2 pointed out is the inadequate or absence of
living facilities close to the school or training venue, and the constraints of space
when living with other people or relatives. Women are prone to be more
vulnerable than men given this kind of situation.
In order to increase the number of potential female trainees, incentives are
necessary to accommodate their needs. Quota can be a way to ensure female
presence in recruitment, as such in the livestock component, it is recommended
that 30% of village vets to be trained have to be women. The standards of
recruitment need not be affected.
(d)   Lack of female staff or officers within the Ministry of Agriculture. Although there
is a growing awareness on the importance of putting female officers in the
government offices, there is a real issue of competition, since very few women are
qualified. In Kompong Cham for example, there is a newly created Office of
Extension under MAFF headed by a woman, but of the total number of provincial
staff numbering 309, only 24 are women. It is necessary to provide additional
incentives to women, such as living facilities; and to design a more active
recruitment strategy to attract more women to apply and identify those who are
qualified.
2 As identified by the Secretary of State of Women Affairs, during the interview with the author
on February 7, 1996.



- 108 -                                Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
Proposed Strategy
4.   In consistency with the development agencies incorporating gender issues into their
projects, such as CARERE (doing community development), UNICEF (WID projects), CIDSE
and OXFAM (gender training), it is proposed that the Bank-supported agriculture and rural
development projects take a two-pronged approach. From the bottom is village level community
development organization incorporating gender orientation among extension agents and village
development committees; and from the top is gender orientation and training among government
policy makers, researchers and key actors from the agencies involved in this project.
5.    t is considered that a need for consciousness-raising is necessary as a starting point for
gender sensitivity, otherwise even simple activities designed in the village level may not be
understood. This basic educational process is essential so that the concept of gender is
understood and consequently, can influence program planning. It will also avoid misconceptions
(such as role-reversal, inconsistency with Khmer culture, Western bias, etc.) which may cause
discomfort in many men.
6.    Unless this consciousness-raising is done through orientation training, it will be difficult
for the government at all levels to understand the constraints faced by women farmers who
comprise the majority of agricultural labor in Cambodia. A gender perspective is therefore
necessary in the assessment, planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of APIP.
7.    A catalyst facilitating this approach should be part of the technical assistance provided
under APIP. They will be the personnel outlined below. Capacity building will flow from both
directions: bottom up, from the field and top down, from the bureaucratic hierarchy. Details and
costing of gender orientation training within the project components and the additional personnel
required are provided below.
Recommended Budget
Personnel
(a)   One Gender/Community Development (CD) Overall Coordinator
(b)   (National Local Position) $1,500-2,000/month
(c)   Five Provincial Community Development Coordinators, one in each of the five
provinces covered
(d)   (Provincial Local Position) $800-1000/month
(e)   Community Development Workers, based on the number of villages and the
population of each village
(f)   (District and Village Level) $500-700/month



- 109 -                              Annx 6
Page 4 of 6
(g)   One Expatriate Consultant $250-350/day or $3-5,000/month
The Terms of Reference (TOR) of the Overall Coordinator is included in this report (See Annex
A).
Training
(a)   Materials - budget to be incorporated within each project component
(b)   Training Allowance, in consistency with the budget in the project components,
10-15 participants per training, lasting 2-3 days
(c)   The frequency of the gender orientation training will be consistent with the
various local training in the project components. It is proposed that gender
analysis be included in the program, as an introductory orientation.
Logistics
8.    The budget for the items below can be a lump sum which would be made available as
part of the total project cost, s-ecifically allotted to gender costs in each component:
(a)   Travelling Allowance (Per Diem)
(b)   Transportation
(c)   Incidental Expenses
Specific Suggestions for Each Component:
(a)   Livestock
(i)   The design and production of audio-visual materials, already costed in the
budget, particularly reaching out to the women animal raisers who could
not read and write, can be shown to villages on scheduled basis through
extension services.
(ii)   As mentioned in the above paragraph, the recruitment of female vets
would need quota, such as 30% of trainees have to be females. This is the
only way female vets can be increased as far as the present situation is
concerned.
(iii)  In the facilitation of credit to poor farmers, and the administration and
supervision of the development fund for village facilities, attention must
be given to the participation of women not only as beneficiaries but as
active decision makers.



- 110 -
Annex 6
Page 5 of 6
(iv)   Efforts must be made to encourage women to participate in the training
programs to educate the poor farmers on privatized veterinary services.
(b)   Hydrology
(i)   The strengthening of village development committees (VDC's) who are
the main controllers of irrigation water management and maintenance in
the village level, can be achieved through community development
facilitated by the CD workers in coordination with provincial Hydrology
office.
(ii)   Gender orientation training can be provided to the village chiefs to make
them more aware of the constraints faced by female farmers and to avoid
building in unintended barriers to access in village services, such as
irrigation water.
(c)   Agronomy
(i)    Women farmers must be included in the Farmer Field School (FFS) which
is an approach to Integrated Pest Management (IPM) developed by FAO.
A quota of at least 30% will be reasonable.
(ii)   Efforts must be made in encouraging women farmers to participate in
educational training programs such as fertilizer administration and
application. The production of audio-visual materials and other visual
literature to cater to women farmers who can not read and write, can be
coordinated through the extension services. (The MAFF Extension Office
with funding from Australia is planning to build a new building at the
MAFF grounds, for purposes of producing media and audio-visual
extension materials and videos.
(d)   HRM/HRD
(i)   In the recruitment of trainees in this component, there needs to be a quota
for women, in similar manner as the quota for village vets trainees under
the livestock component. The exact percentage can be determined at
appraisal, after discussion with the government.
(ii)   Under the Training Needs Assessment (TNA), to find out where there is a
shortage of "gap" in knowledge and skills needed for implementing the
project component, women's specific needs must be incorporated in the
research design.
(iii)  Gender orientation must be included in the specialized training required
before Training Coordinators can undertake training needs assessments
and design training program outlines.



- 111 -                               Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
(iv)   A gender perspective must be incorporated into the development of a
MAFF HRD strategy.
Methodology in the Preparation of this Report:
9.    Field Visits to the proposed project sites (Kompong Thom, Kompong Cham, Prey Veng,
Svay Rieng); meetings with government officials in Phnom Penh and provinces, with
international organizations (1Os) and NGOs; interviews with village people and village chiefs,
occular survey, village scoping, RRA (rapid rural appraisal), farmers' home visits, key
informants, publications and written materials from various sources.



- 112 -
Annex A
APIP GENDER/COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT OVERALL COORDINATOR
(GCDOC)
Job Description
1.    Coordinate gender training to the government officials (Project Steering Committee
(PSC) and Project Management Unit (PMU) staff involved with APIP, and liaise with provincial
as well as district officials for a similar activity, as part of the local training within the APIP
components.
2.    Facilitate services from within the concerned agencies as well as those provided by
NGOs and outside agencies, to reach the rural women farmers.
3.    Coordinate with various ministries, particularly the Secretariat for Women Affairs, and
provincial teams with information, technical assistance, training and advice on the
implementation, management, and assessment of provincial level activities that has gender
concerns.
4.    Supervise, monitor and document the community development activities in the provincial
and village levels.
5.    Draft terms of reference for the provincial community development coordinators and
community development workers, with assistance from the expatriate consultant.
6.    Maintain contacts, interaction and sharing of information with other institutions involved
with gender issues, and translate this interaction to the benefit of women farmers under the APIP.
7.    Ensure that research activities under the APIP incorporate questions addressing women
farmers, to determine their needs and constraints for purposes of program planning (i.e.
departmental training needs assessment).
8.    Work closely with the teams created under the APIP and formulate/design specific sub-
projects within the components at the provincial and village level, in support of gender
awareness and assistance to women farmers.
9.    Ensure that all activities within the APIP appropriately address gender issues.
10.   Prepare progress reports on a regular basis which can be made accessible to visiting
supervision missions.



- 113 -
Annex 7
CAMBODIA
AGRICULTURE PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements (US$ million)
International   National
Competitive   Competitive
Bidding        Bidding         Other          NBF       Total
Buildings & Civil Works                 0.7            1.4           2.3           0.5         4.8
(0.6)          (1.1)         (1.8)        (0.0)        (3.5)
Vehicles                                2.8                                        0.3         3.0
(2.8)                                      (0.0)       (2.8)
Equipment                               2.3            1.2            1.0          0.4         4.9
(2.1)          (1.1)         (0.9)         (0.0)       (4.0)
Agricultural & Lab. Materials                                         1.1          0.7         1.7
(0.7)        (0.0)       (0.7)
Consulting Services & Studies                                        7.7           1.0         8.7
(7.7)        (0.0)       (7.7)
Overseas Training                                                    0.8           0.1         0.9
(0.8)        (0.0)       (0.8)
Local Training                                                       5.3           1.3         6.6
(5.3)        (0.0)       (5.3)
Incremental Operating Expenses                                       3.4           1.1         4.5
(2.3)        (0.0)       (2.3)
TOTAL                                   5.8            2.6          21.4           5.4        35.1
IDA (ITF) financing:                  (5.4)          (2.2)        (19.4)         (0.0)      (27.1)
Totals may not add exactly due to rounding.
"Other" includes international and national shopping, simplified procurement for small works, force account,
consulting services and training. "NBF" not Bank financed
Figures in parenthesis indicate IDA (ITF) financing.
Estimated Disbursement for IDA Credit (US$ million):
1997  1998    1999  2000  2001 2002
Annual                                  2.3   5.7      6.9   5.8    4.3  2.0
Cumulative                              2.3   8.0    14.9  20.7   25.0 27.0



Organizational Structure of Ministry of
Agriculture Forestry and Fisheries
MINISTER
SECRETARY OF STATE
UNDER SECRETARY OF STATE
Aovisor to the Minister                                          Cabine ofMinister
General  lnsdtu(s of  Royal University of                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~General Dep. of
DOP. otRubber        A    ntktuteso c       RAglune                 Director General                            General Inspection     Hydrauic Hydro A
Plantadon                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Meteorology
V.p. of Personnef isheiesDep. of Plannn                                                                                  Admfnlstrattve               Dep. of AdmnVnstratlon
AdRs n n                p    sFinance L                                                           Cooporation pnspection                                    Planning Finance
Dep. of Heelth Social                                                                                      Technikal                    Dep. of Research   |
Dep. of Planning        and Educatio                             Dep. of Personnel                                              Inspection                     and extension 
Inance A Cooperaton
Camboda Rubber                                                                                                                          Dep. of Water
Research Institute                                                                                                                      Management
Dep. of Engineening
Import Expot Rub          Memot Rubber                                    ADp. ofAgncullural                                       Prak Leap
Comnpany               Comnpany                            eFp. fAfclue                    Engineering                    Agriculture CoEege
Choup Rubber                                                                                                                                                Dep. of Hydrology
Company            Boeung Ket Rubbe                            Dep. of Forestry         Dep. of Technics                   Kompong Chain
Comnpany                                    Klldlfe                Economics &                     Agriculture Cojege
Chamnkar Andoung     l   SnualVRubber                                                         Dep. of Land                                                   Dep. of Meteorology
_Rubber Company         CSnupal y _b                               Dep. of Fisheries        Development and
Management
Krek Rubber        Ratanak Kry Rubber                         Dap. of Annmal Heelth      AgriculturalMaterial
Company                Company                                  and Production             Company
Director of Pfrovincal Agriculu re,Forestry and Fsheries           PhnomPenh, 8th   February 1996
Technicl     ces
Chief of Distrdc of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries



r104 THILN                                   Y r   A EOPLE'g/DEM. REP.            X                          O I 
,   THAILAND       ,!                     Xi                  t_  j          ~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURE PRODUCTIVITY
_t-t*'    ~~   7.    /  \  tw           r:v_//   t^.\  ov    ,_.                         IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
t ,bh ,! n- ......   q   O     1 997-2001
'1,,?4. ,<   PREAH                                                                                                  --tr/FtS,,_ PROVINCT ES WHPRJECT
X  \;       4      ~~~~~~~~SIEM REAP                                                                        1'. Qi 4    -S V W     > <;NhgCUWRCiCE
>   z  _><  \ M onebor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5T                                                                         0          /,   *OSELECrED CTfES
t  BATrAM:=\0  t'  Torlle  X  X   f   g       ) 8    ta   1            >       MONDULARI    \                    - - RNDARIES~~~~~~~~RTANAIRIPROnNCECAPTAL
Si'                                                                                  14   g r!i  t   E o    
>   <.    \       oh  v g        z  > 7?      -      <                                  / / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ x  2    ,ONOLK  - 0FERYCHINANG
IATT MBAN               So       K/OMPON         r  ,KNA    , VEGW\                V~1\,                                             --._ PRO\,NC BOUNARIE
ro,/d   \   \  . 1   A -   XTJ           Xi                      a  kA                         iL  < i       . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ d - ~~NTENAIOAL OUDAIE
A~~y       I(m.                    i                 ^7rRR 
PURSAT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JN 9









IMAGING
Report No.: 15984    15984   KH
Type:     SAR



