Report No. PIC3053
Project Name                        Cambodia-Agriculture Productivity...
Improvement
Region                              East Asia and Pacific
Sector                              Agriculture
Project ID                          KHPA4033
Borrower                            Kingdom of Cambodia
Implementing Agency                 Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
Fisheries
Estimated Project Cost              US$35.1 million
Date PID Revised                    September 24, 1996
Appraisal Completed                 June , 1996
Expected Date of Approval           October 29, 1996
Country Background
1.   With an estimated 1995 population of about 10 million and GNP per
capita of $260, Cambodia is one of the poorest nations in the world. In
contrast to some of its neighbors with dynamic and fast growing
economies, the country is still recovering from years of war and
isolation, when much of its physical and economic infrastructure was
destroyed. Following a period (1979-1988) of aost exclusive assistance
from the former communist bloc, the Paris Peace Accords of October 1991
opened up the country to wider rehabilitation assistance by bilateral
and multilateral donors as well as by international non-government
organizations (NGOs). The Paris Accords also paved the way for national
elections held under the aegis of the United Nations Transitional
Authority of Cambodia (UNTAC), cuinating in the formation of a coalition
Royal Government at the end of October 1993.
2.   The new Government has embarked, with the support of the
international community, on a comprehensive medium-term program of
macroeconomic stabilization that would help Cambodia successfully
complete its reorientation towards a free market economy. Major policy
interventions have been directed at bringing down the budget deficit and
rate of inflation, at raising tax revenues and improving tax
administration, and reforming the monetary sector. These policies have
started to yield results, notably with the rate of inflation falling to
an estimated 3.5 percent in 1995 as compared to triple-digit figures in
early 1993.
Sector Background
3.   The development of agriculture, always a key sector due to the
predominance of the rural population and its contribution to the
national economy, will be crucial in helping the country meet the
numerous challenges that it faces. Amongst these are the need to feed a
population that, with its present growth rate of about 3t p.a., may



double in years, and the necessity to contain insupportable rates of
rural-urban migration by productively absorbing in the rural economy a
young population (about half are under 15 years of age). Another
critical challenge is to progressively rebuild the Government's capacity
to plan, formulate and execute agriculture and rural development
programs, and so reduce its present heavy reliance on international
technical assistance and the work of foreign NGOs.
4.   The vast majority of Cambodian households continue to depend on
agriculture and related subsectors of livestock, fisheries and forestry
for their living. There are estimated to be about one million farming
households of which a substantial minority, perhaps 35%, are headed by
women. Agriculture constitutes half of Cambodia's GDP and employs about
75% of the labor force. Crops, grown both for food and for other
products such as rubber, account for roughly 30% of GDP, livestock
raising for another 15%, fishing for 4 to 5%, and forestry for 1 to 2%.
Rice is far the most important crop, grown on over 90% of the cropped
area and accounting for one-third of the total value of agricultural
production; rice, vegetables, fish and some meat are the staples of the
Cambodian diet. Rubber and timber are the most important export
commodities, recently comprising 759 of total recorded exports; but
small quantities of other agricultural products, including live cattle,
rice, fruits and fish, are also traded with neighboring countries.
5.    Agriculture research, planning and development, including that of
the livestock, forestry and fishery subsectors, as well as management of
water resources for all agricultural uses, is under the responsibility
of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry & Fisheries (MAFF) which is
organized on the basis of seven technical departments which control
their own staff in the provinces, with a total of about 12,000
employees. Although many of these staff have useful training and/or work
experience from earlier years, the Ministry does not presently have the
budget or responsibility for implementing major projects, apart from
irrigation rehabilitation works funded by the ADB under its Emergency
Rehabilitation Project (ERP). All agricultural research is presently
being done under externally funded projects, for rice notably by the
International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) under a project funded by
Australia. France plans to support the re-establishment of a research
institute for rubber (IRCC). Responsibility for coordinating rural
development activities lies with the Ministry of Rural Development
(MRD), which now has about 1,200 employees and is involved in organizing
rural water supply, rural roads, rural credit, village health and
community development programs, often in collaboration with projects
started by NGOs and international organizations. Important decisions by
the Government affecting the relative roles and responsibilities of
these and other agencies operating in the rural sector are increasingly
being taken by a Council for Agriculture and Rural Development (CARD) on
which all agencies concerned are represented under the chairmanship of
the Second Prime Minister. The CARD is the Government's overall policy
coordinating body for agriculture and rural development.
Project Objectives
6.        Recognizing the importance of the agriculture sector for
Cambodia's development, the objective of the project would be to carry
out a coordinated program through MAFF to bring about sustainable
- 2 -



improvements in agricultural productivity and rural incomes. This would
be achieved through a selective program of activities covering the main
agricultural subsectors of rice and other crop production, livestock and
fisheries, comprising essential knowledge acquisition, technology
testing and adaptation, field development activities, essential
rehabilitation investments, and a major effort in retraining and human
resource management in MAFF. The sum total of these investments should
lead by project completion to the building of substantial capacity in
MAFF to plan, coordinate and implement successful development programs
with the participation of the local populations concerned.
Project Description
7.   The project would comprise components addressing priority
development needs of five of the Ministry's operations departments,
three components at the Ministry level -- establishing a training and
personnel management capability, strengthening the planning and
statistics functions, and strengthening of selected provincial
departments of agriculture -- and establishment of a project management
unit (PMU) within the Ministry to manage the project. Organization of
components by the responsible department has been adopted to facilitate
preparation and management of the project; in practice there will be
substantial linkage, both at headquarters and in the field, between the
various components. Project components would be as follows:
Agronomy, Seeds & Plant Protection
8.   The component is aimed at strengthening the capacity of the
Department of Agronomy (DOA) to develop appropriate technologies and
formulate technical recommendations to farmers for improving crop
production and productivity, with a view to achieving food security and
sustainability and raising farmers' incomes. The component does not
seek to develop DOA's capacity to undertake research per se, but rather
to fill the critical gap between research and extension. It aims to
provide DOA with the capacity to: (i) coordinate agricultural research
effectively, to ensure that research programs on crop technology are
formulated in accordance with the country's priorities; (ii) collect and
analyze regional and local data on the main factors of production, with
a view to identifying constraints and improving the base of technical
knowledge that supports agricultural policy making; (iii) test
technologies developed by research with a view to formulating suitable
recommendations to farmers; (iv) lay the basis for modern seed industry
in Cambodia capable of supplying farmers with higher yielding and better
quality seed for rice and other food crops; (v) promote appropriate
farming practices to ensure the sustainability of natural resources and
protect the natural environment and the health of farming families from
the increasing use of dangerous pesticides by educating them in
integrated pest management (IPM) and other safer methods of pest
control; and (vi) provide technical support to agricultural extension
workers and staff of the provincial agriculture services;
9.   The DOA component would consist of a (a) Capacity Building sub-
component and five specific technical sub-components: (b) Soil Fertility
Management and Conservation, (c) Farming Systems and Crop
Diversification, (d) Seed Production, (e) Plant Protection and (f)
-3 -



Integrated Pest Management (IPM). Each sub-component would include some
technical assistance support and the necessary funding for training
national staff, supplying equipment, construction or rehabilitation of
selected infrastructure and incremental operating expenditures.
Technical assistance for subcomponents (c) and (f) would be provided
respectively by CIRAD (France) and the FAO Regional IPM Unit based in
Manila. The cost of these subcomponents amounts to 29t of the total cost
of the project.
Animal Health & Production
10. All types of livestock in Cambodia suffer from very high morbidity
and mortality rates, due to the inability of Government services or the
private sector to deliver basic animal health services, for which there
exists cost-effective technology and demand from farmers. This component
of the project, to be implemented by the Department of Animal Health and
Production (DAHP), would build on the experience of successful NGO
livestock programs and also a small pilot scheme started under the ERP.
There would be three subcomponents: (a) Disease Control and Management,
which would improve the DAHP central support services for animal disease
diagnosis and vaccine production; (b) a Basic Animal Health program in
four provinces (Kompong Cham, Kratie, Prey Veng, Svay Rieng) where
livestock raising is particularly important for the local economy; and
(c) Promotion of Animal Production through an extension program for
improved animal husbandry and nutrition. The cost of the component as a
whole, which would be financed by IFAD, is estimated at $4.9 million, or
15t of the total project cost.
Agricultural Hydraulics
11. The agricultural hydraulics component of the project is intended to
strengthen the General Department of Irrigation, Hydrology & Meteorology
(GDIHM) skills, knowledge, equipment and policy framework to function
effectively as the MAFF department responsible for managing water for
agricultural uses, and also as the only government agency with the
mandate to plan the use of water resources across sectoral and local
boundaries. The component would consist of four subcomponents: (a) GDIHM
Capacity Building; (b) Hydrology Information System Development; (c)
Small Scale Agricultural Hydraulics (irrigation and flood control); and
(d) Medium Scale Agricultural Hydraulics. The four subcomponents are
designed integrally, with two complementary objectives in mind: to help
strengthen the technical, human and physical resources of the GDIHM; and
to improve farmer incomes and food security in selected pilot provinces
through provision of water for supplementary irrigation as well as
fishing, livestock and domestic use. The institution building aspects,
such as assistance for revising the laws relating to water rights and
usage, would be coordinated closely with other initiatives in the
sector, especially the technical working group on water resource issues
being supported by the UNDP/DDSMS. Cost of this component would be 17t
of the total project cost.
Fisheries
12. The overall objective of this component, to be implemented by the
Department of Fisheries (DOF), is to improve Cambodians' livelihood and
-4 -



nutrition by sustaining the yield of freshwater fisheries through better
management of the capture fishery and increasing the production of
fingerlings for fish rearing. There would be three subcomponents: (a)
fisheries conservation and management, comprising demarcation of fish
sanctuaries in the Tonle Sap, habitat improvement, equipping the DOF
fisheries inspection units for more effective regulation enforcement,
and related information and training activities; (b) rehabilitation of
a freshwater fisheries research station at Chriang Chamres on the Tonle
Sap River in order to improve the production and supply of fingerlings
of indigenous species for local fish raising enterprises; and (c) DOF
capacity building, for which training and short term technical
assistance would be supplied in policy, finance and administration,
human resource development, fisheries law and statistics. This component
would comprise 9t of the total project cost.
Smallholder Rubber Research
13. The component, to be implemented by the Department of Rubber
Production (DGPH), is designed to obtain the technical data needed to
confirm the country's suitability for smallholder rubber development,
through formulation and implementation of a smallholder rubber research
program and training of national research scientists and technicians.
The project would comprise technical assistance of a senior rubber
research specialist for five years (to be provided by CIRAD, France),
vehicles, office and laboratory equipment, and related operating
expenses. The costs are estimated at 5t of the total project.
MAFF Strengthening
14. These three components are situated organizationally at Ministry
level and would comprise 19t of the cost of the project:
(a)  Human Resource Development & Management (HRDM): Technical
assistance would be provided to establish and train a Human
Resource Development (HRD) Unit reporting to the Ministry's
Director General which would establish a MAFF personnel data
base, train HRD managers in the MAFF and departmental
personnel departments, carry out organizational and job
analyses, carry out training needs assessments, and prepare
training plans for each department and unit of the Ministry
involved in the project. This work would provide the
information and in-house skills needed to support an eventual
reorganization of the Ministry as well as an expansion and
more effective use of training.
(b) Planning & Statistics: These two subcomponents, implemented by
the Ministry's Department of Planning, Statistics &
International Cooperation (DPSIC) would provide technical
assistance (short and long term), staff training (local and
overseas), vehicles, equipment and operating budgets needed to
build the capacity of the planning and statistics offices of
DPSIC to meet the Ministry's needs for basic agricultural
statistics and project and program level policy and investment
planning.
(c) Support to Provincial Departments of Agriculture: The
- 5 -



component would provide for rehabilitation of buildings,
office equipment, training, workshops and incremental
operating expenses for five MAFF provincial offices to support
the project's field activities.
Project Implementation
15. To help implement the project a Project Management Unit (PMU) would
be created within MAFF, reporting to the Chairman of the Project
Steering Committee. The PMU would be headed by a senior official, of the
level of Under Secretary of State, and staffed by MAFF officials
supported by long- and short-term technical assistance, including a
Senior Project Management Advisor (the project CTA); a Procurement
Specialist; a Finance and Administration Specialist; and short term
consultants for establishing monitoring and evaluation systems and
supervising buildings/civil works. The cost of the PMU would be 6% of
the total project cost.
Special Emphases of the Project
16. The project would focus on two, interlinked objectives: human
resource development and institutional capacity building; and rural
income growth and poverty reduction, through agricultural productivity
improvements. In the process, the project would benefit women farmers
and the environment.
Project Benefits
17. Direct beneficiaries of the project include Cambodian agricultural
staff who would benefit from intensive training and experience of the
implementation of well-resourced, well-designed work programs which
contribute to a coherent integrated sectoral program. However, the
ultimate beneficiaries are rural communities reached by the project who
depend on agriculture and fishing for their livelihoods.
18.       Rural communities would benefit economically and financially
through the adoption of appropriate, sustainable and financially
profitable agronomic technology and low-cost measures for protecting
animal health. Additional benefits would be obtained from improved water
storage and drainage for increased production of rice and other crops,
and from higher and sustained levels of production from freshwater fish
capture and aquaculture, and (later on) from development of smallholder
rubber.
Project Sustainability
19. Measures to promote project long-term sustainability, notably
through the planned transfer of knowledge and responsibilities from TA
to Cambodian counterparts, and through systematic monitoring and
evaluation of performance and results, are built into the project
design. However, the full sustained benefit of the project will partly
depend on whether human resource capacity developed in MAFF continues
serving the needs of agricultural communities. This will partly depend
on factors outside the scope of the project, such as the planned reform
of the civil service and government pay scales, maintenance of political
stability, and funding constraints on government budgets. Therefore, the
- 6 -



sustainability and development impact of this and other MAFF development
programs will depend upon the extent to which these wider objectives are
met.
Environmental sustainability of agriculture would be promoted through
farmer training in integrated pest management, on-farm trials and
demonstration of improved soil conservation methods, reduction in
livestock disease and mortality, strengthened water resource planning
and use in irrigation, and strengthened management and conservation of
fishery resources.
Project Financing
20. The estimated project cost of US$35.1 million equivalent would be
financed by:
(a) a local contribution of $3.35 million equivalent from the
Government of Cambodia, financing about 10t of total project
cost;
(b) a proposed IDA (Interim Fund) Credit of SDR 18.8 million
(equivalent to about US$27.0 million), on IDA terms,
financing about 77T of total project cost; and
(c) an IFAD Loan of SDR 3.3 million (equivalent to about US$ 4.75
million), financing the animal health and production component
of the project and covering about 14t of total project cost.
The proposed IDA Credit would be funded under the Interim Trust Fund
(ITF) administered by IDA and subject to its special provisions
regarding eligibility for procurement. These provisions would not,
however, affect the IFAD Loan, financing the animal health and
production component of the Project.
Contact Point:       H.E. Chan Tong Yves
Under Secretary of State
MAFF/PPU
Boulevard Norodom
Phnom Penh, Cambodia
FAX: 855 15 911731
TEL: 855 15 913080
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending
September 27, 1996.
-7-



