                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                              Report No:38161




                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (IF-N0110 COFN-03740 TF-29737)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 18.8 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA

                                                FOR THE

                     AGRICULTURE PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                                            December 8, 2006




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective October 6, 2006)

                                  Currency Unit = Riel
                                              R1 = US$ 0.000241
                                           US$ 1 = R4,150

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1    December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB      Asian Development Bank
AFD      Agence Française de Développement
APIP     Agriculture Productivity Development Project
ASEAN    Association of Southeast Asian Nations
CARDI    Cambodian Agricultural Research and Development Institute
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CIAT     International Center for Tropical Agriculture
CIRAD    Centre de Coopération Internationale en Recherche Agronomique pour le
         Développement
DAALI    Department of Agronomy and Agricultural Land Improvement
DAFF     Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (provincial-level)
DAHP     Department of Animal Health and Production
DANIDA   Danish International Development Association
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DGPH     Direction Générale des Plantations d'Hévéas
DOA      Department of Agronomy
DOF      Department of Fisheries
DPSIC    Department of Planning, Statistics and International Cooperation
EIRR     Economic Internal Rate of return
ERP      Emergency Rehabilitation Project
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization (of the United Nations)
FAO-CP   FAO-World Bank Co-operative Program
GDIHM    General Directorate of Irrigation and Hydro-Meteorology
GIS      Geographic Information System
GPS      Global Positioning System
HPAI     Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza
HRD      Human Resources Department
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICM      Integrated Crop Management
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
IFAD     International Fund for Agricultural Development
INT      Department of Institutional Integrity
IPM      Integrated Pest Management
IRCC     Institut de Recherche sur le Caoutchouc au Cambodge
ITF      Interim Trust Fund
JICA     Japan International Cooperation Agency
KPI      Key Performance Indicators
MAFF     Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
MEF      Ministry of Economy and Finance

MOH      Ministry of Health
MOWRAM   Ministry of Water Resources and Meteorology
MRD      Ministry of Rural Development
MRL      Maximum Residual Levels
MTR      Mid-term Review
NAHPIC   National Animal Health and Production Investigation Center
NAHPIS   National Animal Health and Production Information System
NPV      Net Present Value
NSDP     National Social Development Plan
OIE      Office International des Epizooties (World Animal Health Organization)
NGO      Non-governmental Organization
PDO      Project Development Objective
PHRD     Policy and Human Resource Development
PMU      Project Management Unit
PSC      Project Steering Committee
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
UN       United Nations
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
VAH      Village Animal Heath
WHO      World Health Organization
WTO      World Trade Organization




                                Vice President:     James Adams, EAPVP
                              Country Director      Ian Porter, EACTF
                               Sector Manager       Hoonae Kim, EASRD
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Steven Oliver, EASRD

                                KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA


             AGRICULTURE PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            24
6. Sustainability                                                                26
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 26
8. Lessons Learned                                                               29
9. Partner Comments                                                              30
10. Additional Information                                                       30
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             31
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             38
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             40
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             43
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                44
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            45
Annex 8. Compliance with DCA Conditions                                          46
Annex 9. Summary of the Borrower's Completion Report                             48
Annex 10. Summary of the IFAD Completion Report                                  74

Project ID: P004033                                                  Project Name: KH-AGRICULTURAL
                                                                     PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT
Team Leader: Steven William Oliver                                   TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 8, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: KH-AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY                             L/C/TF Number: IF-N0110; COFN-03740;
                            IMPROVEMENT                                                              TF-29737
   Country/Department: CAMBODIA                                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (85%); Agricultural extension and research (9%); General
                            agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (5%); Sub-national government administration (1%)
                  Theme: Other rural development (P); Nutrition and food security (P); Technology diffusion (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/25/1995                                     Effective: 06/20/1997                06/20/1997
     Appraisal: 05/20/1996                                         MTR: 06/30/2000                  06/08/2001
      Approval: 02/28/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF CAMBODIA/MAFF
                      Other Partners:      The International Fund for Agricultural Development

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 James Adamas                                   Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Ian C. Porter                                  Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Sector Director:                Christian Delvoie                              Jeffrey Gutman
Team Leader at ICR:             Steven Oliver                                  Christopher Redfern
ICR Primary Author:             Steven Oliver; Kariyan Mei
                                (FAO-WB Cooperative
                                Programme)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:


3.1.1     The objective of the Agriculture Productivity Improvement Project (APIP) defined in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) was the achievement of " ... the sustainable and broad-based improvement of
smallholder agricultural productivity as a means to (achieve) improved food security and increased rural
incomes.". However, the objective of the project defined in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) had
a completely different formulation: " ... to assist the Borrower to implement ... a coordinated national
program to help improve the quantity and quality of the technical, human and physical resources
required to promote sustainable agricultural development improvements throughout the Borrower's
territory." in which the concept of productivity is not mentioned.

3.1.2     It is unusual to see such a wide discrepancy between the definitions of the project's objective in
these two key documents. The objective described in the DCA (which appears to have been derived from
paragraph 2.5 of the SAR - and which should properly have been part of the Project Description) refers to
the project as being in support of a "coordinated national program". However, the SAR clearly describes
the "coordinated five-year program" as being the project itself. In addition, less than 25 percent of the
project can be considered to have been of national coverage; more than 75 percent of projected
expenditures were for activities at the field level in specific and limited areas of Cambodia.

3.1.3     The objective defined in the SAR was clearly expressed, but it was unrealistic to expect that the
interventions proposed under the project would have the effect of raising the agricultural productivity of
small farmers in Cambodia over a broad base. The SAR does not define "productivity", but it is clear from
the context that it refers to " ... productivity in relation to farming systems ..." defined as " ... the degree to
which a system uses its ecological and economic niche - how far output is below the exploitative limit ..."
[1] as opposed to a narrow definition of productivity in terms of output as a function of a unit of a given
input.

3.1.4     The APIP's components were designed to act on some of the key determinants of this
broadly-defined agricultural productivity but not on others (for example, the subjects of credit, land tenure
and marketing are not mentioned). Although the objective was clearly stated in terms of increasing
productivity, the SAR in practice placed most of its emphasis on the creation of institutional capacity in the
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF) to support sustainable agricultural development;
for example, in establishing the Performance Indicators for the project, the SAR stated that "The main
impact indicator for the project as a whole is a measurable increase in the capacity within MAFF to
fulfill its role and responsibilities.". The other defined "impact" indicators were, in fact, output indicators,
and the only impact indicator that related to any measure of productivity was that of livestock mortality.

3.1.5     The project's objective was, therefore, not well defined; the use of the logical framework or the
results-based framework in project design, which at the time of preparation were not yet in widespread use
in the Bank, might well have identified the aim of raising agricultural productivity as an overall goal of
agricultural and rural development in general, the achievement of which would require a wide range of
projects and interventions over a long period. The objectives of this project could then have been specified
in more concrete and measurable terms.

3.1.6       The achievement of the objective, however, was (and remains) important for the rural sector, and
therefore for Cambodia, and the objective was fully consistent with the operative Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) dated January 28, 1997. The government's objectives of formulating and implementing



                                                         - 2 -

projects for agricultural and rural development to achieve peace and security in the countryside were
reflected in the CAS, and the project supported the CAS strategic objectives of " ... enhancing rural
development and natural resource management ..." and " ... improving the human resource base and
reducing poverty ...".

3.1.7     Furthermore, the project remained consistent with the objectives of subsequent CASs (Report No.
20077-KH of February 7, 2000 and Report No. 32118-KH of April 18, 2005) which have emphasized the
basic elements of sustainable development and poverty reduction. The objective of the project was,
however, very qualitative and its achievement required (and continues to require) a wide range of inputs
and activities beyond those of the project. The project was demanding to the implementing agencies; it
sought to revitalize the MAFF and rebuild its capacity but it was not clear how the project interventions
were to be made permanent. By any standards, it was a complex and risky operation, but at the same time
it was very responsive to the Borrower's circumstances and development priorities.

3.1.8    It is important to understand the initial conditions that existed in Cambodia in the early- and
mid-1990s and that helped to shape the project. The Peace Accord signed in October 1991 brought to a
close more than twenty years of conflict, enormous loss of life and destruction. The government was faced
with the task of rebuilding the country and creating economic growth to begin to relieve poverty in one of
the world's poorest nations. The legacy of the war and Cambodia's self-imposed isolation was one of
serious damage to its physical, social and economic infrastructure. Agriculture was seen as having a key
role in the long-term recovery process, but in common with other sectors " ... institutional constraints and
the lack of suitably qualified personnel at the operational level are causing rehabilitation programs to
proceed more slowly than the government had expected." [2] . The SAR stated that a critical challenge
was, therefore, to rebuild the government's capacity to plan, formulate and implement agricultural and rural
development projects. As a result, the project was necessarily complex in the sense that impacts were
needed in multiple locations and on many fronts.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1    The objective remained unchanged throughout the life of the project. At the Mid-Term Review
(MTR) in mid-2001, the objective and the various statements of "component objectives", etc. were analyzed
to determine a sectoral goal, a project development objective (PDO) and outputs in a logical framework
analysis. The defined sector goal became " ... improved food security and increased rural incomes... " and
the PDO remained " ... the sustainable and broad-based improvement of smallholder agriculture
productivity ... ".


3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1    The project as originally designed consisted of a coordinated five-year program (with Credit
Effectiveness in June 1997 and an original Closing Date in June 2002) to improve the quantity and quality
of technical, human and physical resources available to the MAFF and (later) the Ministry of Water
Resources and Meteorology (MOWRAM) to promote sustainable agricultural development. This was to
be achieved via two main initiatives. The first comprised activities grouped by main agricultural
sub-sectors and including knowledge acquisition; the testing, adaptation and demonstration of technology;
field development activities and priority investments; and in three sub-sectors (seeds, water, and livestock)
the preparation of development strategies. The second was a major effort to develop both the human
resource base and the physical infrastructure and equipment of MAFF.




                                                      - 3 -

3.3.2    The investment activities are referred to in several places in the SAR as "pilot" investments, but
there is no mechanism or process specified for their eventual review, evaluation or scaling-up.

3.3.3     The SAR also emphasized that, although aggregate output had recovered strongly since the end of
hostilities, levels of productivity were low compared to neighboring countries and that the opportunities for
raising them through improved technology and other means were substantial. Crop yields, especially of
rice, also varied between agro-ecological zones and were unpredictable between years. The factors causing
yield uncertainty and constraining productivity growth were numerous, and included the low proportion of
the cropped area under irrigation, poor water control on often badly-engineered irrigation schemes, highly
variable soil conditions, the low availability and use of modern purchased inputs, and a generalized low
resilience of production systems to flooding, drought, pests and diseases. The project was designed to
operate on some of the key determinants of smallholder agricultural productivity. In practice, these were
necessary but not sufficient conditions to make an overall impact on agricultural productivity.

3.3.4    The project had nine components and eighteen sub-components. Five components were designed to
be implemented by technical departments of MAFF, three were to be implemented at Ministry level, and
one component was to create the Project Management Unit (PMU) within the MAFF. The costs shown
here are those projected at appraisal and included price and physical contingency provisions.

3.3.5    The Agronomy, Seeds and Plant Protection Component (estimated cost at appraisal US$10.184
million, 29.0 percent of the total project cost). The project's largest component was designed to strengthen
the Department of Agronomy (DOA), which was later to become the Department of Agronomy and
Agricultural Land Improvement (DAALI), to develop appropriate technology packages for farmers to
improve rice and other annual crop production. It aimed to provide DOA with the capacity: (a) to
coordinate agricultural research in line with the country's priorities; (b) to collect and analyze regional and
local data on the factors of production, in order to identify constraints and support policy making; (c) to
test the technology results of research and make recommendations to farmers; (d) to lay the basis for a
modern seed industry and a better-yielding, high-quality seed supply; (e) to promote the adoption of
integrated pest management (IPM) and other safe means of pest control in a framework of appropriate
farming practices; and (f) to provide technical support to agricultural extension at the provincial level.

3.3.6    The component had six sub-components: (a) Technical Coordination and Capacity Building
(US$1.59 million); (b) Soil Fertility Management and Conservation (US$1.053 million); (c) Farming
Systems and Crop Diversification (US$0.989 million); (d) Seed Production Program (US$3.701 million);
(e) Plant Protection Service Establishment (US$1.203 million); and (f) Integrated Pest Management
(US$1.649 million).

3.3.7    The Animal Health and Production Component (estimated cost at appraisal US$5.39 million,
15.4 percent of the total project cost). At the time of project design, high morbidity and mortality rates
affected all livestock despite the existence of cost-effective technology and an unmet demand from farmers
because of a lack of capacity in both the public and private sectors to deliver basic animal health services.
The component was to be implemented by the Department of Animal Health and Production (DAHP) and
comprised three sub-components: (a) Disease Control and Management (US$2.684 million) to improve
DAHP's central support for disease diagnosis and vaccine production; (b) a Basic Animal Health Program
in four provinces (US$2.478 million); and (c) the Promotion of Animal Production to improve husbandry
and nutrition (US$0.228 million). This component was prepared by the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) in 1994 and, later, expanded and up-dated by a veterinarian consultant funded by the
Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency. The component was financed by IFAD, and the



                                                       - 4 -

government agreed to adopt a national plan (satisfactory to both IFAD and IDA) for training, licensing and
registering "village vets" (village veterinarians or village animal health workers) whose presence in the four
provinces was essential to the successful implementation of sub-component (b).

3.3.8    The Agricultural Hydraulics Component (estimated cost at appraisal US$5.849 million, 16.7
percent of the total project cost). The component was designed to provide the General Department of
Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology (GDIHM) with the basic skills and knowledge to carry out its
mandate to manage water for agricultural use and to plan the use of water resources across sectoral and
local boundaries. The component contained four sub-components: (a) Capacity Building in the GDIHM
(US$0.748 million); (b) Hydrology Information System Development (US$1.132 million); (c) Small-scale
Agricultural Hydraulics (US$2.992 million); and (d) Medium-Scale Agricultural Hydraulics (US$0.978
million).

3.3.9    The Fisheries Component (estimated cost at appraisal US$3.152 million, 9.0 percent of the total
project cost). The component was to be implemented by the Department of Fisheries (DOF) and was
designed to improve livelihoods and human nutrition by sustaining yields through better management of
capture fisheries and increasing the production of fingerlings for fish production. The component included
three sub-components: (a) Fisheries Conservation and Management (US$1.54 million) to include the
demarcation of fish sanctuaries in the Tonle Sap, habitat improvement, improvement of the enforcement of
regulations, and information and training activities: (b) support for Freshwater Fisheries Research
(US$1.037 million) via the rehabilitation of the Chriang Chamres research station on Tonle Sap to improve
and increase the supply of fingerlings of indigenous species for local fish-raising enterprises; and (c)
Capacity Building of the DOF (US$0.575 million) through training and technical assistance for
improvements in policy-setting, finance and administration, human resource development, fisheries law and
statistics.

3.3.10   The Smallholder Rubber Research Component (estimated cost at appraisal US$1.925 million,
5.5 percent of the total project cost). The component was to be implemented by the Department of Rubber
Production (Direction Générale des Plantations d'Hévéas ­ DGPH) and comprised a smallholder rubber
research program and the training of national research scientists and technicians. Technical assistance was
to be provided by the Centre de Coopération Internationale en Recherche Agronomique pour le
Développement (CIRAD) via a long-term contract with a senior rubber research specialist.

3.3.11   Three components were placed at Ministry level for the strengthening of MAFF. These were:

The Human Resources Management Component (estimated cost at appraisal US$1.882 million, 5.4
percent of the total project cost). Technical assistance would help to establish a Human Resource
Management Unit attached to the Department of Personnel which would introduce modern methods of
personnel management to support the reorganization of MAFF and an increase in training.

The Support to Provincial Departments of Agriculture Component (estimated cost at appraisal
US$0.442 million, 1.3 percent of the total project cost). The component would include the rehabilitation of
buildings, the supply of equipment and training, and incremental operating expenses for five MAFF
provincial offices to support field activities.

The Strengthening of Planning and Statistics Component (estimated cost at appraisal US$ 3.108
million, 8.9 percent of the total project cost). Two sub-components to be implemented by the Department
of Planning, Statistics and International Cooperation (DPSIC) would provide technical assistance, training,



                                                       - 5 -

equipment and operating costs in two sub-components: (a) Agricultural Policy and Planning Capacity
Building (US$0.993 million); and (b) Agricultural Statistics System Establishment (US$2.114 million).

3.3.12   The Project Management Unit (estimated cost at appraisal US$3.173 million, 9.0 percent of the
total project cost). The PMU was designed to coordinate the budgets and implementation plans of all the
other components and ensure the auditing, monitoring, evaluation and progress reporting. The PMU was
designed to report to the Secretary of State for Agriculture who would chair the Project Steering Committee
(PSC).

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1    At the MTR in June 2001, the progress achieved in implementation of individual components and
sub-components ranged from highly unsatisfactory (i.e., a complete lack of progress) to highly satisfactory.
Between appraisal in mid-1996 and the MTR, the Special Drawing Right (SDR), in which both the Interim
Trust Fund (ITF) Credit from the International Development Association (IDA) and the IFAD loan were
denominated, declined in value from US$1.44 to US$1.25. At that point, and taking into account the funds
already disbursed, the Credit had been reduced from the equivalent of US$27.0 million to US$23.7 million
and the IFAD loan from US$4.7 million to US$4.2 million. Revised cost estimates for the individual
components and sub-components were made, reflecting the slow initial pace of implementation and the
improvements recognized by the MTR, with actual adjustments in the scope of some sub-components; the
adjusted costs are shown in Annex 2. At the MTR, several activities under other components were grouped
together to form an Agricultural Education component, with the proposed adjustment that it should
implement a national strategy.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1     The consideration of the quality of design must take into account the "initial conditions" that
obtained in the early 1990s when the project was identified and prepared. Following two decades of
conflict, with the destruction of infrastructure and records and the loss of human life, the public sector's
ability to support agricultural development was in tatters. Against the background of one of the United
Nations' largest deployments in history, emergency efforts were made by bilateral and multilateral agencies
alike to help Cambodia back to its feet. A number of promising agriculture-related activities carried out
under the earlier IDA-supported Emergency Rehabilitation Project formed the basic structure of the
project, to which were added institutional and physical infrastructure activities to support the MAFF.

3.5.2    The Quality at Entry of the project is considered to have been moderately unsatisfactory. The
project was consistent with the objectives of the CAS, and was aligned with the government's priorities of
rural development and poverty alleviation. However, several of the problems encountered with the
implementation of the project can reasonably be attributed to deficiencies in its design; it was too ambitious
(with nine components and eighteen sub-components), its development objective was vague and extremely
difficult to monitor, insufficent attention was given to sustainablity, and recourse was made to a PMU that
duplicated and operated at arm's length from the existing structure of the MAFF.




                                                      - 6 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1    The ratings of the Implementation Status and the degree to which each component and
sub-component contributed to the achievement of the Development Objective are summarized in the
following table. The six-point rating system is used here to capture some of the nuances of individual parts
of the project. (Note that the Principal Performance Ratings in Section 2 are given according to the
four-point rating system.) In general, the conclusions of the ICR as expressed in these ratings agree with or
vary marginally from those of the last supervision mission which referred to the period April - October
2005, with the exception of the IPM sub-component and the Disease Control and Management
sub-component (where the ICR concluded that the achievements were more substantial). The overall
conclusion of this ICR , however, is that the project was "moderately unsatisfactory" in outcome whereas
the final Implementation Status Results report indicated that it was "moderately satisfactory".

                         Component/sub-component                                  Implementation Development
                                                                                      Status      Objective
 Agronomy, Seeds and Plant Protection                                                  MU             MU
  Technical Coordination and Capacity Building                                         MS           MS
  Soil Fertility Management and Conservation                                           MU           MU
  Farming Systems and Crop Diversification                                               U            U
  Seed Production Program                                                                U            U
  Plant Protection Service Establishment                                                S             S
  Integrated Pest Management                                                           HS            HS
 Animal Health and Production Component                                                 S             S
  Disease Control and Management                                                        S             S
  Basic Animal Health Program                                                           S             S
  Promotion of Animal Production                                                        S             S
 Agricultural Hydraulics Component                                                     MS           MS
  Capacity Building in the GDIHM                                                       MS            MS
  Hydrology Information System Development                                              S             S
  Small-Scale Agricultural Hydraulics                                                  MS           MS
  Medium-Scale Agricultural Hydraulics                                                  U             U
 Fisheries Component                                                                   MU           MU
  Fisheries Conservation and Management                                                  U             U
  Support for Freshwater Fisheries Research                                            MS            MS
  Capacity Building of the Department of Fisheries                                     MS           MS
 Smallholder Rubber Research Component                                                 MS              S
 Human Resources Management                                                            MU            MU
 Support to Provincial Departments of Agriculture                                        S             S
 Strengthening of Planning and Statistics                                              MS             MS
  Agricultural Policy and Planning Capacity Building                                   MU             MU
  Agricultural Statistics System Establishment                                            S             S
 Project Management Unit                                                                 S              S
 Overall Project                                                                       MU             MU
  HS - Highly Satisfactory, S - Satisfactory, MS - Moderately Satisfactory,
  MU - Moderately Unsatisfactory, U - Unsatisfactory, HU - Highly Unsatisfactory.




                                                             - 7 -

4.1.2    Significant progress was made by a number of the components and sub-components, whose
outputs have made and continue to make contributions to agricultural development in general and to
improvements in agricultural productivity in specific areas and products. The extent to which the project
achieved its objective is debatable; there is little evidence that any overall increase in agricultural
productivity has been achieved. As described below, the sustainability of the project, defined as "... the
probability of maintaining the achievements generated in relation to its objective ...", is considered to be
"highly unlikely" and thus the overall rating is considered to be "moderately unsatisfactory".

4.1.3    Many of the problems seen in the implementation of the APIP are generic to projects in Cambodia,
and it is likely that an evaluation of the past 10-15 years of development assistance in agriculture would
reveal a number of lessons that transcend individual projects. There has been some criticism of the project
that its structure as defined in the early 1990s became increasingly inappropriate and out-of-date,
particularly as the trend to decentralization of government took shape. In practice, implementation was
significantly delayed and hampered by political events. The MTR took place only two years into
implementation, and with the benefit of hind-sight it is considered that any major re-structuring to
decentralize the project would probably have introduced yet more delay. It is important to note that even
when emphasis is placed on sub-national levels of government a strong center is required, and what was
attempted in the APIP was not inconsistent with gradual efforts at decentralization. It should also be borne
in mind that in the early 1990s the government actively wanted to centralize, given the anarchic and "war
lord"-driven decentralization that had taken place at the expense of the central government's control.

4.1.4    The APIP did considerable work in the preparation of sub-sectoral strategy but there was no
overall vision or strategy (until the publication of the Agriculture Sector Strategic Development Plan
2006-2010 in October 2005). Priorities have not been clear. To some observers concerned about planning
and policy-making in MAFF, it has never been clear how the APIP was supposed to support MAFF in
practice. The APIP was instrumental in creating MAFF physical resources (e.g., buildings and equipment)
where previously there had been little, and in specifying sub-sectoral strategy, policy and legislation which
are all necessary factors to give MAFF the protagonist's role in agricultural development. However, the
drive for institutional reform and the broad vision are missing, in large part because there appears to be a
lack of consensus on the key issues, and therefore the APIP's interventions tended to be piece-meal.


4.2 Outputs by components:


4.2.1    Achievement of Objectives: From its description in the SAR, the project had sector policy,
physical and institutional development objectives but did not have either macro-economic or direct financial
objectives.

(a) In terms of sector policy objectives, the project was expected to result in the preparation of three
sub-sectoral strategy outputs (see paragraph 4.2.2). In practice, much more than this was achieved; five
additional tasks were added at the MTR and were largely achieved.

(b) The physical objectives of the project included physical infrastructure in terms of new and renovated
buildings for MAFF; extensive building, river protection bund, wall, ponds, and fish-feed pelleting plant at
the Bati Fish Seed Production and Research Facility; facilities at the Kbal Koh Vegetable Research Station;
two complete seed production and processing facilities at Chamka Leu and Tuol Sam Rong; and a large
number of small-scale irrigation/drainage structures in Kampong Thom and Kratie provinces. Most of this
was achieved, although, as is noted below under the discussion of individual components, with varied
results.


                                                        - 8 -

(c) The institutional objectives of the project were ambitious and aimed to build MAFF into the lead
player in agricultural development; the project included a major effort in human resource development in
MAFF and MOWRAM which resulted in a large number of trained staff. However, although there has
been some improvement in recent years, the level of civil service salaries is not remotely sufficient to allow
professional or other staff to dedicate themselves full-time to their jobs. As a result, since the project
closed in December 2005 (the PMU had funding to operate until the end of April 2006), many of the staff
trained under the project have been absorbed into the departments of MAF and MOWRAM and others
have taken up, or are seeking, positions in other projects, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and
related activities. The improved institutional status of MAFF and MOWRAM has thus been eroded,
although in some cases the trained staff are taken up elsewhere in the agricultural/rural sector; as a result,
there has been a net gain in human resource capacity in the sector, which gives a positive aspect to the
sustainability of the project's achievements although not in quite the way it was originally intended.

4.2.2     Outputs: The project was designed to produce outputs to achieve: (a) the medium-term
capacity-building objective; and (b) increased agricultural production and incomes. Four categories of
outputs were anticipated in the text of the SAR.

4.2.3     Human Resources: By project completion, a key output in all sub-sectors was expected to be
developed human resources. In MAFF, about 1,000 trained personnel at central and provincial levels
would have achieved technical and managerial competence. Undetermined numbers of staff were expected
to have acquired a wide range of communication and other skills, while staff of the agronomy, livestock and
hydrology departments would have received training in gender awareness.

                           Proposed                                                         Achieved
 1,000 trained personnel in MAFF in technical and managerial In management, 1588 people were trained locally and 33
disciplines                                                      overseas in all disciplines. In Planning/Statistics, 1738 were
                                                                 trained; in Agronomy 2,226; in Animal Health and Production
                                                                 284; in Smallholder Rubber 21. All training courses,
                                                                 workshops, etc. included. The number of duplicate training
                                                                 beneficiaries is not known.
 800 village veterinarians trained and licensed in four          2,800 village veterinarians were trained, of whom 14 percent
provinces                                                        are women
 20,000 farmers trained in new technology
 16,000 farmers trained in IPM                                   20,336 farmers were trained in IPM and related technology.
 500 farmers trained in seed production
 2,000 farmers participated in supervised on-farm field trials   2,400 compost demonstrations and 450 on-farm fertilizer and
                                                                 compost trials were held.




                                                              - 9 -

4.2.4     Physical Outputs: These would include outputs contributing to the capacity-building objective
(e.g., buildings, renovated or newly-constructed, fully functioning and equipped) and those resulting from
sectoral investments.

                           Proposed                                                          Achieved
700 tons per year of improved rice foundation seed produced       324 tons of improved seed in total were produced in 2005.
15,000 tons per year of rice extension seed marketed
2 million doses per year of cattle vaccines                       Privatization specialist concluded that production cost would
                                                                  be higher than import price, and therefore vaccines were
                                                                  acquired outside the country to control disease outbreaks.
2 million fish fry/fingerlings per year                           1.1 million fish fry and 260,000 fingerlings were produced in
[the KPI state that 5 million fish fry and 2 million fingerlings  2005.
would be produced per year]
50 small-scale irrigation schemes (with 136 small-scale water 47 small-scale irrigation structures were completed.
retention and/or drainage structures)


4.2.5     Information for the Future Development of the Sector: By project completion, the project was
expected to have generated important information outputs.

                           Proposed                                                          Achieved
National agricultural statistics system                           This has been established.
Agronomic technology testing and demonstration system             Established
Hydrology information system                                      Established
Crop pest data-base                                               This was carried out under the IPM sub-component.
Public investment program data-base                               No substantial progress was made.
Personnel and job description data-base                           This was designed and installed in the HRD/TM component.
Smallholder rubber research results                               Agronomic data is available for the early plantings.
                                                                  Socio-economic data has been collected but not yet analyzed.
Evaluations of small-scale agricultural hydraulics schemes        This was carried out for a sample of ten schemes from the
                                                                  total of 47 constructed.
Vaccine production privatization study                            Completed in May 2000 with stakeholder consultation.
Training needs assessments                                        This was carried out.
Statistical surveys                                               These were carried out.
Farming systems studies and field trial results                   This was partially completed.
Feasibility study of a medium-scale agricultural hydraulics       This was partially completed. The environmental impact
scheme                                                            assessment and agricultural economic analysis are deficient.
Component monitoring and evaluation reports                       Following the MTR, the M&E system was fully established.


4.2.6     Policy Development: Strategy outputs were to be produced in three components of the project. A
further set of strategies, plans and draft laws was agreed at the time of the MTR:

                    Proposed at appraisal                                                   Achieved
National Seeds Strategy                                           This was prepared and approved.
National Animal Health and Production Strategy                    This was prepared and approved.
National Water Resource Strategy                                  This was prepared and approved.
               Proposed at mid-term review                                                  Achieved
A draft revised Water Law                                         This was submitted but has not yet been approved.
A National Plan for village veterinarians                         This was prepared and submitted.
A Fisheries Master Plan                                           This was submitted to MAFF, but has not yet been approved.
The revised Fisheries Law                                         This has been submitted to Parliament but not yet approved.
A Strategy for Agricultural Education                             This has been submitted to MAFF but not yet endorsed.



                                                               - 10 -

Results of the Components:

4.2.7     The Agronomy, Seeds and Plant Protection Component (actual expenditures US$6.64 million,
65.2 percent of the appraisal estimate and 71.6 percent of the MTR revised estimate) had six
sub-components. The overall outcome of the component was marginally unsatisfactory.

4.2.8     The Technical Coordination and Capacity Building Sub-Component (US$1.98 million,
124.5/102.6 percent).
The outcome of the sub-component was marginally satisfactory. The DAALI (successor to the DOA) was
provided with new and renovated headquarters office and laboratories for: (i) soil and plant analysis; (ii)
seed quality control and plant genetic resources; (iii) plant protection and diagnosis; and (iv) pesticide
formulation and residue analysis. A technical coordination office was established within DAALI as a
precursor to the establishment of a national agricultural research station. Planning and management of
research programs was improved and systems were developed for institutional development, administration
and financial management. Collaborative links were established and strengthened with other departments
of the MAFF and government, and with international agricultural research organizations. Capacity was
built through local and overseas training. DAALI also supervised the other sub-components in the
Agronomy, Seeds and Plant Protection Component.

4.2.9     The Soil Fertility Management and Conservation Sub-Component (US$0.66 million, 63.1/51.1
percent).
The outcome of the sub-component was marginally unsatisfactory. The capacity of the Land Management
Office (formerly the Technical Office) of DAALI was strengthened, and it worked closely with other
relevant national and international organizations (e.g., the International Center for Tropical Agriculture -
CIAT, the Cambodian Agricultural Research and Development Institute - CARDI, and the Food and
Agriculture Organization - FAO) involved with soil fertility and land management issues. Numerous field
activities were carried out on soil fertility management and conservation, especially with compost making
and fertilizer/manure use trials. A detailed compilation and review was carried out of all available data and
information related to the soils of Cambodia and land management issues. To sustain its activities in soil
fertility management and conservation it has prepared several proposals for donor support.

4.2.10    The Farming Systems and Crop Diversification Sub-Component (US$0.31 million, 31.3/83.8
percent).
The outcome of the sub-component was unsatisfactory. No support was received from CIRAD, contrary to
what had been envisaged in the SAR. As a result, the sub-component was completely inactive during the
first half of the project's life. It began to function in February 2002, and a Norwegian trust fund provided
short-term technical assistance (four months per year) during 2002-2004. The sub-component was focused
on a farming systems analysis approach to developing sustainable and profitable smallholder farming
including integrated crop management (ICM) in tandem with the IPM sub-component. Because of its
relatively late start, the sub-component's objectives and planned outputs were revised with IDA at the end
of 2002 in a modified work plan. By December 2005, the immediate objectives of (a) creating a core staff
with skills in farming systems analysis and farm production economics; and (b) laying a foundation for the
drafting of a national strategy for crop diversification had been reached. The medium-term objective
(farmers adopting profitable technology and ICM) and the development goal (widespread adoption of
profitable and diversified farming systems) are achievable only in the long term. Work carried out
included: the collection and analysis of agro-ecological data in areas of smallholder rubber production in
four provinces and collaboration with the Project Heveaculture Familiale (which focuses on
diversification); the establishment of a data-base for rice-based farming systems; farm trials on promising


                                                        - 11 -

crops originating in the Institut de Recherche sur le Caoutchouc au Cambodge (IRCC) Experiment
Station; and the evaluation of alternative crops suitable for no-till cultivation in rice residues.

4.2.11   The Seed Production Program Sub-Component (US$1.59 million, 42.9/54.1 percent).
The outcome of the sub-component was unsatisfactory. The national seed strategy called for autonomy for
the MAFF-owned seed farms, to be followed by their privatization or private administration. However,
MAFF has been reluctant to see this translated into practice. Under the APIP, seed farms with processing
centers were established/renovated and fully equipped at two locations (Chamka Leu and Tuol Sam Rong).
Both operate far below their installed capacity, mainly because their budgets are much too small. As a
result, the area that can be planted to seed by the farms themselves is very limited and their ability to
contract seed production with outside farmers is almost nonexistent. In addition, three out of four existing
irrigation systems were not rehabilitated under the project. Budget resources are also slow in actually
being made available, often eight months after the expenditure was incurred. The seed farms, therefore,
operate under a system of de facto suppliers' credit and earnings from seed sales that are held back from
transfer to the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF). The first seed crop was financed from the Credit
but the IDA insisted that from the second crop on the seed-growing entities should be self-financing from
the seed sales revenue; however, MEF insists that sales income should be transferred to it and a new budget
request made each year for a new operational budget. Debate on this appears not to have been resolved,
with the result that the seed farms operate in a "survival" mode.

4.2.12   The agricultural equipment and seed-processing plant acquired under the project are practically
unused, and the amount of seed actually produced in a year can be processed in a matter of days. The
equipment provided, from agricultural equipment through to seed processing, is of the highest quality
(although there are concerns about the drier in at least one location - Chamka Leu - that appears to damage
seed and significantly reduces the germination percentage). The ICR mission discussed with the project
authorities the need for an Action Plan to be prepared to guide the full level of utilization of this valuable
installed capacity. Such a plan would benefit from the preparation of a formal Business Plan to identify
marketing and operational strategy and the budget necessary to implement it. The issue of operational
autonomy, if not outright eventual private ownership or management, must be solved before there can be
progress on operating these assets at capacity and on a profitable basis.

4.2.13   The processing of the draft Seed Law is now being supported by the Asian Development Bank
(ADB) and it was sent to the Minister of MAFF in 2005.

4.2.14   The achievements of the APIP at the Kbal Koh vegetable research station (the only one in
Cambodia) represent in microcosm much of what was achieved in, and much of what ails, the project as a
whole. Variety research including imported seed through trials and evaluation culminated in the
distribution of proven, improved seed to farmers. The station has received outside help since at least 1985;
the Church World Service and later the Asia Vegetable Research and Development Center (Taiwan) both
have provided support. Between 1999-2005, the APIP rehabilitated infrastructure; supplied goods,
equipment and materials; and established irrigation facilities. Some 1500 farmers and extensionists were
trained and numerous field demonstrations were made, in addition to staff of the station training others at
the provincial level. Now no longer able to count on APIP support, the station struggles with an
insufficient and delayed MAFF budget. There was no budget at all available for research in the 2005-2006
dry season. Of ten technicians, six have either resigned or taken extended leave without pay to take other
jobs. As a result, a station carrying out essential work from the point of view of increasing productivity is
totally dependent on outside resources to operate.




                                                      - 12 -

4.2.15    The Plant Protection Service Establishment Sub-Component (US$0.94 million, 78.0/68.1
percent).
The outcome of the sub-component was satisfactory. In pest surveillance, a National Phyto-Sanitary Data
Base was created with more than 200 specimens identified and preserved. Extensive training courses were
held on the safe use of pesticides, attended by 734 people from MAFF, NGOs and the private sector. The
legislative framework was considerably strengthened; at the beginning of the project, little was known
about the World Trade Organization (WTO) and the World Health Organization (WHO) recommendations,
but this has been learned. A list of pesticides in common use in Cambodia based on the WHO's
classification includes 136 permitted, 40 restricted and 116 banned products. A pesticide market and
misuse survey has shown that the number of products available in the market quadrupled between 2000 and
2004. The Plant Protection Service has worked closely with the Ministry of Health (MOH) in establishing
the National Codex Committee on Maximum Residual Levels and Food Safety. Pesticide analysis
laboratories were created under the project. Other agencies have now begun to use the Data Base
developed under APIP.

4.2.16    The Integrated Pest Management Sub-Component (US$1.16 million, 70.3/85.3 percent).
The outcome of the sub-component was highly satisfactory. The sub-component began in July 2000 and
was completed in December 2005. The sub-component was part of a National IPM Program that began in
1993 and continues; it has had and continues to receive support from international and local partners
(including the Food and Agriculture Organization, which began its IPM efforts there in 1990 and continues
today, United Nations Development Program - UNDP - and the Seila Program). Its main activity under the
APIP was extension through Farmer Field Schools and the follow-up Farmers Clubs. Between July 2000
and December 2005, some 23,300 farmers were trained of whom 45 percent were women. Impact
assessment at the field level was carried out using support from the Danish International Development
Agency (DANIDA). IPM-using farmers have seen their yields reach 2,747 kgs/ha for wet-season rice and
3,114 kgs/ha for dry-season rice, compared to 2,014 kgs/ha and 2,450 kgs/ha, respectively, for those
farmers not using IPM. Pesticide use is significantly reduced among IPM farmers and incomes have risen.
It is not possible to isolate the returns to IPM alone because under the project IPM was promoted as part of
a technical package; in rice, for example, IPM was taught alongside improved transplanting techniques,
fertilize use and adoption of improved seed in the concept of ICM.

4.2.17    The Animal Health and Production Component (actual expenditures US$4.63 million, 85.8
percent of the appraisal estimate and 96.7 percent of the MTR revised estimate) had three sub-components.
The overal outcome of the component was satisfactory. This component was funded by IFAD which has
prepared a Project Completion Report for it, the Executive Summary of which is provided in Annex 10 of
this ICR. IFAD's assessment is that the component was highly successful in its implementation and
achieved most of the objectives set for it. In project identification and design in the early and mid-1990s,
emphasis was placed on health issues rather than on production because there was a major problem of
animal health. Institutional development under this component has been very significant, and without it
Cambodia would have been in no position to respond as effectively as it has to the outbreaks of Highly
Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI). IFAD provided support for and coordinated with the IDA supervision
missions.

4.2.18    The component also produced the National Strategic Plan for Animal Health and Production, with
a policy framework, that provides guidance for the long-term development of the livestock sector. The
component also was responsible for the promotion of regional cooperation with the WTO, the World
Animal Health Organization (Office International des Epizooties - OIE) and the Association of Southeast
Asian Nations (ASEAN). The provincial offices were up-graded, and the National Animal Health and
Production Investigation Center (NAHPIC) diagnostic laboratory at DAHP and the provincial laboratories


                                                     - 13 -

were all completed and made operational.

4.2.19   The Disease Control and Management Sub-Component (US$1.34 million, 50.0/69.8 percent).
The outcome of the sub-component was satisfactory. The main purpose of the sub-component was to
improve DAHP's central support for disease diagnosis and vaccine production. The NAHPIC provides the
routine animal disease diagnosis and investigation. The staff has been intensely involved with emerging
animal diseases, especially HPAI. The capabilities of the technical staff have been strengthened through
on-the-job training in laboratory analysis skills, data collection and data-base management. The NAHPIC
has monitored provincial-level activities and training for HPAI surveillance and prevention of infection.
The National Animal Health and Production Information System - NAHPIS - and the Epidemiology Unit
also prepare the foot-and-mouth disease and other communicable animal diseases reports which are shared
with the regional information system. NAHPIC collects information on major diseases, analyzes
specimens, and carries out a number of research projects and field trials in Newcastle Disease and
Haemorrhagic Septicaemia. It also cooperates with the Disease Control Program supported by the Japan
International Cooperation Agency (JICA).

4.2.20   The Basic Animal Health Program Sub-Component (US$3.22 million, 129.8/134.2 percent).
The outcome of the sub-component was satisfactory. The purpose of the sub-component was to promote
the development of private veterinary services to farmers in four provinces to reduce levels of morbidity
and mortality and thereby help to raise productivity. The sub-component was responsible for the creation
of a sustainable national private village animal health (VAH) system; some 2,800 VAH workers have been
trained, 14 percent of whom are women. The sub-component also leads the integration of VAH workers
recognition nation-wide; in total, 3,063 VAH workers have been evaluated and recognized under the
national standard. The "village veterinarian" concept (i.e., VAH workers) had earlier been supported by a
number of NGOs. The project produced a guide for VAH workers that is used extensively outside the
project.

4.2.21   The Promotion of Animal Production Sub-Component (US$0.06 million, 27.8/13.6 percent).
The outcome of the sub-component was satisfactory. The purpose of the sub-component was to improve
the technical capability in animal husbandry and nutrition of the Division of Animal Production and, with
the DAHP, to develop animal production policy at provincial and national levels in parallel with the policy
initiatives taken in animal health. With the University of Tropical Agriculture a short course on ecological
farming systems has been provided for provincial production staff. At least fifty demonstration plots have
been established in each of the four target provinces to demonstrate animal production technology,
breeding, and feed and fodder production at the village level. Animal feed and feeding and animal
husbandry booklets were prepared to assist with farmer training.

4.2.22   An "informal" sub-component was also created under the component of Animal Health and
Production to prepare training manuals and programs for Veterinary Inspections and Food Safety. A
25-day training course was held to train 150 provincial veterinary officers from 24 provinces and major
towns.

4.2.23   The Agricultural Hydraulics Component (actual expenditures US$6.71 million, 114.6 percent of
the appraisal estimate and 125.1 percent of the MTR revised estimate) had three sub-components. The
overall outcome of the component was marginally satisfactory.




                                                      - 14 -

4.2.24   The Capacity Building in the GDIHM Sub-Component (US$1.08 million, 144.0/127.1
percent).
The outcome of the sub-component was marginally satisfactory. The national Water Resource Strategy
was prepared, and formally endorsed by MOWRAM in January 2002. The Water Law was submitted to
the national assembly in April 2002 but after the elections of 2003 it was sent back to the Council of
Ministers (in common with all pending legislation) and thence to MOWRAM in March 2005. It has since
been revised and re-submitted. Four sub-decrees of the Law were prepared (on farmer water user
communities, licensing, watershed management and water resources management). Training emphasized
computer skills and English language. The training identified in the SAR for soils laboratory technicians
was found in practice to be unnecessary (laboratory equipment was provided under the APIP). A number
of workshops on Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and the Water Resources Strategy was held.
Early in the project, the technical assistance provided to the component identified an urgent need for
technical training in topographic surveying and use of newly-acquired survey equipment and soft-ware, but
this does not appear to have taken place.

4.2.25   The Hydrology Information System Development Sub-Component (US$0.22 million,
19.2/26.8 percent).
The outcome of the sub-component was satisfactory. The purpose of the sub-component was to establish a
hydrological data-base including hardware software and data, and to ensure its long-term operation by
training local staff. The GIS that was to form the basis of the sub-component was established and by the
time of the MTR it was reported that the component had achieved its objective. The sub-component also
established the capacity to monitor rainfall and run-off in two model catchment areas (Prek Tek Chhu in
Kampot province, and Prek Teuk Sap in Sihanoukville). The GIS is based on an initial map set at
1:100,000 for the Tonle Sap region and the lower Mekong Basin, and later on a scanned 1:50,000 map set.
Surface water-flow measurements using instruments and ground water measurements from well logs were
used to calculated detailed data. It was agreed at that time that the hydrological monitoring network would
be expanded to catchments outside the Mekong Basin.

4.2.26   The Small-Scale Agricultural Hydraulics Sub-Component (US$5.17 million, 173.0/183.5
percent).
The outcome of the sub-component was marginally satisfactory. The sub-component was slow to start
because of delays in recruiting engineers and socio-economic analysts under the UN Volunteers and in
carrying out the topographical surveys and designs of schemes. Because of the delays and an apparent
increase in costs relative to the appraisal estimates the target number of schemes was reduced from 47 to
20 at the MTR. This reduction was felt not to affect the purpose of the sub-component since its primary
aim was to assess the overall viability and economics of small-scale agricultural hydraulics schemes and
not the construction of schemes per se. However, under the sub-component, a total of 47 schemes was
finally constructed. Each scheme was treated as a individual "project" and was the subject of a feasibility
study in which the area to be brought under command and the number of beneficiaries was estimated,
together with the construction cost and the projected increase in crop yield (and consequent net project
benefit). The schemes constructed varied in quality and there are reports of some schemes remaining
unfinished by the contractors. In many schemes, the physical works carried out were improvements of
existing structures, some of them many decades old. The schemes mainly consisted of earth-work retaining
structures and concrete control structures, and were built by private sector contractors who bid for
"packages" of works (i.e., irrigation schemes at more than one location). Each scheme provides the
infrastructure for water retention/diversion and control, but the additional investments in main and
distribution canals, in which the cost could be very significant, were the responsibility of the beneficiaries,
actual and potential.




                                                      - 15 -

4.2.27   In any given location, constructing the scheme removed the principal impediment to improved
cropping (mainly of rice) but numerous other factors affected and continue to affect the actual extent to
which the potential production level could be reached. The lack of security of land tenure for plots to be
improved under the scheme; the absence of credit and improved inputs (seeds, fertilizer, agricultural
chemicals); the lack of technical assistance; and the shortage of resources at the farm level to pay for
investments (in canals and small control structures) and maintenance, all impede the actual achievement of
the potentially high yields to be grown in dry-season fully irrigated cropping.

4.2.28   A socio-economic analysis of a sample of ten schemes was carried out in late 2005. Although the
report [3] contains valuable information about the effects of the schemes at the farm household level, it does
not provide the economic analysis that had been anticipated which would have contributed to the continuing
debate on the relative merits of small-, medium- and large-scale irrigation schemes. In order that this
opportunity should not be missed, following the ICR mission and at its recommendation, resources from the
FAO-World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO-CP) were used (in May and June 2006) to carry out a
separate assessment of the farm-level and scheme-level economic/financial returns for the same sample of
ten schemes; the results are summarized in Section 4.3.

4.2.29   The adequacy of maintenance of small-scale irrigation schemes was identified at appraisal as being
of critical importance but it was left unidentified both in the KPI presented in the SAR and in the
subsequently-produced monitoring and evaluation system. Evidence from field visits indicates that in the
short period since their construction many schemes are already showing the effects of a lack of maintenance
(it should be noted that many, perhaps most, of the schemes are quite literally totally submerged by the
rising water during the rainy season and perform their function of water retention as the water recedes. The
erosion of retention structures and the siltation of canals is obviously high even in well-constructed schemes
with good earth compaction). The farmer water user communities in all 47 small schemes received training
in the use of irrigation and in the maintenance of the infrastructure.

4.2.30   The Medium-Scale Agricultural Hydraulics Sub-Component (US$0.24 million, 24.0/26.7
percent).
The outcome of the sub-component was unsatisfactory. The purpose of the sub-component was to
strengthen the capacity of the GDIHM (later the MOWRAM) for carrying out feasibility studies. One
specific scheme - Prek Tatam in Prey Veng Province - was identified for feasibility study and, if considered
economically viable, for construction. The study was done by consultants and built upon earlier work done
by Vietnamese technical assistance and by international engineering consultants. The final report, in the
opinion of the IDA, lacks a full environmental impact analysis and agricultural economic analysis; there
was disagreement on this issue with the consultants whose contract had already finished. IDA continued its
efforts to get this incremental work done, and included it as a key step in the final six-month Action Plan of
the project, but it remains incomplete.

4.2.31   The Fisheries Component (actual expenditures US$2.02 million, 64.1 percent of the appraisal
estimate and 78.3 percent of the MTR revised estimate) had three sub-components. The overall outcome of
the component was marginally unsatisfactory. As a major output, the Fisheries Master Plan has been
drafted but not yet completed. The Fisheries Law was delayed by a year on the IDA's insistence that the
public debate on the draft law should be led by an NGO.

4.2.32   The Fisheries Conservation and Management Sub-Component (US$0.19 million, 7.7/22.1
percent).
The outcome of the sub-component was unsatisfactory. The main purpose of the sub-component was to
increase the fish productivity of capture fisheries by rehabilitating and improving fish stocks and their


                                                      - 16 -

habitats. Initially the fish sanctuaries were intended to be in the Tonle Sap where boundaries have been
extensively marked to indicate where fishing is not allowed. However, after extensive consultations with
the affected communities, whose members were overwhelmingly in favor of fish sanctuaries, the decision
was taken not to work in the Tonle Sap area but to work with two fish sanctuaries loacated in the Mekong
Delta of Takeo province and in the coastal area of Sihanoukville. Practical actions to create these two
pilot fishing communities began in April 2003; however, activity in the Fisheries Component ceased in June
2004, by which time the communities had been formed but not fully reinforced.

4.2.33   The Support for Freshwater Fisheries Research Sub-Component (US$1.17 million,
112.0/157.4 percent).
The outcome of the sub-component was marginally satisfactory. Initially, the Chriang Chamres Research
Station was to have been the subject of rehabilitation but this was changed during implementation to the
Bati Fish Seed Production and Research Station. This station was established by an NGO in 1987. The
APIP funded the rehabilitation of the river bund and concrete embankment for site protection; a wall and
security fence; rehabilitation of buildings and new construction (including a dormitory and a laboratory);
concrete and earth ponds; and a hatchery and warehouse. The up-grade and rehabilitation of Bati has been
a major achievement. The capital expenditure for rehabilitation was provided under the APIP and now
JICA is supporting its recurrent costs in research and extension training for the period 2005-2010.
Initially, the station was the responsibility of the provincial government but it was transferred to the DOF
in mid-2005 in order that JICA support could have a wider impact (although its transfer to DOF and its
up-grade from research station to institute are not yet completed). At the time of the ICR mission, the
budget for the fiscal year 2006 had not been finalized.

4.2.34   A very significant investment has also been made in a fish-feed blending and pelleting plant. There
is no mention of this in the SAR, and it is understood that a small experimental hammer-mill and pelletizer
was proposed for research into the feasibility of producing balanced feed from locally-available ingredients.
However, the plant constructed has a capacity of 300 kgs/hour of output, making it a medium-sized
commercial plant. It has never operated at its full capacity and is basically unused. It is not possible to
operate such a plant for the very short periods of time that would be needed to satisfy the feed requirements
of the Bati station (currently about 150 kgs/day), and most of the elements that would be required to
operate it on a full time basis (such as adequate working capital, supply of ingredients, and cadre of trained
workers) are missing. Although basic training was provided by the contractor/equipment supplier, there is
no trained engineer on the site and the plant has never operated at its capacity other than in the proving
trials. The ICR mission recommended that a full study should be done of the issues and opportunities
involved in operating the plant at its full capacity, and that the study should include a business plan to
identify markets, sources and costs of inputs, costs of operation, working capital requirements, etc.

4.2.35   The Capacity Building of the Department of Fisheries Sub-Component (US$0.67 million,
116.8/66.6 percent).
The outcome of the sub-component was marginally satisfactory. The purpose of the sub-component was to
repair and build new physical infrastructure for the DoF, to formulate development strategy and policy, and
to develop human resources. The sub-component made substantial progress in setting up administration
systems including accounting, planning, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, and gender
main-streaming. In terms of human resource development, the sub-component worked closely with the
Human Resources Department. Training and capacity building has been done only locally, and included
English language training, basic and specialized computer and information technology training, business
administration (local MBA education), brood stock fish management, and the preparation of fisheries
community management and development plans. A wide range of construction was carried out in the DoF



                                                       - 17 -

headquarters and the Bati research station, and vehicles, boat engines, Global Positioning System (GPS)
equipment, computer hardware and software, and other equipment were procured.

4.2.36   A "master plan working group" was established to prepare the Fisheries Master Plan 2001-2011 to
include strategy and policy for the whole fisheries sector. The first draft was prepared in April 2001. In
2003, a Khmer translation of the document was discussed with all major stakeholders but attempts to hold
consultation on the Master Plan through one or more workshops appear to have been frustrated by a failure
to reach agreement between the DOF and the IDA on modalities, particularly the use of an NGO or a
consulting company to lead the process. The "fisheries law working group" cooperated with an overseas
specialist in the drafting of the law which was available in Khmer translation in March 2001. Extensive
consultations of the draft law were held in Phnom Penh and in regional workshops with all stakeholders,
and the draft was approved by the Council of Ministers in January 2004. The draft law was presented to
the National Congress in April 2006.

4.2.37   The Smallholder Rubber Research Component (actual expenditures US$1.03 million, 53.7
percent of the appraisal estimate and 68.3 percent of the MTR revised estimate).
The overall outcome of the component was satisfactory. The component received substantial technical
assistance from CIRAD which seconded a researcher to it for a period of five years, and a significant part
of the success achieved by the component can be attributed to this. The project supported small-holders to
establish rubber on areas of up one hectare via the provision of planting material, fertilizer and technical
assistance. The first plantings were in 1998 and production began after six years, shorter than normal
because of the use of improved clonal planting materials. Problems were encountered in establishing trials
in the coastal areas; it was difficult to recruit farmers because of low prices in the past, a reluctance to
invest, and conflicts over land-holding. The component established 57 trials in traditional and
non-traditional areas, work on which is continuing under the IRCC's own budget; established 3.42 ha of
bud-wood gardens in five locations (with a total of 65,000 stalks) which have now been transferred to three
state-owned plantations and two private sector plantations and in which the IRCC maintains a supervision
function; established eight meteorological stations and regularly collected both meteorological data and
trials agronomic data. The socioeconomic studies, basically the collection of data on the costs of
establishing and maintaining small-scale rubber plantations including labor supply and input use, have not
been fully completed; data has been collected but not analyzed.

4.2.38   Farmers are now convinced about the benefits of the use of grafted, clonal planting material
whereas before they were accustomed to using the lower-yielding seedling method. The project was
valuable in giving the IRCC experience of working with small farmers and understanding the constraints
under which they operate, and the IRCC intends to expand its use of the APIP model. The sustainability of
the project's achievements is likely; the IRCC is semi-autonomous with its own 750 ha of production
rubber to generate revenue for operating costs. Although there is as yet no contribution from the rubber
industry, an Agence Française de Développement (AFD)-supported project is currently making a proposal
for the IRCC to be funded from the proceeds of a cess on rubber exports similar to that successfully
employed in Malaysia and Thailand.

4.2.37   The Human Resources Management Component (actual expenditures US$0.92 million, 48.4
percent of the appraisal estimate and 51.3 percent of the MTR revised estimate).
The outcome of the component was marginally unsatisfactory. In December 1999, for practical purposes
the component was divided into two: Human Resources Development/Training Management and
Agricultural Education and Training. The component closed in June 2004. A manual of Human Resource
Development was prepared and discussed in a workshop, but it remains in draft form. Several Masters



                                                      - 18 -

Degree candidates were selected and some went for overseas training before the remainder were blocked by
the MEF on the grounds that the use of the Credit's resources for such training was inappropriate. There is
a problem of low salaries in MAFF (in common with the whole civil service) which has a major impact on
staff continuity; staff tend to leave once they are trained, to seek a living wage in NGOs and other projects
(staff may take leave of absence from their positions in MAFF - unpaid - for up to four years).

4.2.38   The Support to Provincial Departments of Agriculture Component (actual expenditures
US$0.20 million, 45.2 percent of the appraisal estimate and 63.4 percent of the MTR revised estimate).
The outcome of the component was satisfactory. The component originally consisted of the rehabilitation
of civil works and the provision of equipment and vehicles for the provincial departments of agriculture in
Kompong Thom, Kompong Cham, Kratie, Prey Veng and Svay Rieng. The estimated cost of the
component was reduced by 25 percent at the time of the MTR, at which time it was agreed that its scope
would be expanded to include a pilot program in two provinces (Kompong Thom and Takeo) to test
appropriate methodologies to ensure awareness of and access to the technical recommendations and
services developed under the APIP at the provincial and district levels. By the end of 2001, all construction
and procurement of civil works, vehicles and equipment had been completed. It was agreed that the DPSIC
would be responsible for the pilot program, which would be based on a diagnostic study of the Departments
of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries DAFFs) of the two provinces to be carried out using bilateral
technical assistance (from France). The study was completed, and discussions were held with the MAFF
and provincial DAFFs in the context of the government's overall policies for decentralization. In practical
terms, towrds the end of the project's life this component became "merged" with the following component.



4.2.39   The Strengthening of Planning and Statistics Component (actual expenditures US$2.31 million,
74.2 percent of the appraisal estimate and 82.2 percent of the MTR revised estimate) had two
sub-components. The overall outcome of the component was marginally satisfactory.

4.2.41   The Agricultural Policy and Planning Capacity Building Sub-Component (US$0.35 million,
35.5/55.7 percent).
The outcome of the sub-component was marginally unsatisfactory. The main purpose of the
sub-component was to strengthen the national, provincial and local capability to plan and formulate
projects. The sub-component only started full operation during 2003. With technical assistance from
CIRAD, training took place in Indonesia, four workshops were held on the role of agricultural policy
planning in a market economy, a series of workshops was held on agricultural planning to bring together
MAFF, MOWRAM and the Ministry of Rural Development (MRD), and a workshop was held in MAFF
on the main-streaming of gender in October 2005. The main strategic output of the sub-component was the
Agricultural Sector Strategic Development Plan 2006-2010 as a contribution to the government's NSDP
2006-2010. This report, of October 2005, in English, has been shared with the Ministry of Planning.
Agreement has not yet been reached on the document and it therefore remains in draft.

4.2.42   The Agricultural Statistics System Establishment Sub-Component (US$1.96 million, 92.4/89.8
percent).
The outcome of the sub-component was satisfactory. Prior to the APIP, there were few agricultural
statistics or surveys, and data was available only from administrative reports. The sub-component covered
all 24 provinces and was supported by the FAO. The system was based on a staff of thirteen in Phnom
Penh, two in each province and two in each District (of which there are 183). Equipment was provided to
all three levels. FAO trained the headquarters staff, who in turn trained staff at the provincial level. The
sub-component allowed the production of a crop and livestock survey, a yield survey and a cost of



                                                      - 19 -

production survey (for rice, maize, soybeans and sugar cane). Results were produced annually, starting in
2000.

4.2.43   The impact of the APIP was very large but the activities of the system are only precariously
sustainable. At the end of the APIP, JICA supported the 2005 costs of production survey and the
agricultural statistics 2004-2005, but now funding is restricted to a rice crop survey and agricultural
statistics 2005-2006, to be produced with a limited number of copies.

4.2.44   The Project Management Unit (actual expenditures US$2.68 million, 84.5 percent of the
appraisal estimate and 94.2 percent of the MTR revised estimate).
The overall outcome of the component was satisfactory. The PMU has functioned with reasonable
efficiency and effectiveness. The financial record keeping, work program projection, and the preparation of
expenditure statements, component and project costs, etc. are exemplary.

4.2.45   Annex 2 of the SAR describes a wide range of impact and output indicators, but only the impact
indicators were quantified at the time of appraisal. The intention was that the output indicators would be
quantified in the first three months following the effectiveness of the Credit; however, the first version of
the output monitoring scheme (which took two years to produce) was considered to be too complex and was
revised. By the time of the MTR, a project log-frame had been prepared together with a system of field
monitoring and field observations. The fully functioning monitoring and evaluation system was not in
place until mid-2003, barely eighteen months before the project's close.

4.2.46   Two "virtual" parts of the project were created. The Agricultural Education and Training
component was created in 1999 and the Gender sub-component appeared after the MTR. The purpose of
the Agricultural Education and Training component was to remedy the lack of qualified staff to help policy
makers in matters of agricultural education and to formulate and implement a strategy for its development.
In gender, the SAR proposed developing gender awareness from the top and incorporate gender in field and
extension activities from the bottom. After the MTR, the IDA proposed that each component should make
specific efforts to ensure that there was increased awareness of gender issues among the APIP staff, that
gender sensitivity should be incorporated into programmed activities wherever possible, and that data
collected in monitoring activities should be disaggregated by gender wherever possible.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1    The SAR described a process of "economic analysis" undertaken during appraisal that appears to
have been a close examination of alternative means of achieving objectives and outputs in the most reliable
and cost-effective manner. The project included a large investment in training, technical assistance and
human resource development. The cost-effectiveness analysis indicated that in some areas the investment
per beneficiary was high for benefits that were difficult to quantify; nonetheless, these investments were
considered to be crucial for the project's success, given its important capacity-building target.

4.3.2    No conventional overall economic analysis (to calculate an economic internal rate of return - EIRR
- or a net present value - NPV) was carried out for the project as a whole, but an "indicative" economic
analysis was made of one component and three sub-components that were expected to have a direct impact
on production levels: animal health and production, small-scale agricultural hydraulics, seed production
and integrated pest management. The incremental costs and benefits directly associated with the
investments were compared over a projected period of fifteen years and an internal rate of return calculated.




                                                     - 20 -

4.3.3    At appraisal, the Animal Health and Production component had an EIRR of 36 percent. A
detailed Completion Report prepared by IFAD for this component included an assessment of the initial
impact. Because the project had not identified an effective means of measuring in physical and financial
terms the impact of the animal health measures that it supported, no formal economic analysis of the
component's outcome was attempted. A précis of the report's conclusions on the component's economic
impacts is included in Annex 3.

4.3.4    The appraisal concluded that the Small-scale Agricultural Hydraulics sub-component was
designed to demonstrate the viability of schemes and had "deliberately limited physical development
targets". The benefits were assumed to be an incremental production of wet-season rice and some
high-value vegetables and/or fish. The EIRR of the sub-component was projected to be 25 percent, being
the average of each scheme. When more conservative assumptions were used for net incremental benefits
and adoption rates, the EIRR was reduced to 11 percent.

4.3.5    The results of the economic analysis of the sample of ten schemes referred to above in paragraph
4.2.28 are as follows:

                 Scheme                           Investment              EIRR                 NPV
                                                     (US$)                 (%)       (@ 25 percent discount rate)
     Prek Tathía                                     90.000                 38                 35,800
     Sra Nge                                         48,000                 76                 91,600
     Káek Pol                                        48,000                 12                -20,600
     O Chhóuk                                        67,000                 70                160,200
     Koh Réah                                        81,000                 48                 60,500
     Rom Léah                                       149,000                 95                375,600
     Boeng Prá                                      138,000                 47                 96,100
     Tranúl Chhnang                                  89,000                 63                143,700
     Knay Roméah                                     72,000                 88               238,5000
     O Choa                                         144,000                 -6                 -91,000

4.3.6    In eight of the ten schemes, the EIRR exceeds the appraisal estimate of 25 percent. The NPV is
sensitive primarily to the additional area of land brought under cultivation as a result of the increased
volume of irrigation water made available and/or better water management, and secondarily to
improvements in the agricultural yield, mainly of rice. However, the latter is insufficient to justify
investments on the scale observed in the case of O Choa (in which only a few meters of canal have been
dug and, as a result, there is only a very small increase in the area farmed and a small increase in yield of
rice - and even this may not be a result of the scheme's construction). The net present value (using a 25
percent discount rate) of the investments in rehabilitating eight out of ten irrigation schemes ranges from
$60,500 to $375,600. The decisive variables, in order of importance, are the area of farmland gained and
the increase in agricultural yield. There are few schemes, three or four among the ten, that have a modest
potential for expansion, primarily or exclusively with funds external to the beneficiaries and their
organizations. The final report is available in the project files.

4.3.7    At appraisal, the Seed Production Program sub-component was considered to have an EIRR of
17 percent if "first round" benefits alone were included, and this rose to 38 percent when "second round"
benefits were added. The analysis included all of the sub-component's costs and assumed (somewhat
heroically) that foundation seed would be sold from seed farms at a price reflecting its direct cost of



                                                     - 21 -

production. On this basis, the appraisal concluded that recurrent costs would be more than covered by
sales revenues and significant economic benefits would also accrue to farmers from the use of improved
seed.

4.3.8    For reasons discussed in paragraphs 4.2.11 and 4.2.12, the sub-component has been able to
operate at only a tiny fraction of the capacity represented by its agricultural equipment and seed processing
plants. In 2005, it produced only 2.1 percent of the foundation and extension seed projected in the Key
Performance Indicators. No economic analysis has been carried out for the sub-component, but by
definition the implicit IRR of what has been achieved to date and, on that basis, projected for 15 - 20 years
would be strongly negative.

4.3.9    The economic analysis at appraisal of the Integrated Pest Management sub-component indicated
a "base case" IRR of 26 percent and projected that the inclusion of incremental fishing benefits (i.e., the
prevention of losses) that would accompany a more controlled use of pesticides would increase the IRR to
42 percent. No ex post economic analysis of the sub-component was prepared, but under the auspices of
DANIDA two reports assessing: (a) the impact of the IPM Program at Field Level; and (b) the Integrated
Rice-Fish-Vegetable Farmer Field Schools were prepared, in 2003 and 2005, respectively. As described in
paragraph 4.2.16, the sub-component was part of a National IPM Program that received support from
multiple donors, including DANIDA.

4.3.12   In the first study, farmers were selected in six provinces where either DANIDA or APIP was
operating and sample data were collected for the 2002 dry-season rice cultivation. Compared to control
farmers, those using IPM methods spent more on irrigation, transplanting, harvest and labor costs but less
on land preparation, pest control and fertilizers. On a per hectare basis, the total production costs of IPM
farmers for dry-season rice were 8.2 percent less than those of control farmers, their rice yields were 3.9
percent higher, and their net income was 8.3 percent higher. While these results are modest, the average
family income of IPM farm households was 18 percent higher than that of control IPM farmers and from
marginally-smaller land holdings; moreover, the IPM farmers' total incomes were much less dependent on
dry-season rice production than those of control farmers, indicating that there are aspects of diversification
and innovation in play that can only be understood through the application of farming systems analysis, and
that the value of IPM lies in the adoption of a more complex set of farming practices in "integrated crop
management".

4.3.13   In the second study, 247 farmers were selected in seven provinces where the Farmer Field Schools
had been implemented. Production practices among farmers who had attended the Schools were found to
have changed markedly (for example, there was an increased use of land-levelling; a decreased use of seed,
chemical fertilizer and pesticides; and increased integration of crops, vegetables and fish) with the result
that in rice cropping production costs were unchanged but yields rose by 33 percent, from 1530 to 2038
kg/ha. In fish production, the total variable cost per m² of pond surface was unchanged (at US$0.13) by
the adoption of more advanced practices but the net benefit rose from US$0.41 to US$0.92, an increase of
124 percent. In vegetable production, although the sample of farmers was small, the cost of production
rose by 41 percent, gross income by 17 percent and net income by 13 percent.

4.4 Financial rate of return:


4.4.1    No financial analysis was carried out for the overall project or any of its components,
sub-components or activities.

4.5 Institutional development impact:



                                                      - 22 -

4.5.1    The principal conclusion of the MTR was that the ownership of, and responsibility for, the
activities of the project should be progressively transferred to the Departments of MAFF to ensure that they
would be sustainable once the project was completed. Specific actions were therefore needed to integrate
the project's functions, procedures and staff into the departmental structures of MAFF and MOWRAM. In
some instances, there was said to be "inadequate coordination" between APIP and the regular departmental
activities; in others, APIP activities had their own separate existence in parallel with the departments they
ostensibly came under. The issues identified at the MTR as being crucial for the second part of the project
almost all rotated around the need to mainstream APIP into the regular structures of MAFF and
MOWRAM and to ensure the sustainability of APIP activities once the project was completed. MAFF and
MOWRAM do not appear to interact well; there are examples of irrigation schemes built by MOWRAM
where MAFF has not even been consulted about such issues as land use options, cropping patterns, or
resource conservation.

4.5.2    There are many ways in which MAFF, in particular, was significantly improved during the course
of the APIP (it is important to note that since the mid-1990s it has also received help from other donors,
especially the ADB and the European Union). Its initial inadequate "infrastructure" has been transformed
in terms of office and other buildings; vehicles, other equipment and communication and information
technology have been acquired; and the level of training carried out and the adoption of accounting and
planning tools and methods have helped to modernize MAFF's administrative structure. When the APIP
began, there was a lack of ability even to prepare a work program; with the support of technical assistance,
the first work program was prepared for the period July-December 1999. It is also remarkable, for
example, that English language training has provided many of the staff with the ability to communicate and
read in English, particularly in their specialized areas. However, MAFF (in common with the rest of the
civil service) has regular funding that is barely able to meet an austerity budget in recurrent costs and has
an insignificant investment budget. It is totally dependent on donor funding, through programs and projects
of all kinds, for investment budget and for providing the mobility and incremental costs necessary in many
cases for staff to do their jobs. There has been some marginal real increase in salaries recently, but
nowhere near enough to allow staff to work full-time in their positions. There is some room for optimism
that this may change with the adoption by the government of the Merit Based Pay Initiative.

4.5.3    Cambodia's dependence on official development assistance is strong and will remain so for some
time. As a result, in practical terms, the "continuity" of APIP (or any other project) depends on further
access of the implementing agencies to project funding; almost by definition, the concept of the
"sustainability of a project's achievements through the use of the government's own budget" is a
contradiction in terms.

4.5.4    At the MTR, three sets of activities were considered to have a contribution to make to the
sustainability of the project's activities: (a) the development of commercial operations or cost recovery in
certain activities (e.g., improved agricultural seed production and fish fingerling production); (b) the
participation of beneficiaries in the operation and maintenance of common resources (e.g., small-scale
irrigation schemes); and (c) skills up-grading and "adequate" payment of priority groups of technical and
administrative staff in MAFF and MOWRAM. In practice, both seed production and fish fingerling
production are at levels very far below the capacity that has been installed under APIP because the
operational budgets allocated to the production units are completely inadequate (and usually late in
becoming available); as a result, retained sales proceeds are sufficient only to maintain these operations in a
"survival" mode. Similarly, the participation of beneficiaries of small-scale agricultural hydraulics
schemes in their operation and maintenance via water users' associations and fees has had limited
development in the schemes developed in Kampong Thom and Kratie provinces. The concept of small


                                                        - 23 -

priority groups receiving training and "adequate" salaries appears not to have progressed; it is not clear
how such an arrangement would work in practice, as the divisive results of having different "tiers" of staff
would probably out-weigh the benefits from the full-time working of the priority groups.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1    The project was designed to help MAFF rebuild itself and take on the challenge of agricultural
development, following two decades of conflict. However, the project itself was destined to suffer the
consequences of continuing unrest. Shortly after the IDA Credit and IFAD Loan became effective in
mid-1997 and implementation of the project was initiated, a period of political turmoil and conflict began
which paralyzed the government and made project activities impossible. The project was re-launched in
mid-1998 (after the procurement process for TA had begun in April 1998) but further political turmoil
surrounding the July 1998 elections interrupted implementation once more, this time for almost one year.
In February 1999, an IDA supervision mission recognized the reasons for delay. The project was
re-launched for a second time in May 1999, and the legal agreements were amended in June 1999 to revise
the implementation schedule by postponing all target dates by two years (including the Closing Date of the
Credit, which was extended to June 30, 2004).

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1    A number of generic issues already alluded to affected the implementation and the outcome of the
project adversely. These include inadequate counter-part funding and the delayed provision of funding that
affected time-critical activities (e.g., construction work dependent on dry-season activity); superfluous
instances of review (and occasional countermanding) of decisions made by the implementing agencies: and
the inadequate levels of remuneration of civil service employees that effectively negate a great deal of other
efforts (e.g., training) to develop the human resource base of key institutions.

5.2.2    A second extension of the Closing Date to December 31, 2005, was processed in response to the
government's request to refocus the project and emphasize activities that would produce direct benefits to
farmers, while restricting expenditures in areas such as vehicles, technical assistance and training. A
limited number of components and sub-components continued up to the revised Closing Date: these were
Agronomy (with reduced scope), Seed Production, Plant Protection, Agricultural Hydraulics (small-scale
irrigation and further capacity building), Animal Health and Production, Smallholder Rubber Research,
Agricultural Planning and Support to Provincial Departments of Agriculture, together with continued
support for technical training and gender mainstreaming. The remaining project components and
sub-components closed on June 30, 2004 including Fisheries, Hydrology Information Systems,
medium-scale irrigation (after completion of the feasibility study), Agricultural Statistics, Agricultural
Education and Human Resource Development.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1    The project was implemented by MAFF and MOWRAM. There appears to have been poor
communication between the two ministries. The MAFF was responsible for project implementation
through the PSC and the PMU. Although both entities were created (their importance was indicated by
their establishment being made two conditions of effectiveness of the DCA), the former appears to have
existed in name only since shortly after project implementation began. Reportedly, several members of the
PSC were replaced in their positions in government and the official documents naming their successors to
the PSC were never prepared. In effect, the PSC simply withered away. This was in breach of a DCA


                                                      - 24 -

covenant. The responsibilities assigned to the PSC (i.e., approving annual work plans and budgets,
evaluating implementation, and reporting progress to the Borrower and the IDA) passed de facto to the
PMU. There is a confusing presentation of the structures of the PSC and the PMU in the SAR, but it is
clear that the PSC was meant to provide a cohesive function with respect to work programs and budgets, to
resolve problems, and to ensure that the APIP was coordinated with other projects and programs in the
sector. The "disappearance" of the PSC hindered efforts to mainstream APIP activities into the structure of
the MAFF, which became one of the principal issues for action after the Mid-term Review.

5.3.2    Shortly before the Credit's Closing Date, allegations of fraud and corruption on a consultancy
contract and two civil works contracts were substantiated by the World Bank Group's Department of
Institutional Integrity (INT) which is charged with investigating allegations of fraud and corruption in
Bank-financed projects. As a result of the INT investigation, the Bank declared the three contracts
"misprocured" which caused the expenditures under these contracts to become ineligible for financing under
the DCA. In addition, the Bank will consider sanctions against the firms that were involved. The sanctions
process is an internal administrative process within the Bank which provides for due process of all involved
parties.

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1    The financing plan of the original project design comprised a Credit from the IDA (as the
Administrator of the ITF) of SDR 18.8 million (at that time, equivalent to US$27.0 million), a loan from
the IFAD of SDR 3.35 million (equivalent to US$4.75 million), and government counterpart funding of
US$3.35 million. By the time of the MTR in mid-2001, the appreciation of the SDR had reduced the
values of the ITF Credit and the IFAD Loan to US$23.70 million and US$4.24 million, respectively. At
the MTR, adjustments were made to the proposed total costs of components and sub-components to reflect
the progress that had been achieved to date and to strengthen both the transfer of the project's outputs to
farmers and the institutional capacity of MAFF and MOWRAM. No adjustments were made to the
allocation of funds between disbursement categories and no changes were necessary to the DCA or the
IFAD Loan Agreement. The revised projected costs are shown in Annex 2.

5.4.2    The final status of the disbursements of the Credit is as follows:
                        Category                                              Disbursements (in SDR)
 1. Civil Works                                                                         3,543,675.06
 2. Goods and Equipment (except vehicles)                                               1,600,666.91
 3. Vehicles                                                                              986,828.56
 4. Agricultural and Laboratory Materials                                                 351,290.95
 5. Consultants' Services and Studies                                                   4,042,323.22
 6. Overseas Training                                                                     199,070.52
 7. Local Training                                                                      3,105,017.21
 8. Operating Costs                                                                       647,238.30
 Special Account*                                                                          68,625.30
 Total Disbursements                                                                  14,544,736.03
 Amount cancelled as of January 28, 2004                                                3,500,000.00
 Amount cancelled as of April 30, 2006                                                                          755,263.97

 Original Credit                                                                      18,800,000.00
* The amount indicated in the Special Account category represents the exchange rate differentials during currency conversion,
from SDR to US$ when funds were advanced to the Special Account and from US$ to SDR when the advance was recovered.




                                                           - 25 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1    The "sustainability" of a project is defined as the probability of the project maintaining the
achievements generated in relation to the project objective over the economic life of the project, and the
"risk to development outcome" is defined as the potential impact of "changes" on the development impact
and the likelihood of those "changes" occurring. According to these criteria, the sustainability of the
APIP's achievements is considered to be "unlikely" and the risk to the development outcome is rated as
"significant" (see note in paragraph 4.1.1).

6.1.2     In assessing the sustainability of the project, a distinction should be drawn between the
capacity-building and institutional development activities, on the one hand, and the directly-productive
investments made in specific sub-sectors, on the other. In terms of the former, the PMU was funded until
April 2006 to oversee the orderly closure of the APIP, at which point it was effectively disbanded. Many
of the staff trained under the individual components and sub-components of the APIP have been absorbed
back into the regular structure of MAFF and MOWRAM; others have obtained (or are seeking) positions
with other projects, NGOs and donors. As a result, the improved institutional status of MAFF and
MOWRAM has been eroded, although in some cases the trained staff are taken up elsewhere in the
agricultural/rural sector; as a result, there has been a net gain in human resource capacity in the sector,
which gives a positive aspect to the sustainability of the project's achievements, although not in quite the
way it was originally intended.

6.1.3    The MAFF budget for 2006 is essentially for the same total amount as that of 2005. The structure
of salaries has risen by 15 percent but operating costs (especially for fuel) have been reduced by 10
percent. The investment budget is very small, and MAFF has no significant budget for APIP-initiated
activities. A similar picture is presented at MOWRAM. In the case of the Small-scale Agricultural
Hydraulics sub-component, for example, some 47 schemes were constructed under the project but the
investment resources available under the 2006 budget do not allow for the construction of even one new
scheme although there are hundreds of potential candidates.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1    There is, in practice, little transition arrangement to regular operations of the activities achieved
under the project in MAFF and MOWRAM. Both institutions have been improved by the project in terms
of their physical infrastructure, equipment, human resources and operating systems, but the maintenance of
these improved assets will depend to a large extent on the continued receipt by these institutions of external
support from the donor community. It should be emphasized that this state of affairs is not confined to this
project or to these institutions, and many if not most of the problems faced both during project
implementation and post-project are generic issues.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


7.1.1    The overall performance of the IDA during identification, preparation and appraisal of the project
is considered to have been moderately unsatisfactory*. A number of factors described in Section 3.5



                                                        - 26 -

concerning the project's Quality at Entry appear to have predisposed the project to implementation
problems (for example, its ambitious and complex design, its somewhat vague and hard-to-measure
development objective, and insufficient consideration of sustainability issues).

7.1.2     There were several precursors for the APIP. An IDA credit in support of the Emergency
Rehabilitation Project (ERP) was approved in November 1993, but the mid-term review of the project in
November 1994 revealed a lack of well-prepared projects in the agricultural sector and, as a result, funds
ear-marked for it under the project were reduced. The limited capacity of the government to plan and
implement agricultural projects was felt to require incentives and training for staff of MAFF to improve
their performance in project design and implementation and to reduce the need for long-term foreign
technical assistance. In addition, emphasis was placed on the need to maintain a simplicity of project
design and implementation arrangements and to decentralize implementation responsibilities to the
provincial level, but in practice these did not happen. In addition, the main risks seem to have been ignored
in practical terms rather than ameliorated. In terms of sector analysis at that time, UNDP and FAO were
responsible for the production of the Agricultural Development Options Review which was undertaken by
participation of the major stakeholders, thereby promoting collaboration and common problem-solving. By
high-lighting the major potential for and constraints to the development of the agricultural sector in
Cambodia, the results of this process provided a set of reference points for agricultural policy
decision-makers.

7.1.3    The APIP was identified in 1994, and the components of agronomy, livestock, fisheries,
agricultural hydraulics and smallholder rubber emerged from the relatively successful implementation of
similar sub-components under the ERP. The APIP was prepared, pre-appraised and appraised over a
two-year period. Most of the preparation costs were provided from a Japan PHRD grant executed by the
IDA. Additional assistance was provided from bilateral sources and from FAO and FAO-CP. Bank
missions worked closely with MAFF during the preparation period.


7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1    The performance of the IDA in supervising the project is considered to have been only moderately
satisfactory*. The ITF Credit and the IFAD Loan became effective in mid-1997, and the project was
launched. However, the start of project implementation was delayed until mid-1999, its second re-launch,
because of political events. In view of these initial delays, the legal agreements were formally amended in
June 1999 (IDA) and November 1999 (IFAD) to revise the implementation schedule by postponing all
target dates by two years, including the Closing Date which was extended to June 30, 2004. It was later
further extended for some components to December 31, 2005. The Fisheries and Human Resources
Development/Agricultural Education and Training components, and the Agricultural Statistics and
Hydrology Information System sub-components were closed in June 2004. The assistance given by IDA in
supervision missions to technical reviews was considered by several components to have been extremely
helpful in guiding implementation and making adjustments to achieve the objectives.

7.2.2    However, it appears that the opportunity was missed at the time of the MTR to restructure the
project in a substantive way and, as noted in Section 8 below, the budget allocated to such a complex
project was consistently inadequate to provide all of the technical expertise required for supervison.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1    The overall performance of the IDA is considered to have been moderately unsatisfactory*.



                                                      - 27 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1    The performance of the Borrower in the preparation of the project is considered to have been
moderately satisfactory*.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1    The performance of the government in the implementation of the project is considered to have been
moderately unsatisfactory*. The project was designed to be implemented by MAFF through a PSC and the
PMU, but the PSC, although formally established at the beginning of the project, ceased to exist in
practical terms.

7.5.2    Complex procedures concerning the approval of expenditures that had already been agreed to in
annual work plans caused significant delays, and these were compounded by delays in the release of
counterpart funds. The design that called for a simple management and decision-making structure with true
delegation of responsibility for implementation and minimal levels of decision-making and interventions
was therefore thwarted.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1    The performance of the implementing agencies is considered to have been unsatisfactory*. After
the re-launch of the project in mid-1999, the progress of implementation was very slow until the
appointment of a full-time Executive Project Coordinator in mid-2000 even though the technical assistance
was largely in place by mid-1999. At this point, implementation accelerated and close to full compliance
with the successive six-month action plans began to be achieved. By the time of the MTR in mid-2001,
and even after taking into account the formally-revised disbursement projections, the level of disbursements
was low: in part, this reflected " ... the strategic decisions agreed by MAFF and previous missions to
formulate sub-sector strategies before proceeding to related productive investments, and the agreements
to undertake extensive consultations as the basis of these strategies." (MTR PSR).

7.6.2    In addition, the procurement issues described in Section 5 are serious irregularities for which the
implementing agencies were responsible.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1    The overall performance of the Borrower is considered to have been moderately unsatisfactory*.

Note * see note in paragraph 4.1.1




                                                       - 28 -

8. Lessons Learned

8.1 From the implementation experience of the project, a number of lessons can be drawn with
applicability in Cambodia and a wider context.

8.1.1    The special circumstances of Cambodia in the early 1990s must be taken into account in any
attempt to understand the rationale for project design and the idiosyncrasies of project implementation. It
was a text-book example of a "Low Income Country Under Stress" whose human resource base and public
sector apparatus had been severely damaged. Rebuilding the public sector's capacity to support
smallholder agriculture was an essential task, but the project's objective was unrealistically ambitious and
the project's interventions were not accompanied by the broader reforms to allow them to become
sustainable. The project's objective should have been simpler and objectively measurable.

8.1.2    Sustainability can be achieved only if there is ownership within the institutions and interest on the
part of the key players. Agreement at the level of donors is only one key step. Institutional development
requires much more than the provision of buildings and equipment and the training of people.

8.1.3    In order to fill a void, three elements of sub-sectoral strategy were identified to be designed during
the early years of the project and five were added at the MTR. These have been valuable in assisting the
government and in encouraging an informed dialogue between the government and donors.

8.1.4     The preparation of output indicators and the functioning of the whole monitoring and evaluation
system were achieved only late in the life of the project. It is essential that preparatory work (e.g., base-line
studies) and system design should be done as part of project preparation and that the monitoring system
should function from the beginning of a project. Otherwise, output and impact indicators are of little
practical use, serving as the historical record but being of little value in the day-to-day management of the
project. The monitoring and evaluation system indicators should be consistent with the finance and
accounting systems in terms of data and time periods.

8.1.5    Where components were implemented by MAFF Departments, there tended to be a "double"
management structure and, hence, from early in the project emphasis was given to the "main-streaming" of
APIP into the regular structure of MAFF (and MOWRAM) Departments. This occurred to a degree, as
Departments absorbed some of the APIP features, but it was unrealistic to expect that the MAFF would
transform itself in the image of APIP. APIP was fundamentally different from MAFF precisely because it
had funding from IDA and IFAD for a wide range of project interventions. Injecting a project like APIP
into a line ministry inevitably generates certain antagonisms and "turf" conflicts.

8.1.6    Complex procedures concerning the approval of expenditures that had already been agreed to in
annual work plans caused significant delays, compounded by delays in the release of counterpart funds.
The management and decision-making structure should be as simple as possible, with true delegation of
responsibility for implementation and minimal levels of decision-making and interventions.

8.1.7    An important reason that project design should be kept simple is to enable adequate supervision to
be provided by IDA. As a result of its complexity, with nine components and eighteen sub-components, the
IDA budget for supervision was consistently inadequate to include the required technical expertise in every
supervision mission. As a result, some components could not receive appropriate technical guidance.




                                                      - 29 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

9.1     The implementing agencies, MAFF and MOWRAM, have prepared and presented to the IDA
Borrower Completion Reports on individual components and sub-components, as well a synthesis report
for the whole project. These reports are available in the Project File and a summary of the synthesis
Completion Report is presented in Annex 9.

9.2     No comments of the Borrower on this ICR had been received before December 8, 2006.


(b) Cofinanciers:

9.3     IFAD has prepared a Project Completion Report on the Animal Health and Production Component.
This is available in the Project Files, and the Executive Summary of the report is presented in Annex 10.

9.4     No comments of IFAD on this ICR had been received before December 8, 2006.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

9.5     There were no other partners formally involved with the project, although technical assistance was
provided by several donors.


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                           1
                 Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
Quantity of foundation and extension seed   15,700; 15,250                      323.5
availability in tons.
Integrated Pest Management (IPM): number 16,000; 16,000                         20,336
and adoption rates of trained farmers.      0.80; 0.60                          0.80
Measurable reduction in animal mortality    Adult buffalo    0.07; 0.05         0.11
rates, %, in project provinces.             Adult cattle     0.06; 0.06         0.04
                                            Adult pigs       0.20; 0.15         0.16
                                            Breeding poultry 0.20; 0.20         not available
                                            Chickens         0.40; 0.25         3.54
Number of rehabilitated small-scale         50; 20                              47
agricultural hydraulics schemes
Adequacy of maintenance and operation of    undefined                           undefined
small-scale schemes, %.
Freshwater fish fry produced (millions)     5.0; 5.0                            1.1
Freshwater fingerlings produced (millions)  2.0; 2.0                            0.26

Projections at appraisal and mid-term review


Output Indicators:
                                                                           1
                 Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
Submission of national seed strategy        1; 1                                1
- Approval of strategy                      1; 1                                1
Submission of national animal health and    1; 1                                1
production strategy                         1; 1                                1
- Approval of strategy                      1; 1                                1
Submission of national water resource       1; 1                                1
strategy
- Approval of strategy                      ns; 1                               1
Submission of revised Water Law             ns; 1                               1
- Adoption of Law                           ns; 1                               not yet adopted
Submission of national plan for village     ns; 1                               1
veterinarians
Submission of fisheries master plan         ns; 1                               1
- Endorsement of master plan by MAFF        ns; 1                               not yet endorsed
Submission of revised Fisheries Law         ns; 1                               1
- - Adoption of Law                         ns; 1                               not yet adopted
Submission of strategy for agricultural     ns; 1                               1
education
- Endorsement of strategy                   ns; 1                               not yet endorsed

Submission of project manual on financial   ns; 1                               1
procedures
Submission of project manual on             ns; 1                               1
procurement procedures
Submission of project manual on HRD policy ns; 1                                1
and procedures


Agronomy:
Total number of compost demonstrations      ns; ns                              2,400
Total number of on-farm fertilizer and      ns; 250                             450
compost trials
Total number of soil fertility trainers     ns; 90                              91


Animal Health and Production:
Animal health workers trained (% women)     800 (30%); unknown                  2,800 (14%)
Field trials for ruminant feed production   ns; ns                              64


Smallholder Rubber Research:
Field trials established                    72                                  63




                                                             - 31 -

Agro-meteorology stations established         8; 8                                     8


Agricultural Planning and Statistics:
Provinces carrying out crop yield surveys     14                                       17
Staff trained                                 30                                       ?????


Facilities and Equipment:                     not specified in the SAR or the MTR
New buildings constructed                                                              31
Buildings renovated                                                                    27
Road elevation, 1000 metres (at Bati)                                                  1
Main dike renovation, 1500 metres (at Bati)                                            1
Fence construction (at Bati and Chamka Leu)                                            2
Pond renovation and construction
Irrigation tube-well at Kbal Koh horticulture                                          15
research station                                                                       1
Vehicles
Motorcycles                                                                            72
Bicycles                                                                               494
Solar panel array (at Bati)                                                            850
Generators                                                                             1
Trucks                                                                                 18
Tractors                                                                               2
Seed processing plants (Chamka Leu & Tuol                                              6
Sam Rong)                                                                              2
Fish feed plant (at Bati)
Inboard boat engines (Fisheries)                                                       1
Boats (DAHP)                                                                           8
Desk-top computers                                                                     3
Notebook computers                                                                     210
Printers                                                                               28
Photocopiers                                                                           183
Scanners                                                                               105
Over-head projectors                                                                   28
LCD projectors                                                                         14
Slide projectors                                                                       13
Digital cameras                                                                        2
35 mm cameras                                                                          21
Video cameras                                                                          10
Television sets                                                                        7
Telephone/fax machines                                                                 4
                                                                                       26

1End of project
    Projections at appraisal amd mid-term review
    ns - not specified
   "submission" is defined as a draft that has been vetted by stakeholders and submitted to IDA, and has received a "no
objection"




                                                                 - 32 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal        Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate           Estimate           Appraisal
                         Component                                  US$ million         US$ million
Agronomy, Seeds and Plant Protection                                      9.35                6.64               65.2
Animal Health and Production                                              4.89                4.63               85.9
Agricultural Hydraulics                                                   5.30                6.71              114.6
Fisheries                                                                 2.96                2.02               64.1
Smallholder Rubber Research                                               1.71                1.03               53.6
Human Resources Management [incl. Agricultural                            1.75                0.91               48.4
Education and Training]
Support to Provincial Departments of Agriculture                          0.38                0.20               46.2
Agricultural Planning and Statistics                                      2.86                2.31               74.3
Project Management Unit                                                   3.01                2.69               84.9
MAFF Strengthening [goods and equipment]                                                      0.05

Total Baseline Cost                                                     32.21                27.19
 Physical Contingencies                                                   0.95
 Price Contingencies                                                      1.94
                            Total Project Costs                         35.10                27.19
                    Total Financing Required                            35.10                27.19
Note: Actual costs are expressed as a percentage of the appraisal cost estimates including contingency provisions




                                                       - 33 -

Revised Project Costs at Mid-Term Review (in US$ million equivalent)
    Component/sub-component                    Proposed Adjustment              Appraisa Revised Ac Actu
                                                                                 l Cost   Cost   tu al
                                                                                Estimate Estimate al Cost
                                                                                                 Coas %
                                                                                                  st  of
                                                                                                     Revi
                                                                                                     sed
                                                                                                     Cost
Agronomy, Seeds and Plant                                                        10.18     9.28  6.6 71.5
Protection                                                                                       39
Capacity building                    -                                             1.59    1.93  1.9 102.6
                                                                                                 80
Soil fertility management            -                                             1.05    1.30  0.6 51.1
                                                                                                 64
Farming systems and crop             Grant-funded technical assistance             0.99    0.37  0.3 83.8
diversification                                                                                  10

Seed production                      Commercialization of seed farms               3.70    2.94  1.5 54.0
                                                                                                 87
Plant protection service             -                                             1.20    1.38  0.9 68.0
                                                                                                 38
Integrated pest management           Impact assessment                             1.65    1.36  1.1 85.4
                                                                                                 61
Animal Health and Production                                                       5.39    4.79  4.6 96.6
                                                                                                 27
Disease control and management       Additional laboratory development             2.68    1.92  1.3 69.8
                                                                                                 41
Animal health                        Veterinary pharmacy cancelled,                2.48    2.40  3.2 124.3
                                     additional field workers hired                              22

Animal production                    Additional policy work and field programs     0.23    0.47  0.0 13.6
                                                                                                 64
Agricultural Hydraulics                                                            5.85    5.36  6.7 125.1
                                                                                                 05
Capacity building                    Coordination with ADB                         0.75    0.85  1.0 127.1
                                                                                                 80
Hydrology information systems        Reduction of TA and expansion of              1.13    0.81  0.2 26.8
                                     coverage                                                    17

Small-scale agricultural hydraulics  Reduction from 50 to 20 schemes with          2.99    2.82  5.1 183.5
                                     higher unit cost                                            74

Medium-scale agricultural hydraulics Additional feasibility study or studies       0.98    0.88  0.2 26.7
                                                                                                 35
Fisheries                                                                          3.15    2.58  2.0 78.2
                                                                                                 17
Capacity building                    Additional consultations with stakeholders    0.57    1.00  0.6 66.6
                                                                                                 66
Conservation and management          Preparation studies and monitoring            1.54    0.84  0.1 22.1
                                                                                                 86
Freshwater fisheries research        New location                                  1.04    0.74  1.1 157.4
                                                                                                 65
Smallholder Rubber Research                                                        1.93    1.51  1.0 68.3
                                                                                                 31
Agricultural Planning and Statistics                                               3.11    2.81  2.3 82.2
                                                                                                 09




                                                     - 34 -

Planning                          Remove technical assistance             0.99  0.63  0.3 55.7
                                                                                      51
Statistics                        Expand geographical coverage            2.12  2.18  1.9 89.8
                                                                                      58
Support to Provincial Departments Development of linkages with APIP      0.44   0.32  0.2 63.8
of Agriculture                                                                        04
Human Resource Development and Focus on priority groups in MAFF          1.05   0.67
Training                                                                              0.9 51.8

Agricultural Education            Implementation of national strategy    0.83   1.10  17

Project Management Unit          -                                       3.17   2.84  2.6 94.9
                                                                                      94
MAFF Strengthening                                                                    0.0  -
                                                                                      54
Total                                                                    35.10  31.26 27. 87.0
                                                                                      19
                                                                                      7




                                               - 35 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                1
                                          Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category        ICB           NCB                 2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                            Other
1. Works                        0.70          1.37           2.26            0.51         4.84
                               (0.56)         (1.09)        (1.81)           (0.00)      (3.46)
2. Goods                        5.07          1.20           2.02            1.34         9.63
                               (4.84)         (1.08)        (1.60)           (0.00)      (7.52)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00           7.66            1.03         8.69
[Consulting services and       (0.00)         (0.00)        (7.66)           (0.00)      (7.66)
studies]
4. Overseas Training            0.00          0.00           0.76            0.14         0.90
                               (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.76)           (0.00)      (0.76)
6. Local Training               0.00          0.00           5.33            1.28         6.61
                               (0.00)         (0.00)        (5.33)           (0.00)      (5.33)
Project Operating               0.00          0.00           3.35            1.10         4.45
Expenses                       (0.00)         (0.00)        (2.27)           (0.00)      (2.27)
   Total                        5.77          2.57          21.38            5.40         35.12
                               (5.40)         (2.17)       (19.43)           (0.00)      (27.00)




                                           - 36 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                           Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB                NCB                     2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 3.15               2.56               1.18            0.00             6.89
                                           (2.52)             (2.04)            (0.94)            (0.00)          (5.50)
   2. Goods                                 3.89               0.21               1.61            0.00             5.71
                                           (3.57)             (0.19)            (1.31)            (0.00)          (5.07)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00               6.18            0.00             6.18
   [Consulting services and                (0.00)             (0.00)            (6.18)            (0.00)          (6.18)
   studies]
   4. Overseas Training                     0.00               0.00               0.18            0.00             0.18
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.18)            (0.00)          (0.18)
   6. Local Training                        0.00               0.00               6.08            0.00             6.08
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (6.08)            (0.00)          (6.08)
   Project Operating                        0.00               0.00               2.15            0.00             2.15
   Expenses                                (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.46)            (0.00)          (1.46)
        Total                               7.04               2.77              17.38            0.00             27.19
                                           (6.09)             (2.23)           (16.15)            (0.00)          (24.47)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                    Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 IDA        Govt.         CoF.         IDA         Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.   CoF.
Agronomy, Seeds and Plant        9.18       1.01          0.00         5.95        0.68       0.00       64.8     67.3     0.0
Protection
Animal Health and                0.00       0.64          4.75         0.00        0.49       4.14        0.0     76.6    87.2
Production
Agricultural Hydraulics          5.22       0.63          0.00         5.58        1.13       0.00       106.9    179.4    0.0
Fisheries                        2.82       0.33          0.00         1.79        0.23       0.00       63.5     69.7     0.0
Smallholder Rubber               1.57       0.35          0.00         0.85        0.18       0.00       54.1     51.4     0.0
Research
Human Resources                  1.79       0.09          0.00         0.89        0.03       0.00       49.7     33.3     0.0
Management
Support to Provincial            0.32       0.12          0.00         0.20        0.01       0.00       62.5     8.3      0.0
Departments of Agric.
Agriculture Planning and         2.96       0.14          0.00         2.15        0.16       0.00       72.6     114.3    0.0
Statistics
Project Management Unit          3.13       0.04          0.00         2.57        0.12       0.00       82.1     300.0    0.0
MAFF Strengthening               0.00       0.00          0.00         0.05        0.01       0.00        0.0     0.0      0.0
Total                           27.00       3.36          4.75         20.03       3.04       4.14       74.2     90.5    87.2

   The totals are correct; there are rounding errors in the sub-totals.



                                                            - 37 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The Animal Health and Production Component: Economic Impacts [4]

1.       Unlike irrigated agriculture, where the outputs and impact can be easily measured in terms of the
areas brought into production and yields, livestock production is a dynamic system that is very responsive
to market forces. For poor farmers, livestock are assets that can be sold when required to meet social needs
or to offset crop failures, etc. Simple quantification of livestock numbers is an inadequate measure of
productivity or total production. Animal health measures may result in a substantial increase in the number
of animals that survive but most of these will be sold for slaughter (instead of dying from disease) and there
may only be a minimal increase in livestock population. The project did not identify an effective means of
measuring in physical or financial terms the impact of the animal health measures that it supported ­ the
attempts to quantify mortality and morbidity were ineffective. However, there is a much anecdotal
evidence to indicate that the project has had a substantial impact on livestock production.

2.       The most obvious increase in the productive assets of individual households has been the expansion
and improvement of their pig production. This is particularly evident in the case of the VAHWs where
most of them are now applying the knowledge gained through training under the project to engage in a more
intensive pig production. This involves vaccination for a comprehensive range of diseases, internal and
external parasite control, improved sanitation and the use of small quantities of feed concentrates. These
units have led the way for many other farmers to follow. The dynamics of this is now obvious in most
project villages and the process of improving production is gaining momentum. It is apparent the project
has contributed substantially to improving the cash incomes of many small-scale pig producers. Caution
will need to be exercised as more farmers move into more commercial pig production. There is the
potential for a rapid expansion of production but the market for pigs can be volatile with prices fluctuating
widely. At the same time, Vietnam is a major and very efficient producer of high-quality pigs that
command a premium in the Phnom Penh market ­ any oversupply in Vietnam could severely undermine
returns to small producers in Cambodia and any attempt at import controls would be futile.

3.       At appraisal, it was expected that improved poultry production would also make a major
contribution to improving the incomes of poor households but in general the impact has been minimal. It
appears that fewer farmers are prepared to pay for vaccinating poultry and their numbers and value in most
cases make it unprofitable for the VAHW (or the farmer) to purchase the vaccine. In addition, there are
numerous reported cases of poultry dying even when they have been vaccinated. While there may be many
causes for this happening, the consequence has, in many cases, been a loss of confidence among farmers in
the effectiveness of vaccination.

4.       No reliable quantitative data has been collected during project implementation concerning the
impact of the animal health measures on cattle and buffalo productivity While substantial numbers of
animals have been vaccinated for haemorrhagic septicaemia (HS), vaccine was always in short supply and
DAHP/OAHP did not allocate vaccine preferentially to project provinces or districts. This has made it
almost impossible to separate the "with project" from the "without project" situation. However, there is
substantial anecdotal evidence that the impact of the project has been very substantial, not only through
vaccination but also through treatment of cattle and buffalo with HS and other diseases. Because VAHWs
are now operating and have been trained to recognize the early symptoms and to treat several important
diseases, many animals that would normally have died are being successfully treated. For the farmers
concerned this has provided major benefits because even an individual animal saved can have a major
impact on the asset base and financial viability of the household concerned. Clearly the overall impact of
the project on physical and financial assets of farmers, particularly the poorer farming households, has



                                                     - 38 -

been substantial. However, it is unfortunate that more attention was not paid to identifying a better means
to quantify this result. Further consideration should be given to doing this prior to the formal closure of the
project or in the immediate post-project period

5.       Other than the income that is earned by VAHWs, it is very difficult to quantify the direct impact
the project has had on reducing poverty in the project area. However, the impact of vaccination programs
and the increased availability of veterinary services has without doubt reduced animal losses and reduced
the risk associated with raising livestock. This will have had a substantial impact on farm incomes.
Because the mechanism for the delivery of these services is through the private sector and the VAHWs
have already shown both that they can make money and that there is a continuing demand for their services,
it would appear that the sustainability of the impact on income generation and poverty reduction is also
likely to be substantial.

The Small-scale Agricultural Hydraulics Sub-component: Socio-Economic Analysis [5]

6.       The APIP small-scale irrigation (sub) component can be regarded as a success both in assisting
poverty reduction and in demonstrating the significant part which small projects and schemes, often based
on ancient schemes devised by local farmers, can play in specific areas of agricultural water resource
development and management. This is notably the case in respect of flood control and in the reduction of
drought and flooding of crops. Estimated post-project yields indicate at least a doubling of overall
production by project farmers, brought about partly by improved wet- and, in some projects, dry-season
irrigation but also, to a significant degree, by reduced crop losses previously suffered through flood or
drought. A high proportion of projects also shows the benefits of the adoption of high-yielding rice
varieties, crop chemicals, composting or other innovations which have accompanied small-scale irrigation,
often with NGO support. These improvements have been achieved despite the generally poor performance
of farmer organizations set up at the time of project implementation. Farmer Water Users Committees and
Farmer Water Users Groups in most projects have been unable to get the support of all farmers or to
collect water-user fees to provide for operation and maintenance. One reason for this is the differing
interests in seasonal water availability of farmers with plots in different areas and with different crops.
There has, however, also been a general failure to provide for any sustained training or technical support
for the organizations put in place, mainly because the Provincial Department of Water Resources and
Meteorology and the Provincial Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries lack the resources to
carry out extension programmes.




                                                      - 39 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              November 1994
              identification
              March 1995
              preparation
              February 1996
              preparation

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              June 1996
              appraisal
              June 24-27, 1996
              negotiations

 Supervision
              May 19-27, 1997
              project launch

              February 3, 1998           2    Agronomist, Institutional             S               S
                                              Development Specialist
              May 14, 1998               2    Agronomist, Financial                 S               S
                                              Management Specialist
              November 18, 1998          2    Agronomist, Institutional             S               S
                                              Development Specialist
              February 11, 1999          2    Agronomist, Financial                 S               S
                                              Management Specialist
              May 20, 1999               2    Agronomist, Financial                 S               S
                                              Management Specialist
              June 6, 2000               2    Agronomist, Financial                 U               S
                                              Management Specialist
              December 12, 2000          4    Agronomist, Financial                 S               S
                                              Management Specialist,
                                              Aquaculture Specialist, Animal
                                              Health Specialist
              May 20 - June 8,          10    Mid-term Review:                      S               S
              2001                            Agronomist, Livestock Specialist
                                              (2), Water Resource Management
                                              Specialist, Rural Development
                                              Specialist, Aquaculture
                                              Specialist, Consultant Financial
                                              Management Specialist,
                                              Consultant Institutional
                                              Specialist, IFAD Country
                                              Portfolio Manager, Consultant
                                              Economist
              February 22, 2002          9    Agronomist, Rural Development         S               S
                                              Specialist, Water Resource



                                               - 40 -

                             Specialist, Aquaculture
                             Specialist, Consultant Financial
                             Management Specialist,
                             Consultant Livestock Specialist,
                             Consultant Gender Specialist,
                             Consultant Economist,
                             Consultant Agronomist
      May 15, 2002         4 Agronomist, Rural Development       S    S
                             Specialist, Consultant Financial
                             Management Specialist
                             Consultant Gender Specialist
      December 12, 2002    7 Agronomist, Agricultural            U    S
                             Economist, Consultant Financial
                             Management Specialist,
                             Consultant Gender Specialist,
                             Water Resource Specialist,
                             Consultant Economist,
                             Consultant Agronomist
      May 9, 2003          2 Consultant Financial                U    S
                             Management Specialist,
                             Agricultural Economist
      October 15, 2003     9 Agronomist, Agricultural            S    S
                             Economist (2), Consultant
                             Financial Management
                             Specialist, Water Resource
                             Specialist, Social Development
                             Specialist, Consultant Economist,
                             Consultant Livestock Specialist,
                             Consultant Seed Specialist
      May 21, 2004         5 Agronomist, Agricultural            S    S
                             Economists (2), Consultant
                             Financial Management
                             Specialist, Social Development
                             Specialist
      October 28, 2004     5 Agronomist, Agricultural            S    S
                             Economist, Consultant Financial
                             Management Specialist, Social
                             Development Specialist, Rural
                             Development Specialist
      March 21-29, 2005                                          U    U
      October              4 Agronomist, Rural Development       S    S
      24-November 5,         Specialist, Social Development
      2005                   Specialist, Consultant Financial
                             Management Specialist

ICR
      March 13 - April     3 Agricultural Economist,             S    S
      3, 2006                Economist, Rural
                             Development Specialist




                             - 41 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                           Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                                           *
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                         254,600
  Supervision                                                                   602,710
  ICR                                                                            42,502
  Total                                                                         899,812

Note: * Identification and preparation costs are included with appraisal and negotiation costs.




                                                       - 42 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 43 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 44 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Documents:

1.   Animal Health and Production Component: Evaluation: John Walsh (Consultant): October 17, 2003
2.   Animal Health and Production Component: Project Completion Report: IFAD: December 29, 2005
3.   Socio-Economic Evaluation of Small-Scale Irrigation Projects: APIP Agriculture Hydraulics
    Component: Pilgrim Associates: December 30, 2005 and revised April 19, 2006
4.  Agriculture Productivity Improvement Project, IDA Development Credit Agreement No. 011-KH,
    March 26, 1997
5.  Agriculture Productivity Improvement Project, IFAD Loan Agreement No. 423-KH,
    September 27, 1996
6.  Agriculture Productivity Improvement Project, Staff Appraisal Report No. 15984-KH,
    January 31, 1997
7.  Agronomy Component: Completion Report June 1999 to December 2005
8.  Final Report of Agricultural Policy Planning and Support to PDAFF Sub-component, February 2006
9.  Final Report on HRD/TM Component June 1999 to June 2004
10. The Fisheries Component End of Project Report, February 2006
11. Gender PMU: End of Project Report April 2002 to December 2005
12. Completion Report on Smallholder Rubber Research
13. Animal Health and Production Component: Final Report July 1995 to December 2005
14. The Agricultural Education and Training Component: End of Project Report (August 1999 to June
2004): June 2004
15. Final Report of Agricultural Hydraulics Component
16. Implementation Completion Report, MAFF/APIP: First Draft March 2006
17. Report of Consultancy on the Assessment of the Impact of the IPM Programme at Field Level:
DANIDA: May 2003
18. Report of Consultancy on the Assessment of the Integrated Rice-Fish-vegetable Farmer Field Schools:
DANIDA: September 2005
19. Final Report of Chief Project Adviser/Team Leader PMU: December 10, 2002
20. Economic and Financial Viability of Small-scale Hydraulic Schemes in Kampong Thom and Kratie
Provinces: John Young (consultant): September 2006

Text Notes:

1. Raising and Sustaining Productivity of Smallholder Farming Systems in the Tropics: Willem C. Beets:
Agbé Publishing, Holland, 1990
2. Cambodia: From Rehabilitation to Reconstruction: World Bank: February 1994
3. Socio-economic Evaluation of Small-Scale Irrigation Projects: Pilgrim Associates: revised April 19,
2006
4. summarized from the Completion Report prepared by IFAD for the Animal Health and Production
Component
5. summarized from the Socio-Economic Evaluation of Small-Scale Irrigation Projects: Pilgrim Associates




                                                  - 45 -

Additional Annex 8. Compliance with DCA Conditions


DCA Reference           Condition                                             Action Taken
Section 3.01 (b)        The Borrower shall carry out the Project in           Partially complied with
Implementation of the   accordance with the Project Implementation
Project                 Program set out in Schedule 4 of the DCA.
Section 3.03            The Borrower shall prepare a plan for the future      Not yet complied with
Future operation of the operation of the project within six months of the
Project                 Closing Date of the Credit and give the IDA the
                        opportunity to comment on it.
Section 4.01            The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts to Complied with
Financial Covenants     reflect the expenditures of the Project, have the
                        records properly audited and send a copy of the audit
                        report to the IDA within six months of the end of
                        each fiscal year.
Section 6.01            As additional conditions of effectiveness, the       Both the PSC and the PMU were established
Project Steering        Borrower shall: (a) establish the Project Steering
Committee and Project   Committee (PSC) and appoint its principal
Management Unit         members; and (b) establish the Project Management
                        Unit (PMU) and appoint its Chief and Deputy Chief.
Schedule 4, paragraph 2The Borrower shall maintain the PSC until the          Not complied with. The PSC ceased to
Project Support Unit    completion of the Project, to be responsible for      function shortly after project
                        approving annual work plans and budgets,              implementation began. Several key
                        evaluating its implementation and reporting on its    members left their positions in government
                        progress to the Borrower and the IDA.                 and the necessary paper-work to nominate
                                                                              their successors as PSC members was not
                                                                              processed.
Schedule 4, paragraph 3The Borrower shall maintain the PMU until the          Complied with.
Project Management      completion of the Project with adequate resources
Unit                    and staff, to be responsible for coordinating and
                        supervising the overall implementation of the Project
                        and reporting on its progress to the PSC.
Schedule 4, paragraph 4 The Borrower shall send to the IDA not later than    After an initial delay, this was
Annual work program     December 31 each year, beginning in 1997, an         complied with.
and budget              annual work program and related budget for project
                        implementation (in the forthcoming year).
                        [The revised date for presentation of the initial
                        report was December 31, 2000.]
Schedule 4, paragraph 5The Borrower shall send to the IDA not later than      The three strategies were completed,
Strategies              December 31, 1998, national strategies for (a) seeds  though later than the specified date.
                        improvement; (b) animal health and production; and
                        (c) water resource use. Each strategy should contain
                        cost recovery measures, provision for operational
                        maintenance and an action plan for implementation.
                        After discussion with IDA, the Borrower will
                        implement the strategies.
                        [The revised date for presentation of the strategies
                        was December 31, 2000.]




                                                       - 46 -

Schedule 4, paragraph 6The Borrower shall carry out a study of MAFF's         After an initial delay, this was complied
Study of planning and internal planning and budgeting system and              with.
budgeting in MAFF       procedures. Not later than September 30, 1997, it
                        will share the results with the IDA, and carry out the
                        recommendations.
                        [The revised date for presentation of the study was
                        September 30, 1999.]
Schedule 4, paragraph 7The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,        After an initial delay, this was complied
National plan for       1997, adopt and implement a national plan for         with.
village veterinaries    training, registering and licensing village
                        veterinarians.
                        [The revised date for presentation of the plan was
                        December 31, 1999.]
Schedule 4, paragraph 8Not later than December 31 of each year, beginning     Complied with
Training plan           in 1997, the Borrower shall send a training plan for
                        the forthcoming fiscal year to the IDA and after
                        receiving comments shall implement the plan.
                        [The revised date for presentation of the first plan
                        was December 31, 2000.]
Schedule 4, paragraph 9The Borrower shall: (a) maintain policies and          Complied with.
Project Progress        procedures to monitor and evaluate the project and
Reports and Reviews     the achievement of its objectives: (b) submit to IDA
                        by June 30 and December 31 of each year a
                        semi-annual Progress Report on Project
                        implementation; (c) (i) prepare a report not later
                        than April 30, 1999 on the progress achieved in the
                        implementation of the Project: (ii) review the report
                        with the IDA not later than June 30, 1999; and (iii)
                        based on the report and IDA's views, take all
                        measures to complete the Project and achieve the
                        objectives.
                        [The revised date for presentation of the report
                        specified in (c) (i) above was April 30, 2001, and the
                        revised date for (c) (ii) was June 30, 2001.]
Schedule 4, paragraph 10Not later than June 30, 1999, the Borrower shall      This requirement appears to duplicate the
Mid-term review         carry out a mid-term review of the progress achieved requirement under Schedule 4, paragraph 9
                        to date in the project and taking into account IDA's (c).
                        recommendations shall take all remedial actions
                        necessary to achieve the objectives of the Project.
                        [The revised date for presentation of the completion
                        of the MTR was June 30, 2001.]




                                                        - 47 -

Additional Annex 9. Summary* of the Borrower's Completion Report

1. INTRODUCTION

1. The World Bank's Emergency Rehabilitation Project for Cambodia (Credit 2550-KH) was approved
in November 1993. Following the MTR of that project in October 1994, the amount earmarked for
agriculture (and some other sectors) was reduced. The reasons for this were a lack of well-prepared
rehabilitation projects and a pressing need to reallocate funds to investments in the power sector and for
general imports. From this experience, two conclusions were drawn:

(a) The absorptive capacity of government staff to plan and implement projects was limited and need to
be supplemented with technical assistance; and

(b) Systems for making timely transfer of funds to the line departments and provinces were weak, despite
efforts being made in the MEF to overhaul the budgetary system.

2. Two recommendations arose from these conclusions:

(a) Local staff need to be involved in project design and implementation at an early stage, incentives for
staff initiative and performance need to be improved, and relevant and better organized training programs
need to be created if long-term dependency on foreign technical assistance is to be avoided;

(b) Project design and management arrangements must be kept simple in terms of their demands on
central government coordination and implementation capacity, with attention being paid to decentralizing
responsibility for implementation to the provincial levels.

3. These conclusions and recommendations were taken into account when the APIP was conceived in
1994. From the outset, the challenge and purpose of the project was "... to rebuild the government's
capacity to plan, formulate and execute agricultural and rural development programs.". The way of
doing this would be through a series of activities in line departments which tackled problems confronting
the departments themselves and their customers - farmers, traders and consumers. Outputs from these
activities would be delivered at the pace required to learn by doing. The planned term of the project was
five years.

1.1 Project Financing

4. To finance the project, the IDA, as Administrator of the ITF, agreed to provide an ITF Credit of
SDR18.8 million. In addition to this, the IFAD agreed to provide a loan of SDR3.30 million to assist in
the implementation of a component dealing with animal health and production. The MEF, as the
representative of the Kingdom of Cambodia (the Borrower), signed separate loan agreements with IDA on
26 March 1997 and IFAD on 27 September 1996. The initial closing date for the loans was 30 June
2002. Counterpart funding of $3,356,000 was to be provided by the Borrower.

[* Note: This summary was prepared by the authors of the ICR based on the Completion Report prepared by the
PMU of the project. Because the structure of the Borrower's Completion Report is based on a detailed
description of the implementation experiences of the project's components, there is some repetition between
sections and especially in the "Lessons Learned". This summary has attempted to minimize these repetitions as
far as possible.]




                                                     - 48 -

1.2 Project Launch

5. The project was launched first in mid-1997 but political events followed soon thereafter. It was
re-launched in June 1998 after TA bids had been called in April 1998. Interim TA for the PMU
comprised three persons to assist with the preparation of the first work plan, to commence procurement
and to establish financial management system.

1.3 Mid-term Review

6. Article 10 in the amended Schedule 4 to the DCA required the Borrower to conduct, by 30 June 2000,
a comprehensive MTR of progress achieved in implementing the project and to make any adjustments
needed to achieve its objectives. The MTR was undertaken from 21 May to 07 June 2001. The review
team comprised five IDA staff, two IFAD staff and three external consultants.

1.4 Amendment of Loan Agreement

7. An IDA Review Mission in February 1999 recognized the reasons for these start-up delays. It was
agreed to support the Borrower's request to postpone the project implementation schedule by two years
and to amend dated legal covenants accordingly. IDA and IFAD formally approved this in letters to MEF
on 22 June 1999 and on 10 November 1999, respectively. The initial start-up date of 1997 was amended
to 1999, and the expected date of completion was amended to 31 December 2003. Later, the closing dates
for the IDA Credit and the IFAD Loan were extended by two years to 30 June 2004.

8. Following the government's wishes to pursue an expansion of project activities to benefit a wider
number of small farmers throughout the country, the IDA agreed to extend the closing date for some
components (i.e., DAALI, DAHP, MOWRAM, SRRC, DPSIC and PMU) until December 31, 2005.

1.5 Project Structure

9. The MAFF was responsible for project implementation through a PSC and a PMU. The project
comprises nine components addressing priority development needs of the MAFF.

10. The components are shown in Table 1 as named in the Development Credit and Loan Agreements,
together with the MAFF departments or posts responsible and a short name for use in subsequent text,
tables and figures. Organization of the components by responsible departments of MAFF was adopted to
facilitate preparation and management of the project. Nevertheless, substantial collaboration to
implement the project was expected among the departments in Phnom Penh and in the provinces.

Table 1 APIP components as named in the Development Credit and Loan Agreements
 Component                                         MAFF Department or Post          Short name
 Part A. Agronomy, Seeds and Plant Protection       DAALI                           Agronomy
 Part B. Animal Health and Production               DAPH                            Animal Health
 Part C. Agricultural Hydraulics                    MOWRAM                          Hydraulics
 Part D. Fisheries                                  DoF                             Fisheries
 Part E. Smallholder Rubber Research                DGPH                            Rubber
 Part F. MAFF Strengthening
 - Agricultural Planning & Statistics               DPSIC                           Plan/Stats
 - Human Resource Management & Development          DoP                             HRM&D




                                                 - 49 -

 - Provincial Agricultural Services                                                  PAS
 - Project Management Unit                                                           PMU


11. This design was claimed to be sufficiently flexible and comprehensive to provide a framework
capable of absorbing technical assistance and other interventions for the institutional strengthening of
MAFF which may be provided by other donor agencies. It also facilitated the engagement of different
contractors to provide technical assistance to each of these Parts. Provision of TA to the PMU was
provided under the contract for Part F.

12. Initially, the Director-General of MAFF was responsible for Provincial Agricultural Services.
From July 2000 the PMU was made responsible. Since the MTR in June 2001, DPSIC has been
responsible for this component.

13. In December 1999, the HRM&D was split into two components to become Human Resources
Development/Training Management (HRD/TM) and Agricultural Education and Training (AET).

14. Overall responsibility for the project was vested in a Secretary of State who was Chairman of the
PMU. However, an Executive Project Coordinator was appointed in April 2000 to assist the Secretary of
State in the operational management of the project. The composition of the PMU was:

H.E. Chan Tong Yves              Secretary of State and Chairman of PMU
H.E. Meas Kim Suwaro             Under-Secretary of State and Executive Project Coordinator (EPC)
Mr. Thoch Meng Kheang            Vice-chairman
Mr. Nhep Chan Thet               Chief of Planning, Accounting and Finance
Mr. Che Savun                    Vice-chief of Planning, Accounting and Finance
Mr. Koam Sokun                   Procurement Officer
Mr. Suth Somboun                 Administration Officer
Mr. Duong Kim Chhean             Monitoring and Evaluation Officer.

15. National Coordinator: the National Coordinators of APIP components were the deputy directors
of the departments, except the NC of SRRC, who was General Director of DGPH, the NC of
Agricultural Hydraulics, who was technical General Director of MOWRAM, and the NC of DPSIC and
DAALI was promoted to become director.

16. Project Steering Committee: Membership of the PSC comprised the principal representatives
from each of the following departments and agencies of the Borrower: DAALI, DAHP, MOWRAM,
DOF, DGPH, and SPDA. The Chairman of the PSC was the Minister of MAFF and the Vice-Chairman
was the Secretary of State. Other members mentioned in the SAR were the Director General of MAFF,
DGPH, Director of Agronomy, Livestock, Fisheries, Personnel, Director-General of GDIHM, Director of
Planning, Statistics and International Cooperation, and Principal of Prek Leap National School of
Agriculture. In practice, the project steering committee has not functioned due to several changes of
members.

17. By 30 June 2004, three components (Fisheries, HRD and AET) and two sub-components,
Agricultural Statistics and Hydrology Information, were also closed. The remaining components
continued their implementation until 31 December 2005, except for DAHP and PMU which continued
until 30 April 2006.

2. APIP OBJECTIVES


                                                   - 50 -

18. At the MTR, the range of stated objectives in the SAR and other key project documents were
re-worked hierarchically to determined a Sectoral Goal, a PDO and Outputs which could be expected to
contribute to them. The results were discussed and revised with APIP local staff, the TA and IDA staff.

2.1 National or Sectoral Goal

19. The sector goal of the APIP was "Improved food security and Increased rural incomes", in line with
the goals of government policy in the agricultural sector. In the longer term, the agricultural sector is also
expected to earn needed foreign exchange through exported surpluses, save foreign exchange through
import substitution, and contribute government revenue to cover investment and recurrent costs of
providing public services to the sector. This goal recognizes Cambodia's commitment to a market-based
economic development strategy. It also recognizes that: aggregate agricultural production is a function of
decisions made by individual farmers, who already invest their own resources in agricultural production
at high risk and for low returns (crop losses, crop failure, livestock disease/mortality, civil insecurity,
unknown markets); and reduced risks and increased returns could be achieved through improved farmer
access to information, appropriate technology, inputs and markets.

2.2 Project Development Objective

20. APIP derives its name from the PDO which is the sustainable and broad-based improvement of
smallholder agricultural productivity. MAFF is the government ministry with primary responsibility for
agricultural production and productivity. MAFF's mission statement says that its role is " ... to support
the economic growth of Cambodia by providing high quality services which result in a secure food
supply and increased agricultural output, and which add value on a sustainable and cost effective basis
to the agricultural, fishing and forest-based sectors.". Thus its evolving role within a market economy
will be:

(a) to create an environment wherein smallholder farmers, who are predominantly poor and largely
excluded from the market economy, can gain access to basic agricultural services and the opportunity to
use new technology;

(b) to adapt, test and demonstrate new technology in the country's different agro-ecological zones which
responds to local priorities and is economically beneficial to farmers;

(c) to regulate farming practices to ensure sustainability of natural resources and to protect the health
and welfare of the rural populations;

(d) to provide public, and some private, goods and services used by the agricultural sector (e.g. annual
stocks of rice foundation seed) on a cost recovery basis; and

(e) to license and regulate the provision of private goods and services (such as crop inputs, veterinary
services and water) so that consumer and farmer interests are safeguarded.

21. To achieve the PDO, the project was intended to build the necessary institutional capacity in MAFF,
in part by implementing pilot field program as a means:

(a) to gain experience in the planning, organization and management of agricultural development
programs;


                                                   - 51 -

(b) to adapt, test and demonstrate improved agricultural technology under field conditions; and, more
generally,

(e) to develop MAFF's understanding of, and responsiveness to, the needs of its client base.

2.3 Expected Project Outputs

21. The result of the activities mentioned in the above strategy was expected to be an improvement in the
quantity and quality of the technical, human and physical resources of MAFF needed to promote
sustainable agricultural development. To achieve this aggregated output, APIP was to carry out, at the
pace required to learn by doing:

(a) activities in each of the main agricultural sub-sectors comprising essential knowledge acquisition,
technology testing and adaptation, field development activities, priority rehabilitation investments; and

(b) a major effort in MAFF human resources development.

Indicators of these outputs were classified in the SAR in terms of human resources, physical outputs,
information for future development of the sector and policy development. To be easy compared the status
at the project completion we rewrite these indicators.

22. Human Resources: By the project's completion, a key output in all sub-sectors was to be
developed human resources. In MAFF, about 1,000 trained personnel at central and provincial levels
would have achieved pre-determined levels of technical and managerial competency. Many would have
acquired better communication and analytical skills and gained on-job experience of successful work plan
implementation and inter-departmental collaboration. Training courses would have been conducted for
staff of the Agronomy, Livestock and hydrology departments in gender awareness. In four selected
provinces, about 800 village vets would be trained and licensed; and about 20,000 farmers
trained/exposed to new technology: 16,000 rice farmers would have been trained in IPM; a minimum of
500 farmers trained in seed production and about 2,000 farmers would have participated in supervised
on-farm-field trials (200 trials per year for 4 years in Soil Fertility Management and Farming
Systems/Crop Diversification.

23. Physical Outputs: Expected physical outputs contributing to the institutional capacity objective
include newly-constructed or rehabilitated and equipped departmental and provincial offices, laboratories,
research station and seed processing buildings; it was expected that they would be functioning efficiently.

24. The seeds multiplication program would start to produce physical outputs within the investment
period of the project, including 700 tons/year of improved rice foundation seed produced for
multiplication and 15,000 tons/year of rice extension seed processed, labeled and market. Other
directly-productive outputs were to be two million doses per year of cattle vaccine, two million fish
fry/fingerlings per year, and about 136 small-scale water retention/drainage structures. In all
components, physical targets were set that take account of MAFF's weak initial implementation and
absorptive capacity, and the over-riding objective to build up that capacity through various means.

25. Information for Future Development of the Sector. By project completion, the project was
expected to have begun to generate important information outputs. These included: information systems
which would produce valuable data on Cambodia farming and inland fishing systems; a national


                                                    - 52 -

agricultural statistics system (DPSIC); an agronomic technology testing and demonstration system
(DOA); hydrology information system (MOWRAM); crop pest data base (DOA); a sectoral public
investment program data-base (DPSIC); and a personnel and job description data base (HRD). Some
information outputs would be the result of one-off studies and surveys such as smallholder rubber
research results, evaluation of small scale agricultural hydraulic schemes, the vaccine production
privatization study, training needs assessments, statistical survey, farming system studies and field trial
results, a feasibility study of a medium scale agricultural hydraulics schemes, and component monitoring
and evaluation reports. In some cases, information outputs would feed into other project outputs such as
field-tested technical recommendations. A critical systems output is expected to be an established
information flow involving two-way communications among different stakeholders in the agricultural
sector that will ensure the MAFF promotes technology that responds effectively to real needs.

26. Policy Development: In three components of the project, policy outputs would be produced: (a) a
National Seeds Strategy would be prepared to guide implementation of the seed production, multiplication
and distribution and establish appropriate policies for future management of the function, including cost
recovery and financial mechanisms necessary to permit the development of a commercial seed
multiplication industry; (b) a National Strategy for Animal Health and Production, that would clearly
define the respective roles of the public and private sectors in the light of experience gained under the
project and elsewhere, and provide the recommendations on the future of the vaccine Production
Laboratory, presently operated by the DAHP. The regulation of basic animal health provision would
have been formalized through the registration and licensing of village vets; and (c) in conjunction with
expected assistance to government by UNDP and ADB, a National Water Resource Strategy would be
prepared that would clarify present institutional responsibilities for water, including the present
separation of functions for rural water supply and irrigation planning, and make recommendations for
participation and cost recovery policies likely to promote sustainable development of water resources for
agricultural purposes. It was expected that this work would also result in a preliminary version of a
revised legal framework to address irrigation water usage/ water rights issues. It was agreed that each of
the above three national strategies would be prepared by the Government and sent to IDA for comments
by December 31, 1998.

2.4 Expected Outcomes

27. Two main outcomes considered to cover the whole activities of APIP and expected to have occurred
at completion were: (a) the building of substantial capacity in MAFF to plan, coordinate and implement
successful agricultural development programs for the benefit of, and with the participation of, the rural
populations concerned; and (b) substantial benefits for farmers in the areas of the pilot field programs in
terms of increased crop and livestock production.

3. ACHIEVEMENT OF OUTPUTS

3.1 HUMAN RESOURCES:

28. By project completion, a key output in all sub-sectors would be developed human resources. In
MAFF, about 1,000 trained personnel at central and provincial levels would have achieved
pre-determined levels of technical and managerial competency. Objectively judged, the staff capacity
have been improved through several training courses in both local and overseas and on-job training,
transferred by technical assistant and learned by doing. Training activities have been described in 3
ways, general training, technical training for staff and farmers' training. The completed activities
contributed to achieved human resources development outputs are highlighted as follows:


                                                    - 53 -

3.1.1 Improvement Managerial Competency

29. The managerial competency of the project staff within MAFF and MOWRAM has been
strengthened through general training courses coordinated by HRD component.

3.1.2 Strengthened Communication Skills

30. As mentioned in SAR, communication skills would be strengthened. Communication is considered
an important skill in any work. The APIP has built up such a skill from the management level to the
implementation levels. The initial start of building communication skill is the improvement of English
language. The HRD/TM component well organized English training for 687 central and 5 provincial
staff (120 women). A lot of staff closely worked with foreign technical assistant and carried out
day-to-day communication between component, PMU, other ministries, NGOs, and the World Bank.
Network development for organization and management of agricultural data in the field of planning and
statistics has established and well coordinated with statistics office of PDAFF so as to make timely
reporting.

3.1.3 Improved Analytical Skills:

31. The activities have been achieved by components.

32. Agronomy: The soil collection and analysis program was carried out to inventory soil chemical
properties to determine and/or confirm soil types and to compare the chemical properties of soils in
different locations. Inventory activities to be undertaken in conjunction with agronomic and infrastructure
databases are developed for each field sites. The soil laboratory of agronomy has provided timely soil,
fertilizer and plant analysis advice and expert guidance to improve fertilizer use efficiency, monitor
fertilizer quality, and minimize environment risks through land degradation, erosion, acidity, and salinity.

33. Animal Health: The up-graded provincial offices, diagnostic laboratory (NAHPIC) at DAHP and
provincial laboratories were completed and operational. NAHPIC has been linked to field laboratories in
the four target provinces. The series of training courses on laboratory techniques were carried out for
field laboratory staff who displayed a considerable analytical capability. The NAHPIC staff have been
evaluated and organized into the technical teamwork.

34. Hydrology: In the SAR mentioned about a training course for soils laboratory technicians. When
the current capabilities of the soils laboratory staff were reviewed it was found that the soil laboratory
operates competently and that there was no pressing need for further training.

35. Planning and Statistics: Six staff members of statistics received training organized by the TA. They
became skilled in processing and analyzing sample survey results. Six staff of statistics are able to train
provincial staff on various aspect related to sample design, collection and analyses.

36. Gender awareness: The SAR mentioned that training courses would have been conducted for staff
of the agronomy, livestock, and hydrology. This effort is designed to increase the extent to which MAFF
policies, program and improved agricultural technologies are relevant and responsive to the priorities and
needs of its rural clients, both men and women. The process of gender awareness received major
attention, was mainstreamed into all components and was satisfactorily achieved after the MTR.



                                                     - 54 -

3.1.5 Transfer of New Technology

37. Animal Health: In SAR stated that, In four selected provinces about 800 village vets would be
trained and licensed. The activities has been satisfactorily achieved as 2,800 VAHW were trained and
licensed as of June 2005 in 4 provinces. The component is also working in close cooperation with other
NGOs and local groups in harmonization and integration of national VAHW program.

38. Agronomy: The SAR expected that about 20,000 farmers would be trained/exposed to new
technology and that 16,000 farmers would have been trained in IPM. The activity has been satisfactorily
achieved. A minimum of 500 farmer were trained in seed production. About 2,000 farmers were
expected to participate in supervised on-farm-field trials (200 trials per year for 4 years) in Soil Fertility
Management and Farming Systems/Crop Diversification; in practice, the soil fertility management and
conservation sub-component completed training of 3,008 farmers (of whom 1,429 are women) through
farmer field school on integrated soil nutrient management, and on-farm demonstrations.

39. Agricultural Hydraulics: Agricultural Hydraulics component has trained farmers in 47 farmer
user communities on how to use, maintain the constructed small scale irrigation effectively .

40. Fisheries Component: Fisheries component has trained farmers in 2 community fisheries on how to
manage the fisheries resources in their communities. Farmers have been also trained on breeding of giant
catfish and on managing brood stock under freshwater fish research sub-component with total 27 farmers
(1 woman).

3.2 PHYSICAL OUTPUTS

3.2.1 Office Building and Renovation

41. In the SAR, expected physical outputs contributing to the institutional capacity objective included
newly-constructed or rehabilitated and equipped departmental and provincial offices, laboratories,
research station and seed processing buildings. The project successfully implemented the renovations and
new constructions of departmental and provincial offices, laboratories, research stations, and seed
processing buildings.

3.2.2 Assets

42. The APIP also provided a wide range of equipment. Office equipment, furniture, audio-visual
equipment, communication equipment, and laboratory equipment and supplies, have been procured and
delivered to the components of APIP according to the requirement.
Seed Production Program

43. The project document planned that the three rehabilitated seed farms would be limited to the
multiplication of breeders' seed obtained from the research into foundation seed to be sold to seed grower
for production of commercial seed. The seeds multiplication program would start to produce physical
outputs within the investment period of the project, including 700 tons/year of improved rice foundation
seed produced for multiplication and 15,000 tons/year of rice extension seed processed, labeled and
market. The total area needed for that production would be of about 250 ha.

44. The seed production sub-component paid attention to these milestones and planned in work plan
2000 to carry out seed production of total area 236 ha. However, due to serious problems of land


                                                   - 55 -

invasion at Kap Srau farm, an alternative site at Prey Phdau research station has been used for rice seed
production. The Prey Phdau site is considerably smaller than Kap Srau. In Chamkar Leu, the area was
also reduced. The total area was reduced to only 91 ha. In addition, the seed production equipment
(tractors and other equipment) arrived only in 2004, and seed processing equipment was completely
installed only in October 2005. Due to the above constraint, the quantity of seed produced each year did
not meet the objective.

3.2.4 Vaccine Production

45. In the SAR, It was expected that two million doses per year of cattle vaccine would be produced. As
a result of several weakness found by the privatization specialist (such as no capital assets, no accounts
and only few records, cramped working space, no storage, no sales, low staff capacity) the realistic
production cost of vaccine was close to or higher than the imported price; it was therefore recommended
to close and sell the facility to the private sector. As a result, the project cancelled these activities, instead
purchasing vaccine from outside for control of disease outbreaks.

3.2.5 Fish Seed Production

46. As defined in the SAR, the sub-component was intended to produce two million of fingerling per
year. Due to change of targeted research station, Chrang Chamres due to lack of water and delay in
finding new feasible location, the study on new research station was urgently needed and the man months
of the breeding specialist were readjusted to reflect the urgent needs. Three technical advisers finally
came to work for the sub-component; the policy adviser, the indigenous fish breeding specialist, and the
fisheries hatchery engineer, who have completed their tasks.

47. The expected output of two million fingerling per year has not been paid much attention to, instead
of focusing on research activities. However the component produced around 2,000,000 fish fry and
around 500,000 fingerlings in each year from 2002 to 2004.

3.2.6 Small Scale Irrigation

48. According to SAR, the project was expected to construct 50 small-scale irrigation schemes with
about 136 small-scale water retention/drainage structures. The MTR mission decided to reduce the
number of schemes from 50 to 20. However, the Bank agreed with the government to extent APIP for
two years and the component has made all efforts to meet the target stated in SAR. Finally, the
sub-component completely constructed 47 small-scale irrigation schemes, 25 schemes in Kompong Thom
and 22 schemes in Kratie provinces, which were selected, designed and implemented with the
participation of the project beneficiaries and subsequently managed by them.

3.3 INFORMATION FOR THE FUTURE DEVELOPMENT OF THE SECTOR

49. It was expected that by completion the project would have begun to generate important information
outputs. These include information systems which would produce valuable data on Cambodia farming
and inland fishing systems.

3.3.1 Data on Cambodia Farming and Inland Fishing System

50. Data on Farming Systems: Due to problems in securing technical assistance from CIRAD as
initially envisioned, this sub-component was not active during the first half of the project. In 2001, the


                                                      - 56 -

IDA was able to obtain financing from a Norwegian Trust Fund and these resources were available to
APIP technical assistance for four months/year for three years from 2002-2004 to facilitate the launching
of the activities in the Farming Systems and Agricultural Economic sub-component and to support
implementation. Activities contributed to achieved the expected output was collection and compilation of
data on agro-ecological characterization of the area of the small holder rubber development project by
collection of samples from taken in Chup Experiment Station, from Svay Rieng, Prey Veng, Kampong
Thom and Kampong Cham Provinces (all soil samples sent to soil laboratory for analysis). The
sub-component collaborated with Mr. Stephan Boulakia on the establishment of a data-base of rice-based
farming systems, and with the " Project Heveaculture Familiale" (PHF) which focus on crop
diversification. The sub-component also established participatory on-farm trials of potential crops to
assess the characteristics of each variety of pigeon pea and sorghum according to the farmers' criteria.
There was also an evaluation of different alternatives for cultivation after rice harvesting, soybeans and
mung beans were sown without soil tillage into rice residues. PRA Method were used to evaluate 36
collaborating farmers for no-tillage trials and demonstrations in six provinces.

51. Data on in land fishing: No substantial implementation progress was achieved under this activity.
Due to divergence of understanding in demarcation of fish-sanctuaries between stakeholders, progress
was limited on inland fishing data. However, the sub-component of fisheries management and
conservation reviewed all existing data/information from past and on-going projects/activities that have
been carried in Tonle Sap in relation to fisheries management and conservation, particularly fish
sanctuaries. In response to the requirement, the sub-component reviewed the available data/information
in contact with relevant government and NGO such as Ministry of Environment, FAO, Wetland
International, WWF, WCS, and JICA for collecting data/information related to freshwater fisheries
research and management in the Tonle Sap Lake.

3.3.2 A national agricultural statistics system (DPSIC)

52. Data collection systems for crop and livestock statistics (mainly crop area and yield; livestock
numbers and production) were in place, regular flow of data established, data entry, processing, and
reporting has been strengthened. Central, provincial officers and enumerators were trained in both
on-the-job and formal sessions. The database is available to users through a well-coordinated data
dissemination program. The organizational structure for agricultural data collection at district level has
been signed by the Minister.

3.3.3 An agronomic technology testing and demonstration system.

53. The outputs have been achieved in the establishment of trials and demonstrations with clear
protocols. The results of the trials were recorded and follow-up trials have been conducted. The
objectives of these trials was to demonstrate yield and cost benefits from the combined application of
NKP and cow manure to rain-fed, lowland rice grown in farmer's fields in 12 provinces. The results
describe an opportunity to improve on-farm fertilizer management strategies by supplementing the use of
inorganic fertilizers with locally-available CM. That we could only infer yield increases with applied
NPK fertilizer suggests a need to re-evaluate aspects of experimental design related to site selection (e.g.
residual soil fertility), trial monitoring (e.g. plot size, fertilizer incorporation, seed bed preparation,
harvest area, yield determination) in order to better manage experimental error. This study was taken
onto farmer fields in other rice-growing districts and provinces and linked to other soil fertility
management programs targeting food security and rural livelihoods in Cambodia, especially on-going
DAALI compost making activities.




                                                       - 57 -

54. Compost making on-farm using pits, heaps or bins is one way to assist farming families to overcome
this problem. Of these options, the use of compost pits with walls to increase the volume of compost
produced and a roof to protect composting materials from direct sunlight and heavy rainfall was
preferred. Such compost 'houses' are well accepted by farmers, are low cost, and have low maintenance
requirements. It is expected compost will be available for use in on-farm activities after 3-4 months. For
the project life, soil fertility management and conservation under agronomy component established 2400
compost demonstration plots. Compost-making activities are very successful and adapted to farmers.
Additional activities to be addressed are: (a) a need for information from farmers on production and use
of compost; (b) the money value farmers attach to on-farm collection of organic residues and production
of compost; and (c) the use of compost-making farmer cooperators in proposed on-farm fertilizer by
manure trial activities.

55. Nine on-farm land management trials were established by soil fertility management and conservation
sub-component. This activity to demonstrate farmers address on-site erosion issues by recommending:
(a) all crop residues should be used as mulch materials to protect the soil surface; (b) inter-rows should
be cropped during the wet season and dry season wherever possible; (c) contour plantings of crops able to
control erosion by impeding the flow and slowing the velocity of run-off water should be undertaken; (d)
leguminous trees or Vetiver grass could be considered in areas of high erosion risk, and cash or fodder
crops in areas of lower erosion risk; and (e) FFS on land management should be considered to promote
sustainable land use.

3.3.4 Hydrology information system (MOWRAM)

55. Most of intended outputs have been achieved including: (a) the Hydrology Information System
sub-component has achieved its main objective as establishment of hydrological data collection system by
installing workstation along with key equipment and local area network; (b) topographic map at 1:50,000
and 1:100, 000 scale covering the whole area of Cambodia were scanned into the system; and (c)
databases of groundwater, irrigation, population, flooding, and GIS overlays were consolidated. In
addition, data collection network were established as five automatic water level recorders were installed
at, Kampot, Kampong Som, Koh Kong, Prey Veng and Pursat. In these provinces, 15 automatic rain
gauges were installed (three per province). Manual gauges were installed in other locations. Data
collected from existing stations and hydrological database was up-dated regularly.

3.3.5 Crop pest data base (DOA)

56. The pests collected from the fields were identified scientifically and the specimens kept in the insect
boxes. The collection from pest surveillance and pest identification to the pest database was entered into
the computerized Plant Protection National Database that is of value to the ASEAN frame-work.
Through the result of pest surveillance the endemic and quarantine pest list on rice, orange, mango,
potato, orchid, banana and durian has been developed to be submitted to ASEAN for pest list
harmonization among ASEAN countries.

3.3.6 A sectoral public investment program data base (DPSIC)

57. No substantial progress has been made in regard to the establishment of a data-base on sectoral
public investment program. Because of the delay of mobilizing technical assistant for two years, the
sub-component concentrated on strengthening staff capacity in the field of planning through training and
workshops which is a principle of human resource development and parallel with Cambodian government
policy.


                                                   - 58 -

3.3.7 A Personnel and Job Description Data Base (HRD)

58 The system was designed and installed in HRD/TM component. There is a large demand for
up-dated information on APIP personnel as HRMIS plays an important role for MAFF, Department of
Personnel and HRD, and for line departments and provinces themselves to manage and develop their
human resources. Furthermore, it is also useful for identifying and selecting the appropriate trainees and
training courses for future training programs.

3.3.8 Results of Studies and Surveys

59. These outputs have realized with regarding to:

(a) the report on the assessment of the performance of smallholder rubber development pilot project in
Cambodia was finalized in January 2002. The assessment of small-holder rubber research has not yet
done. However, information regarding growth rate, mortality rate and climatic parameters has been
recorded regularly according to experiment procedure.

(b) evaluation of small-scale agricultural hydraulics schemes: before the construction of each scheme
clear information is very needed such as socio-economic study, topographic survey and detail design and
drawing. These activities completely implemented by small-scale agricultural hydraulics component for
50 small-scale irrigation schemes. The study impact of ten small-scale irrigation schemes was completed
in December 2005.

(c) The feasibility study of the Prek Tatam medium-scale agricultural hydraulics scheme was conducted
by three advisors. The first reports on the social and economic, environmental and engineering
assessments were produced. The economic assessment report was revised in June 2003.

(d) Vaccine production privatization study was finalized in May 2000 with extensive consultations with
the main stakeholders.

(e) The training needs assessment has been carried out.

(f) Agricultural statistics system: the organizational structure for agricultural data collection at district
level has been signed by the Minister. Data collection systems for crop and livestock statistics (mainly
crop area and yield; livestock number and production) were in place, regular flows of data established,
data entry, processing, and reporting has been strengthened. Central, provincial officers and enumerators
were trained in both on the job and formal sessions. Database is available to users through a
well-coordinated data dissemination program. Statistical surveys have been carried out on crop and
livestock sample survey and crop yield survey in 14 provinces. The surveys have been done every year
started from November and completed in January next year. The final report of survey results has been
issued in March of the following year.

(g) The Farming System Study was started in early 2002. The delay of this activity due to the
uncertainty of technical assistant, which is supposed to be granted by CIRAD, finally no grant TA is
available for the sub-component.

(h) Some 63 small-holder rubber trials were established. These trials include the trails cooperated with
AFD and the abandoned trials which are destroyed by fire and animals. The total remaining trials funded


                                                   - 59 -

by APIP is 48 trials.

(i) Component monitoring report has been produced on monthly, 6 monthly, and annually, the individual
completion report has also produced by each component.

3.3.9 Information Flow

60. Information flows involving two-way communications among different stakeholders in the
agricultural sector will ensure the MAFF promotes technology that responds effectively to real needs.

3.4 POLICY DEVELOPMENTS

60. In the SAR, three components of the project would produce the following policy outputs: a National
Seed Strategy, a National Strategy for Animal Health and Production, and a National Water Resource
Strategy. The project realized the expected outputs, as follows:

(a) a Seed Strategy for DAALI was completed and endorsed by MAFF (12th March, 2001) and sent to
the Bank and translated into the Khmer language.

(b) an Action Plan for implementation of seed strategy was prepared and sent to the Bank.

(c) the first draft of a Strategic Plan for Animal Health and Production was completed and a Consultation
Workshop was held in December 2000. The recommendations were made by MTR mission to integrate
policy development which should address livestock market development and pricing policy, domestic and
international markets, linkages between livestock producers and the private sector, market information,
and options for local, value-added processing. These comments were elaborated in a revised version of
the Strategic Plan.

(d) a water resource strategy for MOWRAM was completed and sent to the Bank in March 2001.
Endorsement of the strategy from the Minister of MOWRAM was declared on 28 January 2002. An
Action Plan for the implementation of the water resource strategy was completed and sent to the Bank in
February 2002. The strategy was translated into Khmer language.

(e) an Agricultural Education and Training strategy was completed, a workshop was held by AET
component, and it was submitted to the Bank in August 2001.

(f) an HRD Strategy was put on consultation in the workshop held on 22 October 2002.

(g) a Master Plan of Fisheries and AET has been drafted and is under review and modification. The
Master Plan of AET was consulted with the stakeholders in the workshop held in December 2003. The
proposed draft seed law was prepared under the Agronomy component.

(h) a Draft Water Law for MOWRAM was submitted to the Council of Ministers in March 2001 and
discussed on May 23, 2001.

(i) a revision of the fisheries law has been dynamically consulted with fisheries experts, local fishers,
local authorities and local communities.

(j) a sub-decree on the establishment and management of village animal health workers was endorsed by


                                                   - 60 -

the Government of Cambodia on 02 March 2001.

(k) three sub-decrees on Farmer Water User's Communities, Licensing, and Watershed Management
were submitted to the Council of Ministers.

(l) two sub-decrees on Community Fisheries and Hiring of Inland and Marine Fisheries Domains were
prepared.

(m) Three MAFF declarations on the Selection of Trainers for training village animal health workers
(VAHWs) were issued in July 2001, Guidelines and Procedures for the selection of VAHW's was issued
in July 2001, and the Licensing Recognition of VAHW's was issued in August 2001.

(n) the organizational structure of agricultural statistics was prepared and the Minister signed it on 21
July 2003.

(o) the Village Animal Health System (Management, Licensing, and Regulation Sustainability) was
submitted to the Bank and IFAD;

(p) the Guideline for the Registration and Management of Village Animal Health Workers in the National
Village Animal Health System was produced and submitted to the PMU in November 2000 and
subsequently the Bank.

(q) the APIP Financial Guidelines and Procedures were up-dated and sent to the Bank for comment in
July 2002, comments were received from the Bank , and the document was re-elaborated and re-sent to
the Bank in August 2002.

(r) The APIP procurement manual was drafted and sent to the Bank in June 2003. The Bank commented
on it in July 2003 and it was resent in February 2004.

(s) The HRD Guideline and procedure was completed and submitted to Bank in November 2000.

4. OUTCOMES

61. Two main outcomes were considered to cover the whole activities of APIP and were expected to have
occurred at the completion of the project; these were:

(a) The building of substantial capacity in MAFF to plan, coordinate and implement successful
agricultural development programs for the benefit of, and with the participation of, the rural populations
concerned; and

(b) Substantial benefits for farmers in the areas of the pilot field programs in terms of increased crop and
live stock production.

4.1 BUILDING SUBSTANTIAL CAPACITY IN MAFF

62. Institutional capacity strengthening which is the immediate objective of the project has been
satisfactorily met. The basic structure, administration, finance, procurement monitoring and evaluation,
and gender which are critical elements for project operation has been established and strengthened. The
organizational structure had clearly-defined functions. Staff performance was satisfactory, recognized in


                                                   - 61 -

terms of increasing the responsibility of individual technicians to plan, coordinate and implement the
development project. The capacity of staff has been improved and up-graded by several approaches. For
example, (a) On-the-job training which is effective method by absorbing the practical knowledge from
technical advisors and experienced people; and (b) formal local and overseas courses. As the results, the
performance of the staff has been increased so as to allow them to fulfill their duties properly after the
departure of technical assistance.

Construction

63. Before the project started, some components, DAALI, DAHP, MOWRAM, DOF, DPSIC/HRD and
5 provincial offices were in bad condition. At the end of project, a lot of buildings were renovated and
newly-constructed; those buildings benefited the staff as well as MAFF institution as a whole.

4.2 SUBSTANTIAL BENEFITS FOR FARMERS

64. The transferring agricultural technologies program, conducting field trials, field demonstrations, field
days, series of technical training and agricultural extension packages done by the project are very
important for farmers. The approach made farmers perceive new technologies and their advantages and
gradually changed their behavior terms of use of qualified seed and applied compost in their fields. More
importantly, pesticide and chemical application has been gradually reduced resulting from farmers'
perceived hazards of pesticide misuse and the decrease in soil nutrients resulting from inappropriate
chemical fertilizer application.

65. Most women farmers clearly recognized their right and responsibilities of doing something which
related to agriculture through participating in the training in Gender Awareness and Women's Capacity
Building. Additionally, their voices has been taken into consideration by local authorities and
communities because the local authorities and community and women have joined the training and
perceive right by themselves.

66. The technologies that the project has introduced were simple and farmer-oriented since the project
plans were basically prepared on the needs of farmers. The technologies are transferred from farmers by
establishing a farmer group with actively joined and supported from Provincial Department of
Agriculture (PDA), local authority and Provincial Department concerned. Network capacity-building
activities have seen a paradigm shift in willingness to undertake participatory activities involving
extension workers, farmers and farming communities to determine the sustainability of different land
management strategies. Extension workers and farmer participation has helped increase their ownership
in management to further raise awareness of SLM amongst stakeholders.

67. The high quality of seed was introduced to farmers through this program. It is the one activity of the
project that make the farmers started to thinking on the improving their productivity within the interesting
new varieties of rice, soybean, mung bean, corn and vegetable. Before the project started, almost all
farmers in the country saved seed for the next cultivation. Right now, some farmers changed their ideas
and bought the seed from this program. From this program, the seed farm and station they has enough
idea to access their activities on the seed production and supply by themselves and they will organize and
run on the way self subsistence and will manage by themselves as autonomous institution or private
institution in the future.

68. Training course on safe use of pesticide and other plant protection aspect: farmers adopted pest
control recommendations and alternative pest control measures that spend less budget and are safe to


                                                    - 62 -

human and environment. The model farmers get benefits from the training course and share their
knowledge with neighboring farmers. The agricultural products they produce are free of or have very
limited content of pesticide. The success of IPM can be measured not only by the impact on the farmers'
agricultural production but also on many other aspects. Benefits can be direct and indirect and can be
evaluated not only in terms of economic returns but also in terms of social and environmental indicators.

69. The impact assessment of IPM were carried out at two levels, at field level (in 2003) and at policy
and institutional level (in 2004), by external consultants. It is evident that the IPM program was able to
reduce the use of pesticides. This reduction leads to more cost-effective production, reduced water
contamination, reduced frequency of farmer poisoning and public health risks, improved bio-diversity,
and improved marketability of agricultural products, and all of these lead to poverty reduction. The
results of the IPM impact assessment at policy and institutional level concluded that the IPM program in
Cambodia is strongly supported by the Government at all levels as a strategy for poverty to

5. PROJECT BUDGET

5.1 SAR AND MTR BUDGET

70. Project cost estimates are based on June 1996 prices. Investment costs were assigned to the
following expenditure categories: civil works, vehicles, equipment, materials (for laboratory
experimentation, field trials and demonstrations), international specialist services (technical assistance),
studies, overseas and domestic trainings. Recurrent costs were assigned to categories of staff training and
field allowances, and incremental operating expenses.

71. The MTR recognized that the value of SDR, in which the ITF Credit and IFAD Loan were
denominated, had fallen since the SAR from US$1.44 to US$ 1.25. After taking into account actual
disbursements and assuming the current SDR exchange for future disbursements, the total US$
equivalent of the ITF Credit had fallen from US$27.0 million to US$23.7 million, and that of the IFAD
Loan from US$4.7 million to US$4.2 million. This represented an estimated reduction in available
external funds of US$3.8 million. Nevertheless, funds available were estimated to be sufficient to finance
implementation of the adjusted project and no reallocation between disbursement categories was
considered necessary at the time. The revised base costs were consistent with the reduced dollar
equivalent of the ITF Credit and IFAD Loan funds but, for other reasons, there were significant
reallocations between categories, particularly for Overseas Training. The base costs are disaggregated by
ITF Credit and IFAD Loan in Tables 3 and 4 and by component. Disbursement was behind schedule,
and it was decided to reallocate fund between categories and cancel SDR3.5 million (US$5.2 million) of
surplus fund from the ITF credit and extend the project implementation period until December 2005.
There was a change in the purpose and direction of the PAS component after it became the responsibility
of DPSIC. A significant addition to the project work program and budget was made to strengthen gender
awareness. The total budget of US$220,000 was allocated by component in varying amounts.

Table 2 Revised base costs in total APIP budget after MTR in June 2001
 Category of Base Costs                 Total                        Total                  Difference          Percen
                                     SAR Budget                 MTR Budget                  MTR-SAR              chan
                                      Years 1-5                   Years 1-5
 Column                                   1                            2                     3 (= 2-1)           4 (= 3
 Investment Costs
 Civil works                           4,287,000                   4,394,660                  107,660
 Vehicles                              2,917,000                   2,324,998                 -592,002




                                                   - 63 -

Equipment                               4,642,529                    2,959,205                     -1,683,324
Materials                               1,431,000                    799,517                        -631,483
Consulting services and studies         8,393,231                    8,371,697                       -21,534
Overseas training                        801,000                     1,542,474                       741,474
Local training                          2,399,500                    2,474,154                       74,654
TOTAL Investment Costs                  24,871,260                  22,866,705                     -2,004,555
Recurrent Costs
Training and field allowances           3,570,000                    3,104,410                      -465,590
Operating costs                         3,783,000                    3,642,667                      -140,333
TOTAL Recurrent Costs                   7,353,000                    6,747,077                      -605,923
GRAND TOTAL Base Costs                  32,224,260                  29,613,782                     -2,610,478
Contingencies                           2,883,000                    1,648,000                     -1,235,000
GRAND TOTAL APIP                        35,107,260                  31,261,782                     -3,845,478



5.2 ACTUAL EXPENSES

72. About US$24,865,808 of budgeted Investment Costs were used. These costs represent about 109%
compared with the MTR budget. However, only about US$2,123,349 of budgeted Recurrent Costs have
been spent which is only about 31% of the MTR budget. These parameters of financial performance are
displayed in Table 4 and compared with those derived from the present position of the ITF and IFAD
budgets. The cumulative expenditure as of 31 December 2005 is US$26,989,156.

Table 3 Comparison of Budget with SAR and MTR
                              Total                    Total                        Cumulative                    Comparison
Category of Base              SAR Budget               MTR Budget                   (at                           with SAR,
 Costs                        Whole Year               Whole Year                   December                      %
                                                                                    31 2005)
Investment Costs
Civil works                     4,287,000                 4,394,660                   6,858,345                       160
Vehicles                        2,917,000                 2,324,998                   1,697,098                        58
Equipment                       4,642,529                 2,959,205                   2,797,524                        60
Materials                       1,431,000                  799,517                    1,184,763                        83
Consulting services             8,393,231                 8,371,697                   6,184,697                        74
and studies
Overseas training                801,000                  1,542,474                    176,986                         22
Local training                  2,399,500                 2,474,154                   5,966,396                       249
TOTAL Investment               24,871,260                 22,866,705                 24,865,808                       100
Costs
Recurrent Costs
Training and field              3,570,000                 3,104,410                                                    0
allowances
Operating costs                 3,783,000                 3,642,667                   2,123,349                        56
TOTAL Recurrent                 7,353,000                 6,747,077                   2,123,349                        29
Costs
GRAND TOTAL Base               32,224,260                 29,613,782                                                   0
Costs
Contingencies                   2,883,000                 1,648,000                                                    0
GRAND TOTAL                    35,107,260                 31,261,782                 26,989,157                        77
APIP


Note: CW = Civil Work, Veh. = Vehicle, ALM = Agricultural Laboratory Materials, TA = Technical Assistant, OT =




                                                     - 64 -

Overseas training, DT&TraA. = Domestic training and Training Allowance, OC = Operation Cost.


6. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE

73. In general, the experiences received from the project regarding long bureaucratic procedures
(technical components, PMU, MAFF, MEF and World Bank) and process are considered as main issue of
low disbursement from both loan and counterpart fund and affected the implementation of project. The
delay of releasing counterpart funds was a critical issue that affected the implementation of the project.
This continued to be constraint through out the project implementation. Counter-part funds were often
not paid at the same time as the loan funds. Procurement faced difficulty on the evaluation of bid
documents produced by companies such as providing insufficient documents. Some technical assistance
did not adapt to the local culture and created problems that had to be resolved. Lack of communication
with service providers was a major problem affecting the overseas training which were proposed in the
work plan. The following are the experiences gained in each component.

74. Agronomy: Land titles are very important for the rehabilitation of the seed farms and station, and
the lack of land title made the agronomy component delay several activities, with regard to the
construction of main building, laboratory complex and the rehabilitation of seed farms and stations.
Through this project, agronomy component got land title of four stations/state farms. The slow
replenishment of revolving fund caused delays. TA is needed at the same time with laboratory equipment
available, unfortunately when equipment arrived the TAs had gone. The development of detailed training
proposals and the terms of reference of farming systems and agriculture economics sub-component are
very important with TA.

75. Animal Health: The scope of the AHP Component was wide and arguably laid the ambitious
foundation for the veterinary service development, given inappropriate time-frame and structural
constraints in place. It extends from staff capacity, infrastructure, laboratory, offices, communication,
information and transport development to widely-based community training programs and privatization of
veterinary services. The provision of improvement of technical and supply services, framing legislation,
institutional building, and the need to codify and publish manuals for the regulation of the animal
production and veterinary practices of the nation, is envisaged as a response to the evolving needs for
fundamental development of the sector.

76. Given the constraints, as identified from time to time in many reports, concerning executing the
action plan, the component management faced the range of issues from staff capacity, communication and
coordination among the local staff and experts, training allowance, financial system, unnecessary
administrative burden and bureaucratic, to the mobilization of resources. These issues, indeed, should be
handled in a separate project phase to smooth project implementation. Although the implementation of
the AHP Component was rated as `satisfactory' to `highly satisfactory', the progress was not at the same
level in all aspects planned, and it is not possible to document an impact of the project on its ultimate
target group, especially in the situation where the livestock market, like pig and cattle, has recently
emerged.

77. Planning and Statistics: The experience of the project indicates the major factors that affected the
achievement of activities including factors outside the control of the component: (a) intervention from
Bank and MEF; (b) coordination and facilitation of organization, MAFF, APIP-PMU, French and
CIRAD experts; (c) cooperation from line ministries concerned; and (d) budget constraints

78. Factors within the control of the component were: (a) active participation of the implementation of



                                                       - 65 -

the work plan among the task members; (b) materials are not sufficient to carry out the work plan; and (c)
human resource of task group are limited.

79. All of the sub-component's activities were very relevant to DPSIC. Most of the activities were
included in the SAR because DPSIC identified them at the first place. In fact, an activity proposed in the
Work Plan of the sub-component is never treated like a "project" activity. DPSIC absorbs it in the
system like a litmus paper. This is probably the most important factor that aided the successful
implementation of the sub-component's activities. The project was able to build the capacity of the
Statistics Office, especially as regards enhancement of technical expertise at the centre, and organization
and management of data collection in the field. Attendance of staff has also improved a lot since the
inception of the project, thanks to the incentives provided by the project.

80. Working conditions at the center and in the field were good because of the existing institutional
linkage between DPSIC and PDAFF. Given DPSIC's excellent working relationship and regular contacts
with the Planning and Statistics Office of individual PDAFFs, the Statistics Office (of DPSIC) was able
to identify competent field-level staff for agricultural data collection.

81. The main constraints of the Statistics Office were the lack of the resources, facilities, supervisory
provisions, and trained staff. The Statistics Office needs a well-qualified statistician to increase the
absorptive capacity of its staff. As is common with new projects, substantial time and effort was devoted
by DPSIC to lay the foundations for the implementation of the project-induced activities.

82. SRRC: The achievement of the objectives or activities resulted from the assistance of the PMU as
well as the MAFF, some non-achievement such as socio-economic studies came from outside of the
component. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the Directorate General of Rubber Plantation as
well as the Operating Group (OG) of the IRCC staff has strongly committed to operate the project with
satisfactory.

83. HRD: The degree of success of the implementation of the activities approved in the component
work plan depended on the inside and outside participations. To organize the training courses for
provinces that approved in the component work plan, such as English or computer, the HRD component
work closely with PMU and the Bank to process the activities, coordinate with PAS to select the
participants to participate this training, and closely communicate with training providers.

84. AET The strategy document proposed a plan to develop the AET System at national and
school/university levels. However, the fact that the strategic plan was approved does not mean that
concerned key-players would automatically implement it. To guarantee implementation, it was necessary
to promote the strategy to heads of schools/university, concerned donors and government. Regular
meetings were organized in each school/university, with donors and with concerned departments of
MAFF, Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport, and Ministry of Economics and Finance. In particular,
it was necessary to estimate with these key-players the cost of supporting the strategic plan and to
negotiate its funding with MEF, MAFF, and donors. However, these tasks were new and took place
within a new phase (implementation of the strategy and master plan).

7. BANK PERFORMANCE

85. Bank performance was very helpful in terms of assisting project appraisal, preparation of staff
appraisal report and pushing the project start-up. In addition, the condition of the Bank on spending
money after 90 days of project effectiveness is very important to get the project to start implementation.


                                                     - 66 -

Moreover, during the implementation the Bank has scheduled to review the project implementation every
three months for short mission and six months for full mission. During the review mission, the Bank
provided recommendations, assisted resolving the problems, and accelerated the project implementation
by preparing agreed Action Plans. The Bank provided recommendation by e-mail on procurement,
especially international competitive bidding and national competitive bidding over the estimated cost, and
also finance, fund disbursement, monitoring work plan, monitoring system.

86. However, the Bank should take into account the delays of replies by e-mail for some activities (such
as no-objection or recommendation on strategy document, on TOR, or some procurement items). In
addition, the Bank should be more flexible for some procurement procedures, especially for training.

87. Animal Health: In general, the technical reviews were very helpful to guide the project
implementation and allow for timely adjustment to achieve the project objectives. The nature of such a
multi-functional development project has greatly related with the concerned governmental institutions,
which rely on the function of the PMU of the project with policy support and guidance of the PSC. The
related management function of the Bank has been very helpful for the component's technical inputs but
less effective in helping a smooth project implementation with the absence of PSC's function.

88. Planning and Statistics: In general, the Bank has been seen as good performance. However, some
negative points appeared during the carrying out. The good performance of Bank is that improvement of
the planning and budgeting system of APIP. Those include: (a) the mechanization and procedure of APIP
system in planning and budgeting process during the programming; (b) annual planning and budgeting
formulation (work plan design ); (c) the process of review, comment and approve system in an activity
implementation and budget expenses; and (d) the project monitoring and evaluation system.

89. Some negative points during the carrying out were: (a) the hierarchy of two channels (Bank and
MEF) in reviewing and approving the work plan, it seemed to be late sometimes and not to respond to the
needs (not accord between Bank and MEF); (b) the mechanization and procedure of APIP (PMU) system
was sometimes complicated and most procedures led to a waste the time; (c) some activities need to ask
for confirmation or no objection from the Bank although those activities were already approve in Work
Plan; and (d) the Bank sometime responds and sometimes does not respond at all.

90. SRRC: During the commencement of the project, the Bank performance and financial procedures
were not smoothly undertaken. The disbursement by the Bank was slow.

91. HRD: The Bank's performance was appropriate in the process of the implementation of the whole
project. But the Bank should take into account some issues: (a) the approval of processing the documents
that some times were not replied to on time; and (b) the evaluation of the Bank review mission team that
provide only the progress of the component but not provide the input of the action. Bank staff did not
work closely with component's staff. If they work closely they have enough to share experience to each
other.

92. AET: Bank performance during the implementation of the project was appropriate. However, the
Bank may need to take into consideration some issues related to the approval of activities and processing
the documents, especially documents that need Bank approval. The evaluation of the review team should
provide not only the progress of the component but also input for action. The Bank staff should work
closely with the government's staff as a counterpart and share experiences with the national project team.

8. COMPONENT PERFORMANCE


                                                  - 67 -

93. During more than a seven-year period of the implementation, the PMU worked very hard to
coordinate the implementation of a big project and confronted several issues. Firstly, at initial start-up,
many staff members were not familiar with the difficult project, procurement, financial and other
implementation procedures which were written in English. However, through the best effort in absorbing
advice, most of the staff in each section of PMU, Administration, Finance, Procurement, Monitoring and
Evaluation, and Gender adapted with all procedures as evidence, they have strong capacity and
confidence to implement the project.

94. Secondly, the PMU has trained components on the implementation of procurement finance procedure
and other relevant activities. The project planning, cause and effect, problem and beneficiary analysis and
project monitoring were trained by PMU's M&E to all M&E staff at the components. The PMU
coordinated day-to-day implementation of all components in terms of procurement and financial
disbursement, and provided information to all components, MAFF, and MEF through six-monthly
progress report and annual reports.

95. Although substantial efforts have been made in the implementation of the project, some activities
have been missed such as holding of steering committee meeting this due to the steering committee
members were often reshuffled. In addition, the process of approval has been delayed in some activities
due to the fact that some proposals were not clear and need clarification.

96. Animal Health: The project implementation was rather slow when it started. The project team has
been alert and responsive to the recommendation of the project reviews. The project resulted in a number
of important outputs, such as the development of the National Strategic Plan for Animal Health and
Production together with the Action Plan for Animal Health and Production, Sub-decree No. 26 on
establishment and management of VAHW, and revised No. 16 on sanitary inspection of animal and
animal product, and a number of report papers can be used for future formulation of a basis for new
legislation, the incorporation of gender sensitivity into the project and, in general, a careful attempt to
develop and improve the administrative management of the project.

97. The weakness in the AHP component has been critically ascribed to the limited and timely funding
access and changes in personnel, yet the macro operational system may be the main constraint to be
improved. Household livestock development in Cambodia, as in many other developing nations, has
traditionally been seen as scavengers of farm residues and appropriate attention has not been given to the
technologies or the policy/infrastructure mechanisms to develop the livestock component as a national
resource. When it is true, the requirement to sustain animal health so that livestock could deliver their
limited role in transport and traction has predominated. This might result in the debate on animal health
and disease that has predominated and issues for advances in production had not been much addressed.
These requirements include advances on animal nutrition; crops and feed supplements for animal feed
packages, management of animal fertility and breed improvement, and in the longer term, management of
food quality, processing and marketing. Although these important elements were not well planned in the
project appraisal, the component management has realized them and shared for its best practices with
other upcoming project like EU-SLPP.

98. The National Strategic Plan for Animal Health and Production: There is a continuing need for a
`Cambodia National Development Strategy' where, among other industries, the livestock industry might
be prioritized for investment of national resources. The current policy formation exercise is, as yet,
incomplete. The current strategic plan for Animal Health and Production is best seen as a plan for the
implementation of the Animal Health and Production component. It is crucial to extend beyond the


                                                   - 68 -

livestock production industry and prioritize between the many alternatives available. The essentials are to
provide options relevant to the national inputs and skills comparative with possible competitor strength.
The National Strategic Plan for the livestock industries may be extended to include consideration of
perceived advantages for Cambodia among similar industries in the Mekong region as Cambodia joins the
WTO and the economy opens to more global influences. The careful study on comparative macro- and
micro-economic dimensions of the livestock industries and other rural livelihoods can be strategically
important.

99. Planning and Statistics: In general, the implementation of the component was done well, particularly
the activities that were proposed by CIRAD expert. In 2003, although the work plan approval was late
because of the slow response of CIRAD, 15 selected staff from three ministries (MAFF, MOWRAM,
MRD) were trained in Bogor, Indonesia. Upon return, the trained groups conducted the topic on the new
role of agricultural policy planning in market economy in six target provinces and a few
training-workshops at the central level with cooperation from CIRAD TA from Bogor, Indonesia.

100. The overall implementation from 2003 till now seems to be slow due to some constraints as
follows: (a) the late of review and approval on work plan; (b) the preparation of work plan was late as
scheduled due to a few activities needed to discuss and approve from CIRAD side funded by French
Government; and (c) some activities were also postponed due to unfit schedule.

101. HRD: HRD/TM group members and counterparts worked closely with the Adviser and National
coordinator. They have shown enthusiasm and commitment to their work. In addition, through their
experience and improved knowledge and skill from working environment and training, they showed strong
capacities to fulfill duties in their component, especially in terms of Computer, English and Management.
They also became technical staff and fulfill their duties as Training of Trainer (TOT) for the component
and they transferred their knowledge to provincial staff through HRD training program of the component
in 2002.

9. LESSONS LEARNT

102. The use of loan funds to hire international consultants has been considered an uneconomic
investment in the capacity building due to the language used for communication and because the capacity
to absorb a modern technology in a short period of time is limited. A grant-financed consultant for at
least five years and a grant fund for supporting the salaries of the project staff are the most powerful
incentives to get the staff working hard and patiently with the project on a full-time basis and to benefit
from the project in terms of capacity building.

103. The (frequent) changes of the individual TA of the consultant firms are considered to be the main
issue of wasting money. The new TA coming in takes at least one month to be familiar with the project.
The mobilization of the TA without the facilities and equipment has been considered ineffective work.
The mobilization of TAs must be readjusted in order to deal successfully with the arrival of equipment,
especially for some technical equipment and laboratory equipment.

104. Since the project started, the process of preparation and approval of annual work plans of some
components has been delayed by three to six months due to lack of information. In addition, the structure
of the work plan was different from one component to another, due to each component having its own
idea on how to follow the format of their work plans produced by TA. In order to reduce the delay time
in the process of preparation and approval of work plans, two recommendations are made: (a) consensus
ideas on the format and structure of work plan have to be established; and (b) in the case of a lack of


                                                    - 69 -

information, the M&E officer has to pay more attention on the established work plan monitoring system.

105. Due to the delay of mobilization of M&E TA and the change of TA by the consulting firm, the
objective for installation of the M&E System for all APIP components was not completed. This issue
affected the collection and preparation of reports. In addition, the capacity of M&E counterpart is still
limited in regards to the design of the M&E system to manage information in such a large project as
APIP. For a new project, the M&E system must be established from the beginning and must be
consistent with the finance and accounting system in term of data requirement and time periods.

106. Several components were unclear on expenses made to each item by each component and unclear
about which items in the previous work plan is under procurement process or has been procured. This
causes a serious delay of the preparation of work plan.

107. The delay in the establishment of cost recovery mechanisms is a major problem affecting the
sustainability of laboratory activities in the future. Also, the MEF's rejection of the agreed project
proposals for Masters-level degree training for project staff was a serious problem affecting the
achievement of the short-term objective of the project in capacity building. The delay of releasing
counterpart funds by MEF is still a critical issue affected the implementation of field activities.

108. The project should continue its activities to keep the human resources properly in their work places.

109. The project should expand its activities to the rural grass roots level; the project tended to focus on
the national and provincial level and has not deeply concentrated on rural farmers. The outcomes of the
project should be extended to other areas after the project is terminated. In particular, the ways of
transferring technologies that the project has adopted (i.e., FFS and other training methods) are applicable
to similar project in Cambodia.

110. Taking its significance for Cambodia into consideration, the project should make further effort to
raise its reputation at the central level. Opportunities to make presentations of the project's performances
for government and other donors should therefore be created.

113. A double management structure, articulating power issues and undermining the tasks of project
staff and time allocation in component management caused major administration problems of over-sight
and micro management in addition to the delays in the approvals of work plans.

114. Allowing project funding to support wider partnerships and synergy is important for success. These
partnerships include national and international research, and networks with comparable projects in other
countries, especially with comparator nations in the region. Linkages and program partnerships were
underdeveloped by the project.

115. NAPHIS should be empowered as a Center for Information Technologies for Agri-food industries
in Cambodia, serving both the public and private sectors. The current capacity should be further
developed in the technologies of information/communication management that make it link even the most
remote of communities through the support to the network of district veterinary officers and the VAHWs
in sharing the knowledge and information that open up many new avenues for development.

116. Project management should be simpler with true delegation of authority and responsibility to the
components of the project so that each has its own identity, project number, objective, budget,
time-frame, agreed method and work plan


                                                     - 70 -

10. SUSTAINABILITY

117. The APIP objective was obvious. The structure was sound and concrete. Through the
implementation of the APIP project, staff capacity was built up. In order to sustain, achieve and
implement the MAFF works effectively, and to optimize the utilization of human resources, the current
structure and organization or staff of PMU need to: (a) Integrate the unit into the ministry structure or
reintegrate staff back into line departments based on skills and experiences trained from APIP; (b) extend
the services of APIP to the entire line departments to ensure that, within each department, a substantial
improvement in the standard of works can be achieved; (c) improve working conditions by promoting a
central feature of ministry development priority; (d) strengthen department staff self-reliance and reduce
the current dependence on external technical assistance; and the equipment, furniture and vehicles should
be hand over to the units or to line departments according to the actual requirement.

118. Agronomy: For the sustainability of IPM activities, the key issue is that of IPM farmer clubs. The
sub-component will continue to assist IPM Farmer Clubs. As clubs are organized by farmers themselves,
the club's members will form groups of saving funds that will support their own group. Clubs need to
work towards a more farmer-owned and demand-driven approach.

119. Animal Health: The complexity and cost of establishing and activating a central diagnostic
laboratory with national responsibilities is substantial and requires the sustained cooperation and
commitment of MAFF. Sustainability can be assured by: (a) establishing the semi-autonomous status of
the laboratory for service cost recovery, which will make the laboratory fully functional in terms of
needed equipment and supplies, and working efficiency; (b) continuing the in-house staff training
program, taking full advantage of a joint research or study project; (c) forging linkages with the regional
and provincial laboratories through more intensive field mobility.

120. The Basic Animal Health Sub-component will be sustainable given the implementation of
back-stopping VAHW nationwide integration/harmonization and support for VAHW Association and the
licensing. The continuation of program supports is necessary to better address the income security of
animal health workers located in the poorer areas. A wide range of studies on VAHW Innovation funded
by IFAD in June 2004 indicated some issues for quality service assurance of VAHW as they relate to
livestock marketing, follow-up training for VAHW, and the quality of veterinary drug and vaccine
supply.

121. Sustaining and developing the achievements of the Animal Production Promotion Sub-component
should strike toward developing practical, widely-disseminated field and association development
programs, focusing on bottom-up community participation by introducing privatization of forage plant
nurseries and integral cost recovery mechanisms. The long-term sustainability remains dependent on
several factors that require timely identification mitigation. These factors include: (a) the need for better
management of human resources, follow-up capacity building; (b) the nation-wide application for service
support and feed-back linkages between the central and field laboratory development; (c) the
implementation of legislative and regulatory statutes, promulgated to ensure the sustainability of the
newly-introduced privatized village animal health system and services and the role of veterinary public
health; (d) the main-streaming of the APIP objectives and programs into DAHP's own programs, thereby
unifying these activities as one; (e) consolidating the VAHW training program to fully cover all districts
in the country; (f) coordinating the implementation of Sub-decree No. 26 and MAFF-related Prakas for
VAHW training and licensing nationwide; (g) implementing the Food Safety and Vet Sanitary
Sub-Decree No. 16 and development of relevant Sanitary and Disease Control law; and (h) ensuring the


                                                    - 71 -

sustainability of field programs directed at farmers through improved field mobility, refresher staff
training, farmer demonstrations, and upgraded offices and laboratory services;

122. Small Holder Rubber Research: The project activities must be continued in order to record
maximum data of the natural rubber perennial crop. The achievement of the objectives should be retained
in the longer term so that the best clones can be recommended to farmers. Even where the project's
activities have been main-streamed in the Department, if it lacks the facilities to continue carrying out
maintenance then monitoring and evaluation of the project will have no significance. Operating
expenditures must be funded for at least 10 years more to complete to vital conclusion.
If the project activities will be relied only on farmers and owners of the field, the technical data cannot be
recorded at all.

123. Fisheries: After completion of the APIP Project, the DoF proposes to up-grade the Bati Station to
the Freshwater Aquaculture Development and Research Institute. This institution would function under
the government's budget and the supervision of the DoF. In December 2004, MAFF, DoF and JICA
signed the agreement to set up the Freshwater Aquaculture Improvement and Extension Project with its
first phase from 2005 to 2009. This project is aimed to up-grade the research and extension of
technologies to the private sector to develop freshwater aquaculture.

124. AET: Two factors should be encouraged to continue support to AET from MAFF and the
government. MAFF should operate officially a Permanent Secretariat for AET with its own office,
facilities and staff. The Secretariat of AET should obtain a sufficient budget to monitor adequately the
strategy implementation and to ensure progress of this implementation at school/university and national
levels.

11. CONCLUSION

125. Notwithstanding the issues encountered during implementation, the project has realized most of the
expected outputs set forth in the AR, in the MTR and in the agreed Action Plans of each IDA Review
Mission. The achievements of the APIP project were essentially the establishment of basic infrastructure;
capacity building; human resource development and management; supply of transportation means
(vehicles and motorcycles); supply of necessary goods and equipment, laboratory equipment and
materials; and the formulation of legislation, policies, guidelines, strategies and procedures. In short, the
performance of MAFF has been improved to a long extent; the staff has gained significant experience and
know-how, and they can fulfill their duties properly after the departure of technical assistance.

126. Construction of office buildings made clean environment and active performance for the whole
staff. Technical knowledge has also been transferred to farmers. Farmers have access to technical
services. Agriculture productivity has improved to some extent. The approach made farmers perceive
new technologies and its advantages and gradually changed their farming behavior. Pesticide and
chemical application has gradually been reduced, resulting from farmers' perception of he hazard of
pesticide misuse and the decrease in soil nutrients from inappropriate chemical fertilizer application.


127. Most women farmers clearly recognized their rights and responsibilities through participating in the
training in Gender Awareness and Women Capacity Building. Additionally, women voices have been
taken into consideration by local authorities and communities because they have joined the training
themselves. In addition, research programs have been implemented and information for the future
development of the sector has been built up. These achievements are concrete foundations for the MAFF


                                                    - 72 -

to achieve its long-term objective of increasing rural incomes, poverty reduction and food security.
Moreover, APIP has contributed to the implementation of national poverty reduction strategy and to the
implementation of the strategy of the government in improving agricultural productivity and
diversification. Rehabilitation of small-scale irrigation can be regarded as a success both in assisting
poverty reduction and in demonstrating the significant part which small projects and schemes can play in
specific areas of agricultural water resources development and management. This is notably the case in
respect of flood control and in the reduction of drought and flooding of crops.

128. Though the project has realized a lot of outputs stated in the SAR, at the end of the project a part
of the funds could not be spent due to the excessive estimate in the SAR for some activities (such as
overseas training, study tours, local training, workshop, technical assistant and study). In addition, the
supply of necessary inputs has gone through the procurement procedure of the Bank that can save some
money. We cannot conclude that the project has failed by comparing the estimated expenditure with the
actual expenditure. However, we can make a suitable judgment by comparing the expected outputs in the
SAR with the actual achievements.




                                                    - 73 -

Additional Annex 10. Executive Summary of the IFAD Completion Report


Introduction

1.       On 11 September 1996, the Executive Board of IFAD approved a Loan of SDR 3.3 million
(equivalent to approximately US$4.75 million) to finance the Animal Health and Production Component of
the IDA-initiated Agriculture Productivity Improvement Project (APIP) in Cambodia. APIP was designed
as a capacity-building programme for the agriculture sector in Cambodia and in addition to the IFAD Loan
it received financial resources through an IDA credit of SDR 18.8 million through its Interim Trust Fund
(ITF). IDA was appointed by IFAD as its Co-operating Institution (CI).

2.       The IFAD Loan Agreement was signed on 27 September 1996 and became effective on 22
September 1997. Original Project Completion Date was set for 31 December 2001 and the Loan Closing
Date for 30 June 2002. However, due to a period of political instability and civil unrest in 1997 and 1998,
start-up was delayed and in July 1999, at the request of the Government and on the recommendation from
IDA, in July 1999 IFAD extended the Project Completion Date to 31 December 2003 and the Loan Closing
Date to 30 June 2004. In 2004, IFAD Management approved a final extension of the Project Completion
Date to 31 December 2005 and the Loan Closing Date to 30 June 2006. At the same time IDA ITF credit
was extended to 31 December 2005. As of the end of September 2005, SDR 3.05 million (92%) of the
IFAD loan was disbursed and it was expected that the IFAD loan would be almost completely disbursed by
the time of loan closing In December 2005 the CI approved an additional budget to cover project activities to the point of
loan closure 30 June 2006. Based on that approval it is estimated that total financing by IFAD throughout the entire project
period will amount to USD 4.71 million and the IFAD Loan will be 99% disbursed by the time of Loan Closing. .


The Project

3.       The development objective set at appraisal was to assist the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
Fisheries (MAFF), to implement a co-ordinated national programme to improve the quantity, and the
quality, of the technical, human and physical resources required to promote a sustainable improvement in
agricultural development in Cambodia. This objective was to be realised by: (a) creating access to
agricultural services; (b) demonstrating new technologies; (c) regulating farming practices; (d) providing
public and some private goods and services; and (e) providing licensing and regulatory mechanisms of
goods and services delivery. The expected project outputs included: (a) human resource development; (b)
specified physical outputs; (c) sub-sector information output; and (d) policy development.

4.       The objective of the IFAD financed AHP Component was to strengthen the institutional capacity of
the Department of Animal Health and Production (DAHP) of the MAFF and selected provincial Offices of
Animal Health and Production (OAHP) and promote the development of private veterinary services to
farmers in order to reduce mortality and morbidity of livestock significantly and sustainably.

5.       The AHP Component of APIP has been further divided into three sub-components:

·        Disease Control and Management: covering policy development, the establishment of diagnostic
facilities and capacity in epidemiology and disease management; animal disease and animal production
investigation and promotion; and, overall programme management;
·        Basic Animal Health: covering the development of a village based privatized animal health service
delivered by Village Animal Health Workers; promotion of a privately operated supply chain for veterinary
vaccines and medicines; the strengthening of DAHP/OAHP capacity to support disease surveillance and


                                                            - 74 -

control, and animal production promotion programmes; and the establishment of field laboratories to
support field services and link these with nation disease surveillance programmes; and
·        Promotion of Animal Production: covering the promotion of improved management and feeding of
livestock.

6.       DAHP was designated as the implementing agency for the IFAD financed AHP Component but,
procurement, financial control, and communications with the CI was all managed through the Project
Management Unit (PMU) within MAFF

7.       This PCR is based on a Draft PCR prepared by the DAHP in August 2005, a review of the
documents prepared by the DAHP during the course of its project implementation and consultations held
with officials of MAFF, DAHP, NAHPIC, provincial and district staff of OAHP, Village Animal Health
Workers (VAHWs), farmers and veterinary pharmacy operators in the project area, members of the final
IDA Supervision Mission for APIP.

Assessment of Implementation of Animal Health and Production Component

8.       Overall the project has been highly successful in its implementation and has achieved most of the
objectives set at appraisal. The assessment of the implementation performance in each of the project
sub-components is summarized in tabular form below and overall has rated as very satisfactory.

                        Overall Assessment of Project Implementation Performance

             Project Component/Sub-component                                          Rating
1. Disease Control and Management Support                                       Highly Satisfactory
·        Effective legal and regulatory framework                                Very Satisfactory
·        Enhanced technical and management capacity of DAHP                     Highly Satisfactory
·        National Animal Health and Production Investigation Centre             Highly Satisfactory
·        Participation in Regional and International bodies                      Very Satisfactory


2. Basic Animal Health Services                                                 Highly Satisfactory
·        Village based animal health service                                    Highly Satisfactory
·        Support to OAHP District and Provincial services                        Very Satisfactory
·        Provincial laboratories                                                 Very Satisfactory


3. Promotion of Animal Production                                             Moderately Satisfactory


                Assessment of Management Performance
1. Project Organization and Management                                           Very satisfactory
·        Budgeting Financial Management and Audit                                  Satisfactory
·        Monitoring and Evaluation                                                 Satisfactory


Project Overall Rating                                                          Very Satisfactory




                                                       - 75 -

Project Performance in Terms of the Achievement of Development Objectives

                                     Objectives                                                   Rating
                                 Overall Objectives
    1. To promote the development of a private veterinary service to farmers                    Substantial
2.       To strengthen the institutional capacity of DAHP and selected OAHPs                 Substantial


                     IFAD Specific Development Objectives
1.       Village level capacity-building and empowerment of local communities                   Substantial
2.       Participation of civil society and the private sector                                  Substantial
3.       Gender mainstreaming and the empowerment of women                         Negligible/Partially achieved
4.       Targeting of poorer farmers and reducing their poverty                              Reasonable
5.       Contribution to the development and implementation of Government                       Substantial
policies
Overall rating of achievement in terms of IFAD Specific Objectives                              Substantial


Performance in Terms of Project Impact

                         Item                                                     Rating
1. Impact on Physical and Financial Assets                                       Substantial
2.       Impact on Government's Institutional Capacity and                       Substantial
Infrastructure
3.       Impact on Institutions, Policies and the Regulatory                     Substantial
Framework
4.       Overall Impact on Poverty and Sustainability of Impact                  Substantial


Performance Ratings of IFAD, World Bank and the Borrower

Organization            Performance Rating
IFAD                         Satisfactory
World                        Satisfactory
Bank/IDA
Borrower                  Very Satisfactory


Assessment of the Contribution to IFAD's Strategic Framework

9.       The effective implementation of the Animal Health and Production Component of APIP has been
highly supportive of IFAD's Strategic Framework 2002-2006, particularly in respect of its strengthening
of the capacity of the rural poor to and their organizations; improving their access to resources and
technology; and its support for the participation of the beneficiaries in project implementation.

Lessons Learned

10.      The main lessons to be learned from the project include:

·        It is possible to establish a privatized animal health service that can operate effectively and in a



                                                         - 76 -

sustainable manner in rural villages.
·        Once a privatized animal health service has been established, it is important to continue to involve
government veterinary service in further upgrading the skill of the Village Animal Health Workers
(VAHWs) and to create a mutually supportive relationship between the VAHWs and the government
service. Such a relationship will greatly facilitate the implementation of disease surveillance and control
measures that are the main priority of the government while at the same time improving the competence and
income earning capacity of the VAHWs.

Conclusion

11.      The Animal Health and Production component of APIP has been very successful in its
implementation and particularly in establishing a sustainable privately operated village animal health
service. It has also contributed substantially to building the technical, administrative and planning capacity
of DAHP and in this respect has been highly supportive of achieving the overall objective of the APIP
programme.




                                                      - 77 -

- 78 -

