Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N011 KH
Interim Fund  
Development Credit Agreement
(Agriculture Productivity Improvement Project)
between
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the 
Interim Trust Fund established with funds contributed by certain 
members of the International Development Association pursuant 
to Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of the 
International Development Association
Dated March 26, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N011 KH 
INTERIM FUND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 26, 1997, between KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA (the "Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association") as administrator (the 
"Administrator") of the interim trust fund (the "Interim Fund") established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the "Interim Fund Resolution") of the Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted 
on June 26, 1996.
WHEREAS: (A) By the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
WHEREAS: (B) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
WHEREAS: (C) By an agreement dated September 27, 1996 (the "IFAD Loan 
Agreement"), the International Fund for Agricultural Development ("IFAD") has agreed 
to make a loan (the "IFAD Loan") in an amount equivalent to three million three 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,300,000) to assist in the financing of 
Part B of the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in the IFAD Loan 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS: (D) The Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the "General Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement; 
(b)
The terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and "Credit Account", 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read "Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement", "Interim Fund Credit" and "Interim Fund Credit Account", 
respectively;
(c)
A new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows: 
"15.
"Participating Country" means any country that meets the 
requirements set forth in Section 5(e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board 
of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as determined by 
the Administrator from time to time; and "Participating Countries" means, 
collectively, all such countries;" 
(d)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(e)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of 
the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations." 
(f)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
"Association" shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, and in the Preamble to this Agreement, have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms, wherever used in this 
Agreement, have the following meanings:
(a)
"DAHP" means the Borrower’s Department of Animal Health and Production, 
established within the MAFF;
(b)
"DGPH" means the Borrower’s General Directorate of Rubber Production, 
established within the MAFF;
(c)
"DOA" means the Borrower’s Department of Agronomy, established within the 
MAFF;
(d)
"DOF" means the Borrower’s Department  of Fisheries, established within 
the MAFF;
(e)
"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12)-month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on December 
31 in each calendar year, and the term "Fiscal Years" means, collectively, more than 
one (1) Fiscal Year;
(f)
"GDIHM" means the Borrower’s General Directorate of Irrigation and 
Hydro-Meteorology, established within the MAFF;
(g)
"MAFF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and 
Fisheries, established pursuant to the Borrower’s Royal Decree dated November 1, 1993;
(h)
"PLAC" means the Borrower's Prek Leap Agricultural College;
Page  3
(i)
"Project Implementation Program" means the program for implementing the 
Project, referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of, and set forth in Schedule 4 to, this 
Agreement;
(j)
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit, referred to in Section 6.01 (b) 
of, and in Schedule 4 to, this Agreement;
(k)
"PRDC" means the Borrower’s Provincial Rural Development Committee;
(l)
"PSC" means the Project Steering Committee, referred to in Section 6.01 
(a) of, and in Schedule 4 to, this Agreement; and
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Interim Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million eight hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,800,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
United States dollars a special deposit account in the National Bank of Cambodia (the 
Borrower’s Central Bank), or in a commercial bank acceptable to the Administrator, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including, in the case of a 
commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the "Accrual Date") to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or 
canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual 
Date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the 
next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)   Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
Page  4
repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each April 1 and October 1, commencing April 1, 2007, and ending October 1, 
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable on October 1, 2016 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded seven hundred ninety dollars ($790) 
in constant 1985 dollars for five (5) consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall 
consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent 
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association, and 
after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by 
the Borrower, the Administrator may revise such modification to include, in lieu of 
some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of 
interest at an annual rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in 
the judgment of the Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element 
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the MAFF with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, agricultural, financial, environmental and technical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds (including foreign 
exchange), facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
Prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
Afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower (including, but without limitation, the MAFF) 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Page  5
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The IFAD Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by March 
31, 1997, or such later date as the Administrator may agree; provided, however, that 
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes, to the 
satisfaction of the Administrator, that adequate funds for Part B of the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b)
(i)   Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
IFAD Loan shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the IFAD Loan 
Agreement; or
(B)
The IFAD Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes, to the satisfaction of the Administrator, 
that: (A) such suspension, cancellation or termination or 
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to 
Page  6
perform any of its obligations under the IFAD Loan Agreement; and 
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination; 
Designation of Administrator
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely:
(a)
that the Borrower shall have established the PSC and appointed the 
principal PSC representatives, all in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(b)
that the Borrower shall have established the PMU and appointed its Chief 
and Deputy Chief, all in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III, IV and V of 
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which this Agreement shall 
terminate, or on the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement, which 
ever shall be the earlier.
Section 6.04. In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund, pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution, and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Daun Penh Street
Sangkat Wat Phnom
Phnom Penh
Kingdom of Cambodia
Telex:
(855 23) 427-798
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA 
By /s/ Keat Chhon 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Interim Trust Fund established with
funds contributed by certain members of the International
Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184
of the Board of Governors of the International Development 
Association
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino 
Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
Amount of the
Interim Fund Credit Allocated
  % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
2,100,000
80%
(2)
Goods and
2,500,000
90%
equipment
(except vehicles)
(3)
Vehicles
1,700,000
100%
(4)
Agricultural and
  500,000
 
70%
laboratory materials
(5)
Consultants’ services
4,800,000
100%
         and studies
(6)
Overseas training
  500,000
100%
(7)
Local training
3,300,000
100%
(8)
Operating costs
 
1,400,000
100% in 1997;
100% in 1998;
80% in 1999;
50% in 2000;
40% in 2001
(9)
Unallocated
2,000,000
TOTAL            18,800,000
Page  8
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
The term "Operating costs" means payments made for expenditures on 
account of the operation and maintenance of agricultural services vehicles, buildings 
and equipment and the supervision of agricultural services personnel under the 
Project, and for expenditures by Project personnel for supplies and communications, 
but excluding any salaries of any such personnel.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods 
under contracts valued at less than the equivalent of one hundred fifty thousand 
dollars ($150,000) each; (ii) works under contracts valued at less than the equivalent 
of one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000) each; (iii) contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms valued at less than the equivalent of one hundred 
thousand dollars ($100,000) each; (iv) contracts for the employment of individuals 
valued at less than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) each; (v) 
overseas and local training; and (vi) Operating costs; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to implement through MAFF 
a coordinated national program to help improve the quantity and quality of the 
technical, human and physical resources required to promote sustainable agricultural 
development improvements throughout the Borrower’s territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Agronomy, Seeds and Plant Protection
Strengthening the DOA’s capacity to develop appropriate technologies and to 
formulate effective recommendations for improving crop production and productivity in 
the territory of the Borrower, through the provision of technical assistance services 
and training to DOA staff in respect of: (i) technical coordination; (ii) soil 
fertility management and conservation; (iii) farming systems and crop diversification; 
(iv) seed multiplication; (v) plant protection; (vi) integrated pest management; and 
(vii) the provision of civil works, goods, equipment and materials necessary for 
carrying out the foregoing activities.
Part B:
Animal Health and Production
Promoting the development of private veterinary services to farmers within the 
Borrower's territory to help reduce animal mortality and morbidity, and strengthening 
the DAHP’s capacity for animal disease control and management, basic animal health, 
and promotion of animal production, through: (i) the carrying out of a rolling 
training program to train trainers and private village veterinaries; (ii) the 
provision of technical assistance services and training to DAHP staff and to DAHP 
animal health and production diagnostic and extension services and vaccine supply 
personnel; and (iii) the provision of civil works, goods, equipment and materials 
necessary for carrying out the foregoing activities.
Part C:
Agricultural Hydraulics
Strengthening the GDIHM’s capacity to implement effective strategies for 
developing water resources for agricultural uses through the provision of technical 
assistance services and training to GDIHM staff in respect of: (i) institutional 
capacity building; (ii) development of a hydrology information system; (iii) 
Page  9
small-scale agricultural hydraulics; (iv) medium-scale agricultural hydraulics; and 
(v) the provision of civil works, goods, equipment and materials necessary for 
carrying out the foregoing activities.
Part D:
Fisheries
Strengthening the DOF’s capacity to manage and conserve fisheries and conduct 
freshwater fisheries research through the provision of technical assistance services 
and training to DOF staff in respect of: (i) policy formulation; (ii) finance and 
administration; (iii) human resource development; (iv) fisheries regulation and 
statistics; (v) and the provision of civil works, goods, equipment and materials 
necessary for carrying out the foregoing activities.
Part E:
Smallholder Rubber Research
1.
Carrying out of a research program to identify suitable strains and locations in 
the territory of the Borrower for smallholder rubber  development.
2.
Training of national rubber research scientists and technicians in connection 
with the design and implementation of on-farm research, analysis of results and 
development of recommendations.
3.
Provision of vehicles, office and laboratory equipment and materials necessary 
for carrying out the foregoing activities.
Part F:
MAFF Institutional Strengthening and Provincial Physical Rehabilitation
1.
Provision of technical assistance services (including conduct of studies) and 
training to MAFF staff to: (i) establish a human resource development unit; (ii) 
develop and maintain a computerized personnel data base; (iii) carry out 
organizational and job analyses; (iv) conduct training needs assessments; (v) 
formulate departmental training plans; (vi) obtain  basic agricultural statistics; and 
(vii) formulate sector strategies and conduct public investment planning.
2.
Rehabilitation of selected buildings of MAFF’s provincial departments.
3.
Provision of training to MAFF provincial  departmental staff in Project-related 
activities including data collection and analysis, planning, budgeting and 
administration.
4.
Provision of vehicles, office equipment and materials necessary for carrying out 
the foregoing activities.
*****
 The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996" (the "Guidelines") 
and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
Page  10
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) 
or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers and Domestic Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and to 
works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of ten million dollars ($10,000,000) or more each shall be advertised in 
accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of 
the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or 
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of one 
million two hundred thousand dollars ($1,200,000), and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000) or less per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of one million four hundred 
thousand dollars ($1,400,000), may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Specialized laboratory equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of fifty 
thousand dollars ($50,000) or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed the equivalent of six hundred thousand dollars ($600,000) and agricultural 
materials estimated to cost the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or less 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of one million 
one hundred thousand dollars ($1,100,000), may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Except as provided in Part C.4 below, goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed the equivalent of three hundred fifty thousand dollars ($350,000), and small 
works estimated to cost the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of nine hundred 
thousand dollars ($900,000), may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from at least three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response 
to a written invitation.  The written invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic 
form of agreement acceptable to the Administrator, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work and who has the resources and experience to complete 
the contract successfully.
4.
Force Account
Works for small-scale agricultural hydraulics and installation of permanent 
markers for fish sanctuaries in the Tonle Sap Lake up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed one million three hundred fifty thousand dollars ($1,350,000) equivalent, may 
be procured, with the Administrator’s prior agreement, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines on force account.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
Page  11
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000) or more, and (ii) each contract for 
civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred fifty thousand dollars 
($150,000) or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the "Consultant Guidelines"). For complex, time-based assignments, such 
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services 
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Administrator. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Administrator shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than the equivalent of one hundred thousand 
dollars ($100,000) each, or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Administrator review shall not apply to: (a) the 
terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting 
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Administrator; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars 
($100,000) or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants raising the contract value to the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars 
($50,000) or above.
Section III.
Eligibility Restrictions 
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods 
and works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating 
Countries; consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries 
and bidders offering goods and works from such countries shall be disqualified from 
bidding for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.02 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only consultants from Participating Countries shall be eligible to provide services 
financed out the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.
SCHEDULE 4 
Project Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Project through the MAFF, which will be 
responsible for the overall implementation of the Project, all in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule. The responsibility for the day-to-day implementation of 
the respective parts of the Project shall be as follows: (i) the DOA shall be 
responsible for the implementation of Part A of the Project; (ii) the DAHP shall be 
responsible for  the implementation of Part B of the Project; (iii) the GDIHM shall be 
responsible for the implementation of Part C of the Project; (iv) the DOF shall be 
responsible for the implementation of Part D of the Project; (v) the DGPH shall be 
responsible for the implementation of Part E of the Project; and (vi) the MAFF shall 
be responsible for the implementation of Part F of the Project, in addition to its 
responsibility for the overall implementation of the Project.
Page  12
2.
The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the PSC, with 
terms of reference and resources as shall be satisfactory to the Administrator. The 
PSC shall have a membership comprising principal representatives from, inter alia, 
each of the following departments and agencies of the Borrower: DOA; DAHP; GDIHM; DOF; 
DGPH; and PLAC. The PSC shall be responsible for, inter alia, approving annual work 
plans and budgets for the Project; evaluating its implementation; and reporting on its 
progress to the Borrower and the Administrator.
3.
The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the PMU within the 
MAFF, with terms of reference and resources as shall be satisfactory to the 
Administrator, and with competent staff in adequate numbers acceptable to the 
Administrator, including: (i) a Chief; (ii) a Deputy Chief; (iii) a Project management 
advisor; (iv) a Project procurement specialist; and (v) a Project finance and 
administration specialist. The PMU shall be responsible for, inter alia, coordinating 
and supervising the overall implementation of the Project and reporting on its 
progress to the PSC.
4.
The Borrower shall, not later than December 31 in each Fiscal Year, commencing 
December 31, 1997 and until completion of the Project, furnish to the Administrator 
for its review and approval the annual work program and related financial budget for 
Project implementation activities.
5.
In carrying out Parts A, B and C of the Project, respectively, the Borrower 
shall:
(a)
Not later than December 31, 1998 furnish to the Administrator for 
comments (i) a national strategy for seeds improvement, (ii) a national strategy for 
animal health and production, and (iii) a national water resource strategy; each of 
said strategies to include specific measures for cost recovery from end beneficiaries 
and provisions for operational maintenance, and proposed action plan for the 
sustainable implementation thereof; and
(b)
Thereafter, promptly carry out such action plan, taking into account the 
Administrator’s comments thereon.
6.
In carrying out Part F of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than September 30, 1997, furnish to the Administrator for 
comments a study, based on terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, on 
the MAFF’s internal planning and budgeting system and procedures, with particular 
focus on the reporting and flow of funds between the MAFF’s headquarters and the 
Borrower’s provincial departments of agriculture; and
(b)
Thereafter, promptly carry out the recommendations of such study taking 
into account the Administrator’s comments thereon.
7.
Not later than December 31, 1997, the Borrower shall adopt, and promptly 
thereafter implement, a national plan, satisfactory to the Administrator, for 
training, registering and licensing village veterinaries.
8.
In carrying out Part F of the Project, not later than December 31 in each Fiscal 
Year, commencing December 31, 1997  the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator 
for comments the training program proposed for the immediately following Fiscal Year, 
and, promptly thereafter, the Borrower shall carry out such plan taking into account 
the Administrator’s comments thereon.
9.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
Prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than June 30 and December 31 in each Fiscal 
Year, commencing Fiscal Year 1997, semi-annual reports on the progress achieved by the 
Borrower in implementing the Project;
(c)
Prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than April 30, 1999, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
sub-paragraph (a) above on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
Page  13
from the inception of the Project (including, without limitation, the action plan for 
the sustainable implementation of the national strategies furnished in accordance with 
paragraph 5 of this Schedule) and setting forth any proposed measures to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
and
(d)
Review with the Administrator, by June 30, 1999, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (c) above, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said report and the Administrator’s views on the matter.
10.
Without any restriction or limitation upon any of the provisions of the General 
Conditions or of this Agreement: (a) not later than June 30, 1999, the Borrower shall 
conduct, on the basis of terms of reference acceptable to the Administrator, a 
comprehensive mid-term review of the progress achieved to date by the Borrower in 
implementing the Project; and (b) promptly thereafter, taking into account the 
Administrator's recommendations pursuant to such review, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and shall take all remedial measures 
needed to achieve the objectives thereof.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), 
(6), (7) and (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to two 
million dollars ($2,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to one million dollars 
($1,000,000) until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of six million nine hundred forty thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 6,940,000).
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and 
Page  14
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures.  
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
If, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
If the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
If, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to 
the Eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  15
