Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10722
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
CONAKRY URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1466-GUI)
JUNE 12, 1992
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Infrastructure Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB     --    African Development Bank
CCCE     --    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CCEF     --    Comit6 de Coordination Economique et Financiere
CECI     --    Centre Canadien d'Etudes et de Cooperation
Internationale (Canadian NGO)
DATU     --    Direction de l'Am6nagement du Territoire et de
l'Urbanisme
EEC      --    European Economic Community
FAC      --    Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration (French Aid)
GTZ      --    German Agency for Technical Cooperation (Deutsche
Gesselechaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit)
MCHUD    --    Ministere de la Construction, de 1'Habitat, de
l'Urbanisme et des Domaines
MUH      --    Minist&re de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat
NGO      --    Non-governmental organization
PPF      --    Project Preparation Facility
RAC      --    R6gion Administrative de Conakry
UNCHS    --    United Nations Center for Human Settlements (Habitat)
UNDP     --    United Nations Development Programme
UNEG     --    Union Nationale des Entrepreneurs Guin6ens
UPSU     --    Unit6 de Pilotage des Services Urbaine
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



THE WORLD BANK               FOR OFcAL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
'Director-General
tins Evaluation
June 12 , 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on the Republic of Guinea Conakry Urban
Development Project (Credit 1466-GUI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on the Republic of Guinea Conakry Urban
Development Projest (Credit 1466-GUI)" prepared by the Africa Regional
Office with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
£-TECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
CONAKRY URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1466-GUI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paae No.
reface  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
valuation Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      ii
PART   I.  PROJECT REVIEW FRCOM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . .      1
A. Project Identity  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
B. Background .... . . . . ..                                   1
C.  Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . .       2
D.  Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . .       4
E.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       4
F. Project Results .... . . . . ..                              6
G.  Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       8
H.  Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       9
I.  Borrower Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
J.  Project Relationships ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  10
K.  Consulting Services . ................                     10
L.  Project Documentation and Data  .. .    .  .11
PART  II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWE)i'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . .    12
A. Comments on Part I  . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  :2
B. Project Design  ....  .  .  .    ....      ........ .       14
C. Setting-up .the Credit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
D.  Overall Assessment of the Project . . .  .   F .   ,       17
E. Project Execution .... . . . ..                             18
F. Project Impact on Urban Development .. ..... .           .  21
G. Conclusion  ....  .  .     .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  22
PART III.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits   . . . . . . . . .    24
2. Project Timetable           ..25
3. Credit Data            ..26
4.  Project Implementation..                         .         27
5.  Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
6. Project Results               ...                           29
7.  Compliance with Credit Covenants     .     .    .31
8.  Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autthorizAtion.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
CONAKRY URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1466-GUI)
PREFACE
i.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Conakry Urban
Development Project in the Republic of Guinea, for which Credit 1466-
GUI in the amount of SDR 10.1 million (US$10.7 M) was approved on May
1, 1984. A Supplemental Credit of SDR 3.6 million (US$4.5 M equivalent)
was approved on June 4, 1987. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1991,
six months behind schedule. It was fully disbursed, the last
disbursement having been made on August 20, 1991.
ii.   The PCR was prepared jointly by the Infrastructure Operations
Division of the Occidental and Central Africa Department of the Africa
Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and che Borrower
(Part II).
iii. The PCR was compiled on the basis of in?ormation available at
Bank headquarters in Washington. It is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report dated April 12, 1984; the Technical Annex to the
Memorandum of the President dated May 15, 1987; the Credit Agreement
and its Amendment related to the Supplemental Credit; supervision
reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and
discussions with Bank staff involved in the project. The table in Part
III on the use of Bank resources was compiled from the Project
Implementation Monitoring System.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
CONAKRY URBAN DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1466-GUI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
i.    At appraisal in mid-1983, the Conakry Urban Development Project
was seen as a first step in a long-term strategy to create basic
conditions for future economic expansion in the urban areas, essential
to the success of an economic liberalization process just beginning
then in Guinea. The focus was on the strengthening of institutions in
charge of urban development, with specific attention to improvements in
the operations of existing technical and financial units of local
government, in particular to introduce regular garbage collection and
drain maintenance. Preparation of the basic urban planning documents
and of both financial and physical long-term master plans were to lay
the groundwork for future investments in Conakry.  These objectives
were extended in 1987 by the addition of an emergency program of
priority road and drainage works intended to complement the first
structural adjustment program (paras. 6 to 12).
Implemmntation Experience
ii.   As a result of the harsh physical conditions and Guinea's weak
and disorganized administrative apparatus in place at that time, the
project was very slow getting started.   This made it extremely
difficult to get a good team of technical assistants in place.  Delays
in the procurement of garbage collection equipment and the setting up
of project accounts meant that regular garbage collection did not begin
until the project's third year, and service was interrupted twice
because of malfunctioning of disbursemeat procedures. Improvement in
local government financial operations was slowed down by Government's
hesitation regarding the appropriate way to undertake local government
reform (para. 16).
iii. However, implementation performance improved progressively in
conjunction with the major administrative and political reforms which
accompanied the country's change of regime.   All of these various
difficulties were largely resolved during the project'e lifetime. The
Amendment signed in 1987 allowed for an important restructuring of the
project's institutional arrangements, adjusting for the country's
political and administrative solution. This restructuring, together
with a constant improvement of policy dialogue on urban issues, led
eventually to an overall satisfactory implementation of this project,
which played a pioneering role in attracting and focussing investment
on urban infrastructure by other donors and in preparing a follow-up
operation wlich is now effective (para. 17).
Resultu
iv. The project has met its key objectives of initiating policy
dialogue on key urban issues and creating absorptive capacity to allow
for future investments and maintenance in the sector. In addition, the
project brought about improvements in both the strengthening of urban
institutions and the improvement of Conakry's physical environment.
The project proved instrumental in assisting Government implement a new
organization for the institutions in charge of urban development. With
the support of the project, an Urban Master Plan for Conakry was



- iii -
prepared, which included the identification of priority investments
together with their costing and programming. A new Land Law was also
prepared.   The project also proved instrumental in improving donor
coordination in the sector (paras. 27 to 29).
v.    As part of the comprehensive administrative reform underway
following the political changes in the country, the project provided
assistance for Conakry's municipal reform which led to the creation of
the City and Communes of Conakry. A technical unit for the provision
of urban services, Unite de Pilotage des Services Urbains (UPSU), was
also created, with the support of the project responsible for garbage
collection and drainage maintenance in Conakry.  Services regularly
provided by UPSU have changed the face of the city, the population, and
the living and working conditions.   Although recent efforts led to
significant improvements, locally generated resources in Conakry, which
more than doubled during the project, remain weak when compared to
other cities in the region and do not allow for the self-financing of
urban services.  The development of more self-sustaining mechanisms
remains one of the critical challenges for the efficiency of the urban
sector arn is to be addressed under the Second Urban Project (paras. 28
to 31).
vi.   Priority roads and drainage rehabilitation implemented under the
project contributed significantly to the improvement of Conakry's
environment by alleviating seasonal flooding in high-density downtown
areas.  Under the project, a program to support the development of
small construction enterprises was also successfully launched (paras.
34 to 35).
Findings and Lessons Learned
vii. Throughout the project, Borrower performance constantly improved
and reached a fully satisfactory status during the last years of
implementation. Guinea officials and national staff responsible for
urban planning, garbage collection and drainage maintenance deserve
much of the credit for the achievements of the project in these areas.
viii. The political changes in Guinea during the project period
affected the implementation of all projects.  The Urban Project may
have suffered comparatively more due to t1i reforms underlying
municipal  framework  being  inextricably  tied  into  the  overall
administrative, financial and political framework of the whole country.
Under the circumstances, it is a tribute both to the Government's
commitment to the project and to the political strength of the
officials involved that there was strong continuity in leadership from
the outset, with the only major changes occurring in the Governorship
and in the Ministry.
ix.    The Bank's resolve to pursue the preparation and appraisal of an
urban project in the difficult environment of pre-1984 Guinea
demonstrated courage.  The appraisal team did well to be modest in
their aspirations for the initial project, which they saw as a first
step in initiating dialogue on key sectoral issues. The Bank did not
hesitate in restructuring the project to respond to changes in the
field. The Bank's attitude demonstrated flexibility allowing better
adaptation to the evolving project environment. This led to a constant
improvement in the quality of dialogue on sensitive issues, which
eventually allowed for the appraisal of a more ambitious Second Urban
Project.   The Bank provided adequate supervision throughout  the
implementation period as shown in Table 8 of Part III, and the
supervision reports were detailed and comprehensive (para. 39).



- iv -
x.    In  retrospect,  the  following  lessons  may  be  learned  from
experience on the project:
(a)   Although the choice of not creating an autonomous project
unit proved to be beneficial to internalize policy reform
(para. 13), perhaps it was a mistake not to have
-trengthened the project management unit with outside
support familiar with Bank procedures, particularly
procurement.
(b)   For critically-lacking financial and administrative skills,
it would probably have been cost-effective to provide for
more than the strict minimum in training. An on-the-job
training approach similar to the successful program
initiated by the consultants in charge of the priority
works program could have been usefully employed in the
other fields of expertise (para. 46).
(c)   The project proved instrumental in strengthening the urban
institutions  and  assisting  the Guinean  government  in
putting in place a completely new structure for local
government in less than six years (paras. 27 to 29).
(d)   The development of more self-reliant financing mechanisms
for the provision of urban services remains one of the
critical challenges for the efficiency of the sectcr in the
future (para. 31).
(e)   The project restructuring, adding an employment generation
objective, allowed for an adjustment of the institutional
arrangements to the country's political and administrative
changes.   This proved instrumental in improving policy
dialogue on urban issues and assisting Government with the
implementation of local government reform (paras. 12
and 17).
(f)   Close coordination between MUH, CECI (a Canadian NGO) and
UNEG (a private association of construction contractors)
proved instrumental in designing an assistance program
responsive to the needs of small enterprises (para. 35).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
CONAKRY URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1466-GUI)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project identity
Project Name :   Conakry Urban Development Project
Credit No.   s    1466-GUI
Credit Amount:    SDR 13.7 million (US$15.2 X4 equivalent)
RVP Unit     :   Africa
Country      s   Republic of Guinea
Sectors      s   Urban infrastructure and municipal develc.ment
S. Background
1.    After gaining its independence from France in 1958, Guinea ch)r,e
to turn its face eastward for development assistance during the  nis
and '70s and to follow a resolutely interventionist economic regims.
The formal private sector was largely displaced by a pervasive network
of state enterprises in all sectors as the Government increauingly
followed a centrally-planned model of economic management.   Farmers
were paid less for rice than it cost them to grow it. As a result, the
largest and most productive rice fields in West Africa lay idle while
Guinea exported bauxite ore and imported rice. Food availability per
capita declined significantly, and infrastructure of all kinds was left
to deteriorate. In urban Conakry, the population grew from 7% to 15%.
The capital suffered annually from extended blockages of major road
links during the rainy season; drainage networks, garbage collection,
and  public  transport  had  virtually  ceased  to  function.    Not
surprisingly, the city suffered two major outbreaks of cholera in the
1970s.
2.    Until the private sector was re-authorized in 1979, the Bank
Group was the principal source of external financing for Guinea. The
first three operations were loans which financed the mining town site
at Bok6 and related port and rail infrastructure for the export of
bauxite from the mining development, successfully completed in 1975.
The next five were credits funding one port, three highway, and a water
supply and sanitation project in Conakry.
3.    Staff from the urban and water supply divisions participated in
the first exploratory mission to Guinea in March of 1977. The water
supply project team was able to appraise the First Water Supply Project
in early 1978.   At that time, the urban project team felt that
additional preparatory studies were indispensable in order to agree
with Government on project description and allow for project appraisal.
A PPF Advance of US$250,000 was granted by the Bank in April 1980, and
the project feasibility study co-financed by Habitat-UNCHS (United
Nations Centre for Human Settlements) was underway by early 1981. By
this time, major disagreements arose between Government and the Bank,
stemming from the inacceptability of the Guineans to the envisaged low-
cost housing and land development approach.   Following high level



-2-
discusions during the 1981 Annual Meetings, the Government of Guinea
accepted the principla of a need for improved maintenance and basic
infrastructure in unserv'ced areas and indicated interest in components
for which feasibility studies had been completed -- municipal services
and urban planning.
4.    The project was finally preappraised in 1982 and appraised in
1983, six years after identification.   The scope of the proiect was
kept deliberately narrow to account 'or lack of familiarity with, and
minimal experience of, Guinean staff in implementation of large-scale
projects.  It was further considered that, at this initial stage of
sectoral dialogue, strengthening of urban management institutions
should be the project's main thrust in order to create the absorptive
capacity for future investment and maintenance and lay the essential
groundwork for more extensive involvement either by IDA or other
donors.    Following  project  appraisal,  a  second  PPF  advance of
US$200,000 was approved in August 1983 to complete cartographic work
and initial training for Guinean staff.
5.    A supplemental credit was approved in 1987 to finance, as a
complementary action to the ongoing SAL 1, an urban infrastructure
works program designed to create, in conjunction with similar programs
financed by the French PAC and CCCE, new employment and income
opportunities. This also offered the opportunity to restructure the
original project and modify various sections of the Credit Agreement
which were rendered obsolete or inoperational by the far-reaching
economic and institutional reform program undertaken following the 1984
change.
C. Project Objectives and Description
6.    Objectives.  The primary objectiveR of the project as appraised
in 1983 ware:
(a)   to strengthen the ability of central and local government
institutions to proficiently plan, coordinate, and control
urban growth and development in the Greater Conakry area;
(b)   to improve the management of city-wide garbage collection
and drainage maintenance operations; and
(c)   to establish the basic mechanisms for adequate funding of
urban service operations from local revenues.
The supplemental credit aprroved in 1987 added three complementary
objectives:
(d)   to improve living and working conditions in key areas of
(c;-.a%ry by expanding efforts initiated under the ongoing
P._oject;
(e)   to generate important short-term employment opportunities
through the financing of a program of urgent road and
drainage works, and the removal of   constraints on the
expansion of small-scale construction enterprises in
Conakry; and
(f)   to support local government reform for Conakry to enable
the   local   government   units   to   assume   financial
responsibility for municipal services following project
completion.
7.    Project Description.   To achieve the above objectives,  the
US$16.6 M project appraised in 1983 included three major components:



-3-
assistance to urban development planning (about US$3.7 M!, assistance
to urban service manaaement (about US$10.8 M), and drainage
infrastructure  works  (about  US$2.1  M).    The  Supplemental  Credit
approved in 1987 provided an additional US$4.5 M in IDA funds and US$l
M in counterpart financing, for a total project cost of US$19.8 M.
Most of the additional US$5.5 M was for the priority works program,
including technical assistance, with US$500,000 for assiscance to
small-scale construction enterprises.
8.    The  urban  development  planning  component  was  to  provide
assistance to the planning ui.ts within the Ministry of Construction,
Housing, Urban Planning and Domain (MCHUD) and the local government,
Region Administrative de Conakry (RAC) for the purpose of:
(a)   creating an Urban Planning Unit within MCHUD responsible
for the preparation of a land-"qe plan for the Greater
Conakry Area,  short- and medium-terim urban  investment
programming, and other urban development studies;
(b)   reestablishing basic topographical networks and updating
land subdivision records, kept by the Ministry's topography
directorate and the RAC's topography and urban planning
departments; and
(c)   providing training in urban planning to MCHUD staff through
the provision of intensive local programs together with
foreign fellowships.
9.    The urban service management component was to provide assistance
to the RAC, the local government entity, for the purpose of:
(a)   establishing  a  Technical  Coordination  Unit  in  the
Governor's office;
(b)   developing  the  operational  capacity  of  the  existing
Drainage Maintenance Unit;
(c)   reorganizing the Garbage Collection Services on a citywide
level, including renewal of the vehicle fleet and provision
of other essential equipment;
(d)   upgrading the Vehicle Maintenance Yard; and
(e)   strengthening financial man.gement within RAC and the four
city wards (Communes Popu .ires de Plein Exercice or
CPPES), including assistance in annual budget preparation
and of a medium-term urban management action plan.
10.   The  drainage  infrastructure  works  in the  original  project
involved cor n .ruction of about 3.2 km of roadside storm water drainage
channels in -wo high-density downtown areas, which were subject to
frequent roadblocks during the rainy season and which had poor
environmental conditions.
11.   These  infrastructure  works  were  extended,  under  the  1987
Supplemental Credit, by a priority works program comprising:
(a)   the upgrading of key urban infrastructure including the
rehabilitation of the drainage network elements in four
drainage basins within the central downtown area (9.3 km),
and works to improve traffic conditions and sidewalks on
the Avenue de la R6publique and Route du Niger (total
length 2.6 km);



-4-
(b)   technical assistance and consulting services to ensure
control and coordination 3f the above works implementation
(40 staff-months); and
(C)   an experumental  program of  assistance  to small-scale
construction enterprises, including management counseling,
training and financial asaistance to be administered by an
NGO specializing in this type of assistance.
;2.   The  amendment  to  the  credit  agreement  provided  for  a
rastructuring of some of the institutional project arrangements which
had been  affected  by  political  changes.    Modifications  in the
management of urban services under the project involved: (a) the
creation of an autonomous Urban Service Management Unit within the
Province of Conakry; (b) the financing by IDA of 40% of the cost of
project-supported urban services; and (c) the preparation and
implementation of local government reforo for Conakry on a timetable to
be agreed with the Bank.
D. Project Design and Organization
13.   The project was designed to be implemented through the existing
institutional framework, without requiring the creation of a specific
implemenuation unit.   The Ministry in charge of Urban Development
assumed the responsibility for overall project coordination and
supervision with the Minister himself and later his Director for Urban
Planning, acting in effect as project director.  Responsibility for
specific project components execution was shared between MCHUD and RAC.
Such arrangements were considered possible as a result of the good
working relationships between local and central governments existing in
Guinea.   This allowed avoiding the difficulties encountered in the
implementation of other Bank-financed projects, in incorporating a
successful but autonomous project unit into its line Ministry.
14.   Due to the absence of any prior major operation in the urban
sector, most Guinean technical staff had never had an opportunity to
familiarize themselves with the implementation of sizeable projects or
techniques of efficiency-oriented service management. To ensure proper
execution of the project and adequate on-the-job training for the
Guinean staff, it was considered essential that the project provide
extended technical assistance to service management positions in
several key areas. All technical project assistance arrangements were
designed with a view to takeover by Guinean nationals of all
responsibilities following project completion. Provisions were made
for overseas and local training of urban planning and drainage
maintenance staff and for identification of other training needs which
could be financed by other donors.
15.   While expatriates were to direc: two of the five units involved
in project execution -- those dealing with technical coordination of
urban services and the municipal garage -- the other three units were
to be managed by nationals, the urban planning unit in the Ministry,
and the Conakry drainage maintenance and garbage collection units.
During the restructuring of the project in 1987, the execution of urban
services activities was further strengthened by transforming the
Technical   Coordination  Unit  within  RAC  into  an  autonomous
administrative and budget agency under the supervision of the Conakry
local government, the Urban Service Management Unit (Unit6 de Pilotage
des Services Urbains or UPSU).
E. Project Implesentation
16.  Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up.   Shortly after the
project was negotiated in March 1984, President Sekou Toure, Guinea's



long-time ruler, died, and a government with a new political agenda
came into power.   The project was still able to go the Board as
planned, but effectiveness was delayed until February 1985 when all
technical and legal conc tions in the General Agreement could be
satisfied. From its start-up in March 1985, the project encountered
severe implementation problems because it was designed under the
previous regime and attuned to the then prevailing institutional
framework, economic management conditions, and monetary system.
Compliance with Bank guidelines for procurement and disbursement proved
to be another critical problem in the project's initial stages, which
led to major communication difficulties and delays.
17.   In October 1986,  the Government asked  IDA to consider the
possibility of restructuring the project components that had been
affected by the institutional chanaes. Government was also keen to see
priority works get underway.   The Bank requested an agreement in
principle on the administrative and financial reform of Conakry's local
government.     An  interministerial  committee  to  oversee  these
institutional reforms was established by Decree in February 1987. A
Supplemental Credit was proposed combining project restructuring with
a priority works program, which had been considered since the fall of
1985, as a complementary action to the SAL. It was negotiated in April
1987, and became effective in January 1988.
18.   Inpleaentation Schedule.   With the project restructuring, the
closing date was extended 8 months from June 30, 1989, to December 31,
1990, to ensure the completion of both the ongoing project components
and the complementary priority works program.   Most of the project
components were completed on time. The closing date was extended by
six months to account for delays in the start-up and implementation of
the program supporting small construction enterprises.
19.   Procurement.  The centralization of political and economic power
in the President's office prior to 1984 meant that Guinea first
established a Planning Ministry and a Contracts Office in 1985. While
certainly not the only borrower with difficulties in procurement,
Guinea is seen as having persisted, in the first years of project
implementation, in having difficulties of both a procedural and ethical
nature. The procedural errors raise the question of whether even the
most basic principles were understood or taken seriously. For example,
when the initial bid evaluation was rejected by the Bank, Guinea then
rejected all Bank suggestions for resolving the problem and doggedly
pursuea garbage collection vehicles elsewhere.
20.   Contracts for the drainage works to be financed under the initial
Credit were awarded without incident and the works were completed as
scheduled, allowing for significant alleviation of flooding during the
rainy  season.    The  project  restructuring  entrusted  management
responsibility to a consultant firm for the implementation of the works
program. By the end of 1988, procurement for priority infrastructure
works was proceeding smoothly and work had actually begun on one of the
drainage basins. Priority works on the other work sites began by early
1989 and were satisfactorily completed by mid-1990.
21.   Project Costs.  The estimated cost of the restructured project
was about US$19.2 M. The final cost is about US$20.7 M as shown in
Table 5.A in Part III.
22. Disbursements. The estimated and actual disbursements are given
in Table 3.7, of Part III.
23.   The history of disbursement in this project consists of a series
of misfortunes and major communication difficulties resulting from lack
of familiarity of the Borrower's sector agencies with Bank procedures,



- 6 -
which seriously impeded the project during its first years of
implementation. Requests for payment were routinely submitted without
disbursement requests.   The special and revolving accounts did not
become operational until very late in the project's life. The Bank had
sent $100,000 for deposit in special accounts in 1985, but, due to
reforms in the banking system, these accounts, along with other foreign
exchange accounts, were frozen almost as soon as they were created.
The state bank where they had been established was dismantled in 1985.
The resolution of these revolving and special account problems was a
condition of effectiveness for the Supplemental Credit to the Urban
Project, and documentation of opening revolving and special accounts
was, in fact, received by the Bank in December 1987.
24.   Credit Allocation.   The original and revised allocations and
actual disbursements are shown in Table 3.B of Part III.
25.   Financial project management was very weak during the project's
first years. The first audit reports were not sent to the Bank until
early 1987 following a Bank telex threatening a suspension of
disbursements. The subsequent audits have been completed within less
than six months of delays.
F. Project Results
26.   Project  Objectives.    T-e project  has  fully  met  its  main
objectives -- urban planning, urban services funding, and urban
services delivery -- and brought about significant and lasting
improvements in both the strengthening of urban institutions and the
quality of Conakry's physical environment.
27.   Development of Urban Institutions.  The project was instrumental
in strengthening and reforming the institutions in charge of urban
development through a balanced program of technical assistance and on-
the-job and international training.  A Directorate for Regional and
Urban Planning (Direction de l'Am6nagement du Territoire et de
l'Urbanisme DATU) was created within the Ministry in charge of Urban
Development.   With the support of the project, DATU prepared the
Conakry Urban Master Plan, including the identification of priority
investments together with their costing and programming. Master Plans
for the Secondary Cities were prepared by DATU with the support of the
European Economic Commission (EEC). These master plans will allow for
the reduction of irrational land development and disorderly spatial
expansion.   They also served as the main basis for donor project
identification and for coordination of investments. The UNDP-financed
housing policy study, for which the Bank was the executing agency
(GUI/87/010), further allowed for a detailed definition of a new
housing and land development strategy.
28. Reform of Conakry's Local Government. In the space of six years,
the Guinean Government has put in place a completely new structure for
local government.    Following the 1984 political  changes,  Guinea
embarked on a progressive deconcentration and decentralization of its
territorial administration, including reform of the Conakry local
government. Responsibility for the design and implementation of this
reform was entrusted to an Interministerial Committee which benefitted
from assistance provided under the project. On January 5, 1989, the
Province, Prefectures and Sous-Pr6fectures of Conakry were replaced,
following Presidential Decrees, by the City of Conakey and its five
Communes.    In  April  1990,  Ordinances  and  Decrees  were  signed
establishing the fiscal and financial regime for the City and creating
the Councils which were to govern the City, its five Communes and
neighborhoods (quartiers).



29.   The end of 1990 saw the adoption of the regulations governing the
organization and functioning of city operations (cadre organique) and
arrangements for formal hand over of accounts of the Province and
Prefecture to the new institutions.   The enactment of the Conakri
municipal reform was a major breakthrough which became possible
following Government's gradual definition of a workable plan for
allocating responsibility among levels of government for urban
infrastructure, services and financial resources.
30.   Improvement of Urban Services.   By supporting the creation of
UPSU, the unit responsible for urban services, the project allowed for
the resumption of basic urban services, including regular garbage
collection (more than doubling the volume of collected waste to a daily
level of 900 cubic meters), together with drainage and sewerage
maintenance. UPSU's sustained efforts, which continued to the present
time, led to a dramatic improvement of the environment and the sanitary
conditions in the city.  Besides transforming the face of the city,
sustaining this effort gave the Government a strong incentive to get
the special and revolving accounts functioning so as to be able to use
project funds earmarked to support urban service operations.
31.   Funding of Urban Services Operations.  Although UPSU's services
have greatly contributed to the amelioration of Conakry's environment,
the development of more self-reliant financing mechanisms for their
provision remains one of the critical challenges for the efficiency of
the urban sector. UPSU's operating costs have been covered by a grant
of the Central Government (60%) supplemented by IDA financing under the
project  (40%).    Following  the political  changes,  the  new  local
government structure was divested of a large part of its financial
resources (including the municipal taxes collected through coercive
methods) leaving the city virtually bankrupt. Although recent efforts
have led to remarkable improvements, local resources in Conakry, which
more than doubled during the project, remain extremely weak when
compared to other cities in the region and do not allow for the self-
financing of urban services. The start-up of the new local entities
should lead to an improvement of the local resources collected.   A
five-year financing plan for UPSU was prepared and will being
implemented under the Second Urban Project.
32.   Topographical  Services.    Support  for  the  strengthening  of
topographical  services  proved  less  successful.    Delays  in  the
procurement of topographical equipment led to a late start of this sub-
component.     Conakry's  topographic  networks  were  redesigned  as
originally planned. No progress was made in updating land records, due
to the lack of an adequate legal and institutional environment. Field
surveys were interrupted and priority was given to the updating and
revision of land legislation and to an organizational audit of the
Lands and Surveys Department (financed by the French FAC). This audit
led to the identification of an action program, implemented with French
assistance, as the strengthening of the Lands and Department Surveys
proved to be a prerequisite for updating land records. A new land law
was prepared at the same time.   Its signing and promulgation are
expected in early 1992.
33.   Housing Strategy.  In November 1987, the Bank and UNDP agreed to
assist the Guinean Government in its effort to identify and implement
a new housing and land development strategy. The Project Document for
this Housing Policy Study (GUI/87/010) financed by UNDP,. with the Bank
as the Executing Agency, was signed in April 1988. The Consultants,
ACT from France, were selected in June 1988 and the study started in
July 1988. This study proved instrumental in bringing Government's and
Bank's views on housing strategy closer together and helped identify an
appropriate regulatory framework to support the private sector while
integrating individual a_tions within coherent land development



- 8 -
operations. This study further allowed for the identification of a
200-ha land development operation to be implemented under the IDA-
financed Second Urban Project.
34.  Znprovement of Living Conditions.   In addition to regular
maintenance, the project financed the rehabilitation of the drainage
network in the main downtown drainage basins, which significantly
reduced the negative impacts of flooding during the rainy season. Both
environmental and traffic conditions were also spectacularly improved
through the rehabilitation of 2.6 km of roads and sidewalks along the
Avenue de la Republique and the Route du Niger which constitute one of
Conakry's main commercial axis. The project has had a major impact on
improving Conakry's environment.   Through regular urban services,
improved transport conditions and reduction of flood damages, the
living conditions of the majority of city residents have improved.
35.   Generation of Employment Opportunities.   Close coordination
between the Ministry, CECI, and UNEG (Union Nationale des Entrepreneurs
Guineens), a private association of construction contractors, proved
instrumental in designing a program responsive to the most pressing
needs of the small enterprises.  Reaching an agreement with CECI (a
Canadian NGO) on the precise features and implementation arrangements
of the program to support small construction enterprises took longer
than initially expected. The operational phase started only in early
1990 because of the Government's lack of familiarity with this type of
operation. This program included managerial and technical training,
financial and organizational audits, and support to UNEG including a
documentation  center.    Complementary  actions  to  support  small
enterprises and generate employment in the infrastructure sector will
be financed under the IDA-financed Transport Sector and Rural
infrastructure projects.
36.  Project Impact.   The project brought about significant and
lasting improvements both in the strengthening of urban institutions
and in the quality of Conakry's physical environment. It assisted the
Government in the preparation and implementation of an overall strategy
for the development of the urban sector, including (a) progressive
decentralization of urban management, (b) appropriate prioritization
and financing approach for urban investments and services, (c) improved
management of urban land resources, and (e) support for the development
of small construction enterprises.
37.   Economic IApact.  The project benefits identified at appraisal
and resulting from the improvement of the physical environment were
clearly obtained by the project.   They include:  increase in the
availability of municipal vehicles for garbage collection, drain
maintenance and other services; increase in property values due to
improved environmental conditions; increase in worker productivity due
to improved environmental conditions; and elimination of seasonal
flooding at two important road links.  Nevertheless, the impact of
these benefits cannot be quantified due to lack of data, and estimation
of an economic rate of return was not deemed practical at appraisal.
G. Project Sustainability
38.   By  meeting  its  key  objective  of  developing  an  adequate
institutional framework for the sector, the project has insured that a
sustainable basis would be in place to continue addressing key urban
issues. This, together with successful policy dialogue and improved
donor coordination, has created the capacity required for maintenance
and increased future investments in the sector. Despite improvements
in local resource mobilization, the development of more self-reliant
financing mechanisms for the provision of urban services remains one of
the critical challenges for the efficiency Of the urban sector. The



Second Urban Project, financed by an IDA Credit (US$57 M), CCCE, UNDP
and FAC, will assist Government in implementing its urban strategy and
consolidate the basis for sustainable urban development, particularly
the improvement of local resource mobilization to finance basic urban
services.
B. Bank Performance
39.   Through the Conakry Urban Development Project, the Bank made a
positive contribution to the physical and institutional development of
the sector and ensured improvements of the urban environment. Overall,
Bank performance has been fully satisfactory. The Bank's resolve to
pursue the preparation and appraisal of an Urban Project in the
difficult environment of pre-1984 Guinea demonstrated courage.  The
appraisal team did well to be modest in their aspirations for the
initial project, which they saw as a first step to initiate dialogue on
key sectoral issues.   The Bank did not hesitate to restructure the
project to respond to changes in the field.   The Bank's attitude
demonstrated flexibility, allowing better adaptation to the evolving
project environment.   This led to improvement  in the quality of
dialogue on sensitive issues which eventually allowed for the appraisal
of a more ambitious Second Urban Project. The Bank provided adequate
supervision throughout the implementation period as shown in Table 8 of
Part III (12 sw/year), and the supervision reports were detailed and
comprehensive.
40.   In retrospect, the following lessons may be learned from the
experience in the project:
(a)   Although the choice of not creating an autonomous project
unit proved to be beneficial to internalize policy reform
(para. 13), perhaps it was a mistake not to have
strengthened the project management unit with outside
support familiar with Bank procedures, particularly
procurement.
(b)   For critically-lacking financial and administrative skills,
it would probably have been cost-effective to provide for
more than the strict minimum in training. An on-the-job
training approach similar to the successful program
initiated by the consultants in charge of the priority
works program could have been usefully employed in the
other fields of expertise (para. 46).
(c)   The project proved instrumental in strengthening the urban
institutions  and assisting the Guinean  government  in
putting in place a completely new structure for local
government in less than six years (paras. 27 to 29).
(d)   The development of more self-reliant financing mechanisms
for the provision of urban services remains one of the
critical challenges for the efficiency of the sector in the
future (para. 31).
(e)   The project restructuring, adding an employment generation
objective, allowed for an adjustment of the institutional
arrangements to the country's political and administrative
changes.   This proved instrumental in improving policy
dialogue on urban issues and assisting Government with the
im4lementation of local government reform (paras. 12
and 17).
(f)   Close coordination between MUH, CECI (a Canadian NGO) and
UNEG (a private association of construction contractors)



- 10 -
proved instrumental in designing an assistance program
responsive to the needs of small enterprises (para. 33).
I. Borrower Performance
41.   Throughout the project, Borrower performance constantly improved
and reached a fully satisfactory status during the last years of
implementation. Guinea officials and national staff responsible for
urban planning, garbage collection and drainage maintenance deserve
much of the credit for the achievements of the project in these areas.
42.   The political  changes  in Guinea during the project period
affected the implementation of all projects.  The Urban Project may
have suffered comparatively more due to the reforms underlying
municipal framework being inextricably tied into the overall
administrative, financial and political framework of the whole country.
Under the circumstances, it is a tribute both to the Government's
commitment to the project and to the political strength of the
officials involved that there was strong continuity in leadership from
the outset, with the only major changes occurring in the Governorship
and in the Ministry.
J. Project Relationships
43.   Bank relationship with the Borrower on sensitive political issues
improved throughout the project and a general agreement has been
reached on an overall strategy for the development of the urban sector.
With the Bank as the executing agency, UNDP financed a housing sector
study which led to the forging of new government housing and land
development policy, the first in over ten years of dialogue on the
subject, in harmony with multinational donor policy.
44.   Eelationahip with UNDP, PAC, EBC.   Throughout the project,
coordination and collaboration with other donor agencies was maintained
at a high level.  Coordination proved effective in terms of studies and
technical assistance, with EEC financing the Master Plans of secondary
cities and UNDP financing a housing policy study. The preparation of
the priority works program financed by the Bank was similarly
extensively coordinated with that of similar programs prepared by the
French FAC and CCCE.
K. Consulting Services
45.   ConsultarLt performance was mixed. A proposal for seven technical
assistance posts was approved in November 1984 and the consultant team
became operational in Guinea in May 1985. The initial team proposed by
the consulting group for technical assistance was clearly inadequate
according to early Bank supervision reports. Problems with this team,
including poor health and psychological adjustment difficulties (two
technical assistants died within a year), became severe enough to
warrant a letter from the Bank to the consultant headquarters. The
expatriate engineer provided by another consultant firm to manage the
Technical Coordination Unit proved unfit for this position, and his
qualifications were revealed as bogus.   But he did not leave the
country until June 1986, nearly a year after the Bank first recommended
his replacement, following a letter from the Regional Vice President
promising immediate suspension of disbursement against his contract.
46.   Following  the  project's  restructuring,  actual  management
responsibility for the implementation of the priority works program was
entrusted to a consultant firm under a management delegation
arrangement (mattrise d'ouvrage d6l6gu&e). Under this arrangement, the
consultant assumes full responsibility for coordination and execution
of technical studies, preparation of bidding documents, organization of



- 11 -
bidding, and technical and administrative control of implementation.
Working out of offices in the Ministry, the selected consultant, in
addition to fulfilling his assignment in a fully satisfactory manner,
conducted an important and successful on-the-job training program for
the technical staff of the Ministry.
L. Project Documentation and Data
47.   The Credit Agreement, its Amendment, the appraisal report, and
the technical a1inex to the Memorandum of the President regarding
Supplemental Financing were adequate and appropriate for achieving
project objectives.   The supervision reports were well prepared and
project data was adequately documented.



- 12 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
CONAKRY URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1466-GUI)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
INTRODUCTION
In accordance with the World Bank's recent guidelines for the
preparation of project completion reports, this document will focus on
the main problems and achievements of the Conakry Urban Development
Project, Credit 1466-GUI. Since the project has been described in Part
I of the Project Completion Report, Part II will focus on results and
lessons that can be drawn for the future.
Part II is organized as follows:
A.    Comments on Part I
B.    Project Design
C.    Setting-up of the Credit
1.    From the Borrower's Standpoint
2.    Technical Assistance
3.    Personnel Organization and Training
D.    Overall Assessment of the Project
1.    Performance of the Bank
2.    Performance  of  the  Project's  Management
(MUH-DATU)
'.    Project Execution
F.    Project Impact on Urban Development
G.    Conclusion
A. Coents an Part I
48.   The World Bank's analysis in Part I raises no basic issues, but
the following observations should be made.
Project Objectives and Description
49.   In the absence of any exact or recent census of the population of
Guinea or of the City of Conakry, it is estimated that the urban
population of the capital rose from 7% to 20% of the total population
during the project. The figure of 25% therefore appears too high.
Para. 13. Project Design and Organization
50.   The fact that the project was deoigned to be implemented through
the existing institutional framework, without recourse to the
establishment of a specific unit for the purpose, was in principle a
positive  step.    However,  to  have  been  fully  successful,  this
arrangement should have been accompanied, right from the start, by
technical assistance that was both more qualified and more familiar
with Bank procedures.



- 13 -
51.   In addition, the appraisal  should have identified the real
training needs of the personnel responsible for direct management of
the project,  with the support of the technical assistance.   The
objective being to enable Guinean personnel to take over full charge
once the project was completed, a very special training effort was
required.
52.   The technical assistance was often obliged to compensate for the
lack of a real transfer of skills and know-how in order to meet the
deadlines resulting from the procedures used by the World Bank, which
were not always compatible with those of the Guinean administration.
Para. 19. Procurement
53.   As regards the acquisition of vehicles for the UPSU for garbage
collection, the project management was quite capable of understanding
the World Bank's procurement procedures, and there is no reason to
doubt the fact that the Guinean authorities took these procedures
seriously.
54.   A contract should not routinely be awarded to the lowest bidder.
The quality of the equipment and the existence in the user country of
an effective maintenance capacity must also be taken into account in
evaluating bids.
55.   It became apparent to the UPSU that the IVECO vehicles made in
Brazil, although less expensive to buy, were not sturdy and often broke
down. Given the absence of any agent for this equipment in Conakry,
and the inefficiency of the supplier, who did not send the catalogs
containing details of spare parts along with the vehicles, it was not
possible for the UPSU to import essential parts for their maintenance
until July 1991.
56.   Furthermore, during the delivery of these spare parts a portion
of the order was stolen before it reached Guinea. Even now it has not
yet been possible to obtain all the parts needed for full repairs to
the trucks of Brazilian origin.
57.   The lengthy breakdowns of the UPSU's trucks not only disrupted
the garbage collection service but were also the subject of repeated
criticisms by the Bank to the project management, although the cause
was not any negligence on the part of this agency but rather the fact
that the contract, imposed by the World Banik, led to the use of
equipment ill-suited to the Guinean context.
Para. 21. Underestimation of the Cost of Drainage Works
58.   The increase in the cost of the drainage works for Boulevards V
and VI resulted, as already explained to the Bank, from the need to
clear a much larger than anticipated area of rocky ground on the one
hand and the significant and officially decreed increase in basic wages
on the other.
Para. 33. Job Creation
59.   The Canadian NGO, CECI, which was responsible for support to
small construction enterprises, in close collaboration with the MUH,
performed entirely satisfactorily; its actions led to the establishment
of UNEG (Union Nationale des Entrepreneurs Guin6ens) and to the
training of its members in the preparation of bids and in business and
work site management.
60.   However,  any lengthy interval between the activity initiated
under the First Urban Development Project and its resumption under



- 14 -
another project financed by the World Bank can only jeopardize the
objectives sought.
61.   Every effort should therefore be made to ensure that  this
resumption occurs as quickly as possible, so that the gains from First
Project in terms of support for small enterprises that can generate
jobs, a vital need in Conakry, are not lost.
B. Project Design
62.   Overall, the project's design was reali3tic and satisfactory,
although some components should have been strengthened right from the
start.
63.   Credit 1466-GUI was the first significant international financing
on behalf of urban development -n Conakry.
64.   The Credit Agreement was balanced and rational in that it covered
institutional reform at Conakry, the planning of urban development,
execution of priority road and sanitation works, and the upgrading of
health and hygiene conditions, through the creation of the UPSU and
support for small construction enterprises.
65.   The First Urban Development Project confirmed the capacity of the
MUH, more specifically the staff of the DATU, to take over management
of the project, and validated the desire of the authorities to set up
deconcentrated and decentralized institutions capable of managing
efficiently the City of Conakry and the five Communes set up under the
project.
66.   The qualifications of the personnel in the MUH and Conakry City
agencies, particularly the UPSU, were strengthened through training
activities and support from the technical assistance provided under the
project.
67.   At the beginning or the project the technical assistance for
administrative and financial coordination should have been stronger and
immediate training should have been organized to enable the staff
assigned to these tasks to become effective more quickly.
C. Setting-up of the Credit
1. From the Borrower's Standpoint
68.   The Credit,  in the amount of SDR 13,700,000,  equivalent to
US$15,200,000, was financed in two tranches:
--    the first tranche, according to the initial Credit
Agreement No. 1466-GUI, dated May 1, 1984, for SDR
1,100,000, equivalent to US$10,700,000; and
--    the second tranche, following an Amendment to the
Credit Agreement dated June 4, 1987, in the amount
of SDR 3,600,000, equivalent to US$4,500,000.
69.   Under the initial project framework, major difficulties arose
regarding the utilization of the funds paid by the World Bank into
special accounts opened at the Guinean Foreign Trade Bank (Banque
Guin6en du Commerce Ext6rieur -- BGCE); these problems were resolved by
the Amendment of June 4, 1987, which provided for the opening of a
special account and a revolving account, in a commercial bank in
Conakry, for the MUH and the UPSU.



- 15 -
70.   However, these new special accounts did not function entirely
satisfactorily.   The problems were linked to political events which
led, on the establishment of the Second Republic, to the reform of the
Guinean banking system. At this time, the BGCE was replaced by the
Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea (BCRG).
71.   The foreign exchange deposited in the special accounts at the
BGCE was transferred in the form of local currency to the revolving
accounts for the MUH and UPSU opened in a commercial bank (the Banque
Guineen pour le Commerce et l'Industrie) -- BICIGUI --   under the
provisions of the Amendment to the Credit Agreement. These funds were
then used for project needs in local currency.
72.   In accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement, the
lender requested the reconstitution by the Government of the foreign
exchange in the special accounts opened at the BICIGUI tqhich could not
be done.
73.   These accounts were replenished according to the currency in
which expenditure was incurred. only the UPSU, through the BCRG, was
able to convert a small amount of local currency into foreign exchange
in order to finance the purchase of spare parts from abroad to repair
some of the garbage collection trucks.
74.   Henue the UPSU's special account was replenished to its proper
level by the lender, these funds then being used to the extent that
their small size permitted.
75.   The World Bank applied the provisions of the Credit Agreement
strictly, and up to the end of the project almost all the disbursements
in foreign exchange for the UPSU, and all of them for the MUH, were
paid directly from Washington owing to the imperfect operation of the
special accounts which, like the project's ac-ounts as a whole, were
audited every year.
2. Technical Assistance
76.   The first team was not satisfactory, and it must be said that the
more rapid replacement of nonqualified experts at the start of the
project would have yielded better results.
77.   The later years of project execution saw great improvements in
the administrative and financial management of the Credit Agreement,
resulting from better performance by the Guinean cadres responsible for
managing the project accounts and effective technical assistance in
this area.
78.   However, only the great skill (and even greater commitment) of
the expert in administrative and financial coordination from the LBII
company enabled him to fulfill his mission, since he was at the same
time performing the functions of advisor to the Governor of Conakry on
the reform of the institutional status of the capital and on the
operations of the UPSU, a very complex and diversified task.
79.   The resolute political will of successive governors of the City
of Conakry and the exemplary professional skills of UPSU personnel,
with support from the technical assistance, led to spectacular results
in the areas of public health, environmental protection and
institutional development, with the establishment of the City and the
five Communes of Conakry.
80.   However, in light of the scope of the tasks involved, it would
certainly have been preferable to separate the technical assistance
responsible for advising the Governor of Conakry from that responsible



- 16 -
for administrative and financial coordination, competently though the
latter performed in these two areas, so as to provide more time to
support the establishment of the decentralized institutions in the
capital and the UPSU.
81.   The technical assistance provided to the MUH by the BCEOM/LBII/
GROUP 8 unit, which led to the preparation of the Conakry Urban Master
Plan, was satisfactory, although at the start of the project some
experts did not devote sufficient attention to transferring the
necessary skills to Guinean personnel to enable them to become rapidly
operational in the performance of their tasks.
82.   The  studies  for and management of the priority works were
contracted by the MUH to the Societe j6n6rale pour lIndustrie (SGI),
consulting engineers, Luxembourg, the contract consisting of two parts:
--    sanitation studies, leading to the preparation of bidding
documents, and delegated management of construction works;
and
--    road studies,  leading to the identification of viable
projects and the preparation of bidding documents.
This technical assistance, accompanied by a program for the training of
HUH personnel, was fully satisfactory.
3. Personnel Organization and Training
83.   The project was directed by the Minister of Housing and Urban
Development, technical direction being provided by the Directeur
National de l'Am6nagement du Territoire et de l'Urbanisme (DATU).
84.   The two components, namely urban development and priority works
on the one hand and support for institutional reform in Conakry
Province, along with the management of urban services, on the other,
were managed by the Minister of Housing and Urban Development.
85.   This arrangement was facilitated by the good relations between
the MUH and the City of Conakry and the fruitful collaboration between
these organizations throughout the entire project.
86.   In the training area, particular attention was paid to DATU and
UPSU technical staff and to MUH personnel.
87.   The training of senior personnel abroad, including on-the-job
training in organizations similar to those in which the participants
are working in Guinea, was very effective, providing them with both
theoretical and practical insights into their professions.
88.   This training involved acquisition of the skills and points of
reference essential to proper assimilation, which enabled them to put
their new knowledge to good use on return to Guinea, after its
adaptation to the local context.
89.   Seminars were also organized for MUH personnel, and introductory
courses in computerization were provided as part of the technical
assistance for the personnel involved in project execution.
90.   Short practical training sessions were held for administrators
and fina..cial managers towards the end of the first project.  These
will be very beneficial for the Second Urban Project, but should have
been arranged in a more organized way as soon as the initial Credit
Agreement became effective in order to ensure their proper
effectiveness.



- 17 -
91.   It would also have been desirable under the First Project to
finance a training program for those who participated actively in the
work of the Interministerial Co mittee on Decentralization and who
consequently were destined to occupy management posts in the newly
established City and Commune administrations.
92.   Such training in the area of budgets and local taxation would
initially have facilitated the preparation of legislation and
subsequently would have enabled the City and Communes to become
operational more quickly.
D.    Overall Assessment of the Project
1. Performance of the Bank
93.   Ovcrall, the Bank's performance was fully satisfactory to the
Borrower, and certain observations made in the project completion
report derive from the experience acquired by the end of the project.
The solid design of the project and in particular its regular
supervision by the Bank facilitated its satisfactory implementation.
94.   Since this was Guinea's first loan for urban development, the
appraisal should have identified the need for a stronger technical
assistance component, along with training for the personnel responsible
for the administrative and financial coordination of the MUH and UPSU
at the start of the project.
95.   In addition, certain difficulties experienced with regard to
disbursement procedures and monitoring the utilizatidn of the proceeds
of the Credits should be remedied in the course of the Second Urban
Project.
96.   Specifically, many disbursement notifications never reached the
accounts managers for the projects, and the monthly balances were often
communicated well behind schedule, which did not facilitate close
monitoring of the utilization of funds.
97.   This information is essential to the Borrower so that it knows
the SDR conversion rate being used by the Bank for disbursements, and
to enable it to keep its accounts permanently updated, along with
payment dates, so that it can respond to inquiries from companies or
suppliers.
98.   It was noted in this connection that payment by check sent
through the World Bank resident mission at Conakry was quicker than
transfers through the Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea and hence'
more conducive to smooth project management.
2. Performance of the Project's Management (MUH)
99.   The tSUH supervised and directed all the project components in a
very satisfactory manner, notwithstanding the difficulties encountered
in the early years of the project.
100. The technical skills of MUH personnel, strengthened by the First
Project, made it possible to carry out the work required for the urban
development of the capital city, namely the Conakry Urban Master Plan,
which was also the starting point for urban planning and the basis for
regulations governing urban development and land use throughout the
country.
101. The accounts managers became progressively more familiar with
World Bank procedures. Disbursements were executed in a responaible
and rigorous fashion and all the original documents regarding project



- 18 -
implementation were properly maintained. These files, along with the
annual audit reports and the memoranda prepared by World Bank
supervision inissions, constitute a reference source for the smooth
execution of future projects.
102.  The excellent relations existing between the MUH and the City of
Conakry facilitated the establishment of the UPSU and the institutional
reform of the capital.   This good cooperation augurs well for the
Second Urban Project.
E.    Project Execution
103. The Credit Agreemant appraised in 1983 could not be executed as
planned because of the significant political events that occurred in
Guinea at the start of 1984.   The project had to be restructured
through an Amendment to the Credit Agreement. It was this Amendment,
negotiated in April 1987 and effective in January 1988, which
constituted the operational framework for the Conakry Urban Development
Project.
104. Project execution improved steadily and became fully satisfactory
during the final years of implementation.
105. The operation of the special accounts blocked at the start of the
project could only be partially arranged and almost all foreign
exchange transactions had to be made from Washington, leading to
difficulties as regards payment periods.
106.  Nonetheless, the credit wae fully disbursed during the period set
out in the Credit Agreement.
107. To enable the priority works and the small construction
enterprises support program to be completed satisfactorily, the project
was extended for six months, the closing date being made June 30, 1991.
108. In the area of topography the project facilitated the
introduction of descriptive files and measurement books for
triangulation. As regards triangulation and polygonation, the field
measurements were fully carried out but will have to be redone because
of new construction that has occurred in the meantime. Thirty-eight
markers were installed, 26 on the ground and 12 points identified on
the roofs of buildings.   However, because of ongoing construction
projects, it will be necessary to install five to seven additional
markers.
109. Land records were not updated and the field surveys/tests have
only just started.
110. In the area of sanitation and road improvements, the Department
of Urban Highways, Sanitation and Other Networks (DVUARD) in the MUH
identified the most urgent actions in the priority program initially
defined. The SGI company managed the studies and the works.
a) Priority Works
111. Studies. The initial plans provided for work in four drainage
areas. The appraisal was based on an updated version of the study made
by the COMTEC company, and the studies therefore initially involved
these  four drainage  areas.   However,  an analysis based on work
quantities quickly indicated that the available budget could only cover
two drainage areas, leaving a balance that could be allocated to
creating an outlet required by another drainage area.  The drainage
areas of: (a) Enipra, (b) la Gare, (c) Coronthie Sud, (d) V and VI



- 19 -
Boulevards, (e) Coronthie Nord (downstream) were therefore studied
initially.
112. The mission of the SGI company was extended in order to complete
the work and additional studies were undertaken in preparation for the
Second Urban Project, involving (f) Coronthie Nord (upstream),
(g) Tombo, (h) Universite, (i) Kip6 schools zone.
113. The work on drainage areas a, d and e was executed as part of the
First Project; drainage areas b, f, g, h and i will be tackled as part
of the Second Project. No funds have yet been obtained for the bidding
documents for drainage area c (Coronthie Sud), and this financing is
still being sought.
114. The priority works consisted of rehabilitating the pavement and
upgrading sidewalks on the Avenue de la Republique and Route du Niger
downtown; a significant drainage component had to be added to the
initial plans.
115.  Bidding Competitions.  The difficulties here lay in the a priori
determination of the provision to be made for relocating, water,
electricity and telephone networks and in ranking the bids, which took
a long time.
116.  The   Guinean   Public   Contracts   Code   provides   for   an
Interministerial Committee to evaluate bids, with the contract being
awarded to the "best bidder," not necessarily the "lowest bidder" as
stipulated in the World Bank's procurement guidelines. After various
attempts to reconcile these two procedures, the solution adopted was to
"post-qualify" firms according to a points system and to award the
contract to the lowest tidder from among firms qualified according to
criteria defined in the bidding documents before the competition was
held, in light of the nature of the work.
117. Works Execution. One of the objectives of the First Project was
to promote the participation of small construction firms, often
excluded from bidding competitions in view of their relative lack of
experience and/or their smaller financial base.
118. It should be pointed out that awarding contracts to foreign
companies did not entirely undermine this objective, insofar as it led
to the participation of subcontractors and teams of local workmen who
thus acquired the necessary experience to participate -- with the
assistance of the Canadian NGO, CECI -- in subsequent bidding
competitions.
119.  Deviations from Estimates.   Of the four sets of works, the
initial contract amounts needed adjustment in two cases. The first,
involving l'Avenue de la R6publique and the Route du Niger, was
justified by the fact that the sidewalk work, limited in the initial
contract to 30% of the sidewalks, was subsequently extended to cover
their entirety. As a result of savings made on other items, the cost
increase in this contract was held to 10%.   The second adjustment
involved the V and VI Boulevards, the increase being larger owing to
unforeseen circumstances linked to the nature of the soils and the wage
increase determined by Presidential Order.
120. Meanwhile, the borrower will take steps to reduce the complexity
of tnae contracting process and the time taken to approve awards, since
these delays generate inflation that severely impacts budgets,
especially as regards the local currency component.
121. Disbursements. Foreign exchange disbursements did not pose too
many difficulties; the Borrower will take steps vis-a-vis the relevant



- 20 -
Guinean authorities to improve procedures and shorten periods for
payments of funds from the Guinean national budget.
122. Acceptance. All the works were accepted by an Interministerial
Committee. They were on each occasion handed over for management by
the City of Conakry, which devolved their maintenance to the UPSU.
b) Road Studies
123. In addition to the studies for priority works, the studies of the
major arteries identified in the Master Plan were carried out by the
SGI company as part of its contract.
124. As planned in the initial Project, the detailed design studies
involved the Leprince expressway, the Corniche Nord and the crosstown
highways Tl, T2 and T4 south. The preliminary design studies involved
crosstown highways T3, T4 north, T5 and T6.
125. To facilitate execution of the roads financed under the Second
Urban Project, economic studies were made for the expressway, limited
to crosstown highway T2, and for crosstown highways Ti and T2 as four-
lane roads.
126. In addition, a traffic model was specially prepared by the SGI to
enable the benefits of each variant to be calculated.
127. As part of the preparation for the Second Urban Project, bidding
documents were rewritten to meet the World Bank's procedural
requirements.
128. To complement these technical studies, very important work was
done to determine the legal clearances required for the construction of
these roads.
129. As regards the City of Conakry, project execution was fully
satisfactory.  The establishment of the City and five decentralized
Communes at Conakry, in three Presidential Orders of January 5, 1989,
marks the starting point of a broad institutional reform that has been
extended to the rest of the country.
130. During the project, mayors were appointed to lead these Communes,
and elections were held for the town councils. The organic framework
of the City and Communes was also established and the decentralized
services became operational.
131. The City and Commune budgets for 1991 were prepared as an
introductory exercise since the persons responsible for managing the
decentralized taxation and treasurer's departments and the principal
decentralized City and Commune services were only appointed during the
course of that year. As a result of the financial and fiscal studies
made during the First Project and the availability of specialized
technical assistance for the mobilization of local resources, more
realistic budget estimates will be prepared for 1992 and voted by the
town councils and City Council, which will enhance the management of
the capital.
132. Implementation of the First Project and the establishment of the
UPSU, which became operational during the second half of 1987, very
greatly improved health and hygiene in the City of Conakry.
133. The UPSU's actions in the area of garbage collection and drainage
and sewerage maintenance have had lasting effects, which will be
strengthened by a restructuring study to be carried out at the start of
the Second Urban Project in order to optimize the agency's performance



- 21 -
in the area of urban maintenance and the protection of the environment
and the well-being of Conakry's inhabitants.
F.    Project Impact on Urban Development
134. The project's impact is regarded as positive by the Borrower, and
the strategic actions to vhich it led have very significantly improved
local institutions, urban planning, and the road, drainage and sewerage
network, as well as public health and hygiene, thereby creating an
environment more conducive to economic development and that enhances
the quality of life of Conakry's population.
135. By providing effective technical assistance to the Governor, the
project facilitated the work of the Interministerial Committee on
Decentralization, which led to the establishment of the City and five
Communes of Conakry and the election of town councils on March 10, 1991
replacing   the   former   Province,   three   Prefectures   and   ten
Subprefectures.
136. France provided further support for the introduction of these new
structures: in September 1990, a technical assistant specializing in
municipal administration was assigned to the Governor of Conakry by the
FAC in order to support the implementation of decentralization. The
rehabilitation of the Governor's offices, including office equipment
and furniture, was undertaken during the First Project using FAC
financing, in conjunction with training in urban management for
officials of the City and Communes of Conakry.
137. This reform of Conakry's institutional status served as a test
for the extension of decentralization to urban communes throughout
Guinea. Accordingly, elections were held for town councils in the 33
urban communes in the rest of Guinea on June 9, 1991.
138. These new decentralized communities will very quickly be faced
with the problems of collecting garbage and maintaining their drainage
and sewerage networks, and in this area the impact of the UPSU's
achievements is already being felt. Communes have asked the Governor
of Conakry to allow UPSU officials to advise them in this area,
indicating a desire by these local authorities to make the improvement
of their urban environments a priority in their action programs.
139. At Conakry, pilot actions to improve sanitary conditions have
already been taken, in conjunction with the UPSU, by the UNDP and
UNICEF. An important study currently under way with the Abidjan Water
and Sewerage Regional Group, and financed by the Grand Duchy of
Luxembourg and Japanese cooperation, is focusing on this important
question and will make the UPSU even more effective in the future,
notwithstanding the very satisfactory results already achieved under
the First Urban Project.
140. The management of urban development was made explicit in the
preparation, as part of the project, of the Conakry Urban Master Plan
published in April 1988.
141. This Master Plan was in turn used by the MUH in the preparation
of master plans for the Secondary Cities, financed by the EEC, and the
National Land Use Plan (Sch6ma National d'Am6nagement du Territoire --
SNAT), the study for which is nearing completion. In the years ahead,
the SNAT will be used by the communes to prepare their own land use
plans, and it will be an essential tool for managing the future of the
capital.
142. The study on housing policy in Guinea carried out with UNDP
financing will be applied at Conakry as part of the Second Urban



- 22 -
Project.   This urban land development operation will benefit from
technical assistance financed by the UNDP and the World Bank and will
involve an area of 600 ha in three tranches of 200 ha each, with start-
up planned for 1992 in the Lambanyi and Cobaya districts of the Ratoma
commune.
143. For MUH personnel, the impact of the priority sanitation and road
works on urban development, apart from their effect on urban
infrastructure, traffic conditions and the quality of life, and their
economic benefits, is twofold:
(a)   The works are not only a benchmark and a model, in terms of
the integrated treatment of the pavement, sidewalks,
connection of roadside properties to the drainage system,
and traffic signs, but an example of the coordination
required among the various providers of urban services,
such as the water, electricity, telephone and public
transportation companies, and infrastructure managers such
as the City, the Communes, the UPSU, etc., which must be
incorporated into future development schemes.
(b)   In the area of topographical services, by contrast, the
expected results were not achieved. Progress vis-&-vis the
Direction Nationale de l'Am6naaement Foncier (DAFO) was
very limited, priority being given to preparing the land
tenure code and to the study on restructuring the Land and
Surveys Department (Direction du Cadastre et des Domaines)
financed by the FAC.
144. The achievements of the First Project also intensified a
constructive dialogue with the representatives of the international
donors at Conakry, which in the past year took the form of a monthly
meeting to improve the coordination of activities, under the aegis of
the World Bank's resident mission.
G.    Conclusion
145. The Conakry Urban Development Project was not very large in terms
of credit volume by comparison with other projects financed by the
World Bank, but was well planned and executed on conditions regarded as
satisfactory by the Borrower.
146. The Project, which also led to the study and initiation before
its closing date of a Second Urban Development Project for Conakry and
the Secondary Cities, consisting of the chief towns in the Natural
Regions, was very creative and full of promise for Guinea's future.
147. It led to the establishment of the City of Conakry and five
Communes, including all the legislation pertaining to the organization
and operation of these decentralized local communities.
148. The election of the town councils by universal suffrage, which
has been extended to the other cities in Guinea, is a reflection of the
desire of the authorities to turn to democratic institutions and
empower the population to manage its own concerns.
149. As regards the management of urban services, the establishment of
the UPSU was a satisfactory step which will be replicated in other
communes or adapted to local circumstances, so as to improve hygiene
and sanitation as a means of protecting public health.
150. The preparation of the SDAU for Conakry has already led to a
series of studies and to the preparation of other regulations governing



- 23 -
urban development, confirming its importance for the urban development
of the capital and, by extension, the other cities in Guinea.
151. The sewerage and road works have led to improvements in traffic
flows that are essential both for economic development and health.
152. Many of the technical difficulties in mastering World Bank
procedures that were encountered under the First Project have already
been examined and corrected since the Second Project became effective.
This has been made possible by the fact that the Second Project started
before the conclusion of the First Project, creating an excellent,
uninterrupted transition and maintaining the very satisfactory
commitment and motivation of officials in the MUH, the City of Conakry
and the UPSU.
153. In the area of logistics, the equipment required to execute the
project, including that for the SGI company, performed well dE,spite
difficult working conditions (unreliable electricity supply, humidity,
high temperatures), although major repairs were required on a number of
occasions.
154. However, the useful life of the equipment must not be
overestimated and it should be replaced as necessary under the Second
Urban Project so as not to jeopardize the successful implementation of
the latter.
155. An important effort must be made in the area of training so as to
enable MUH, UPSU and City and Commune personnel, especially officials
responsible for managing the Second Project, whether administrative,
financial or technical, to build on the achievements of the First
Project, which set Conakry and Guinea as a whole on a path to progress
which must not be halted.



- 24 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
CONAKRY URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1466-GUI)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan Title:                  Loan 766-GUI: BOKE EXTENSION
Purpose:                     Bauxite mining project
Year of Approval:             1971
Status:                       Completed
Comments:                    Overflow of the company mining town of Kamsar led to the first request for
assistance for urban infrastructure.
Credit Title:                 Credit 870-GUI: CONAKRY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
Purpose:                     Restoration of water supply service, provision of sanitation, institution building.
Year of Approval:             1978
Status:                       Completed in March 1985
Credit Title:                 Credit 1457-GUI: THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Purpose:                      Rehabilitation and maintenance of part of the priority road network, institution
building, assistance to the Government in defining medium-term priorities in the
transport sector.
Year of Approval:             1984
Status:
Credit Title:                 Credit 1659-GUI: SAL I
Purpose:                      Supports adjustment program adopted by Guinea and including monetary reform,
liberalization of trade, compression of Government staffing levels, and overall
financial restructuring.
Year of Approval:             1986
Status:                       Credit closed on December 31, 1988 and fully disbursed by March 31, 1989.



- 25 -
2. Project Timetable
Item                      Original Date          Revised Date           Actual Date
Government Request                         n.a.                   n.a.                   1976
Identification (Initiating Project Brief)  n.a.                   n.a.                  05/77
Preparation                               1977-79                1977-80               1977-83
Appraisal                                  02/81                 04/81                  05/83
06/82
Negotiations                               09/82                 02/83                  03/84
Board Approval                             04/84                 05/84                 05/01/84
Credit Signature                           05/84                  n.a.                 05/07/84
Effectiveness                             12/12/84              03/12/85               02/19/85
Supplemental Credit:
Negotiations                                                                            04/87
Board Approval                                                                         06/04/87
Signature                                                                              07/10/87
Effectiveness                              04/87                  10/87                01/08/88
Closing Date                              06/30/89              12/31/90               06/30/91



- 26 -
3. Credit Data
(a) Cumulative Estimated and Actual Credit Disbursements
(SDR million)
Fiscal Year                            FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91
Appraisal Estimate
. original credit               0.6   1.6   4.3   8.0   9.6  10.1  10.1
. supplemental credit                                0.7   2.2   3.1   3.6
. TOTAL                         0.6   1.6   4.3   8.7  11.8  13.2  13.7
Actual
. original credit               1.4   2.8   5.4   8.4   9.7  10.1  10.1
. supplemental credit                                      1.1   2.4   3.6
TOTAL                          1.4   2.8   5.4   8.4  10.8  12.5  13.7
Actual as % of Estimate              233%  175%  126%   97%   92%   95%  100%
(b) Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(SDR million)
cateorv                     Original Allocation           Actual Disbursements
l.a  Civil works                                 2,265                       2,609
L.b  Priority works                              2,450                       2,266
2.a  Goods MUH                                    470                         584
2.b  Goods UPSU                                  1,230                       1,505
2.c  Parts UPSU                                   565                         502
3    Consultants                                 4,450                       5,507
4.a  Special Account MUH                          30                           --
4.b  Special Account UPSU                         95
5    Goods and Services Part E                    390                         374
6    PPF                                          318                         318
7    Unallocated                                 1437
Exchange Losses                                                          35
Total                                             13,700                      13,700



- 27 -
4. Project Inplementation
lisdicators                      ADpraisal Estimate                    Actual or PCR EstIbnate
Indicator 1                     Re-establishment of basic Topographic    Key points of Conakry's geodesic
Networks                                network were materialized.
Indicator 2                     Re-organization of the Garbage Collec-   UPSU creation and more than doubling
tion Services on a City-wide level.     the volume of garbage collected to a
daily level of 900 cubic meters.
Indicator 3                     Construction of 3.2 km of roadside       Storm water drainage works completed.
storm water drainage.
Indicator 4                     Rehabilitation of 2.6 km of roads and    Roads works completed and rehabilita-
of 9.3 km of drainage networks.         tion of 3 of the 4 drainage basins (8.4
km of channels)



- 28 -
S. Proije Costs and Financina
(a) Proievt Costs
SAR Esmtiates                    Actual Costs
SDR   US$                       SDR   USS
item                                Million Million                 Million Million
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATE:
1 SDR = USS                                         1.263                            1.394
ORIGINAL PROJECT
1. Urban Devoloyment Planning                 2.2    2.8                      2.2    3.1
(Equipment and Technical Assistance)
2. Urban Services Mana2ement                  5.5    7.0                      5.7    7.9
(Equipment, Works and T.A.)
3. Livil Works                                3.2    4.1                      2.3    3.2
SUBTOTAL                                      10.9   13.8                     10.2   14.2
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT
4. Priority Works Promram                     3.9    4.8                      4.3    6.0
(Works and Technical Assistance)
5. Small Enterrise Support                    0.4    0.5                      0.4    0.5
SUBTOTAL                                      4.3    5.4                      4.7     6
TOTAL PROJECT                                 15.2   19.2                     15.0   20.7
(b) Project Financing
SAR Estimates                         Actual Costs
SDR   US$                             SDR   US$
Item                              Million Million                       MiXlion Million
Reouirements
IDA                                          13.7   17.3                          13.f   18.7
Government                                    1.5   1.9                            1.4    2.0
Total Project Costs                          15.2   19.2                          15.0   20.7



- 29 -
6. Proiect Results
(a) Economic Impact
Original Project
The Staff Appraisal Report states that:
WAthough substantial improvements are expected in the overall efficiency of the Conakry economy through
improved transport and health conditions, and though there are in principle fleet replacement and vehicle
operations and maintenance cost savings, estimation of an economic rate of return is not practical."
All benefits assumed at Appraisal have materialized thanks to Project Implementation. The utilization rate of
municipal vehicles has increased over the 60% estimated at appraisal. Living and working conditions have
improved and land values have increased in project areas as a result from improved environmental conditions.
Traffic conditions have also improved as a result of the elimination of seasonal flooding. Lack of before
projects data on land values and traffic counts and lack of meaningful basis to estimate workers' productivity
does not allow, however, for economic evaluation.
Supplemental Credit
The Technical Annex to the Memorandum of the President regarding b,e Conakry Urban Supplemental Credit
estimates that the Priority Works Program financed under the Credit would lead to the temporary creation of
1,000 new jobs and the injection of US$1.0 M equivalent of wages and salary into the urban economy.
These economic objectives were reached and even exceeded as it is estimated that at least 1,200 new jobs were
temporarily created and at least US$1.2 M equivalent of wages and salary were injected into the urban
economy.



30 
(    U Zdies
Purpose as efliwd
Item                  at d                        aow                         -ppisal  lmDact of Srudv
Urban Master Plan        ?repaation of a           Greater Conakry          Conakry Master Plan
for the Greater Con-     prelirainary land-use     Master Plan complet-     serves as a program-
akry area                plan and of urba,         ed.                      ming tool for the
investrnent programs.                              planning of key
urban investments
and housing opera-
tions (including the
ones financed under
the Second Urban
Project).
Feasibility study of     Assist with the im-       Feasibility study        Implementation of a
the creation of a land   plementation of           completed. Comple-       new Land Develop-
development agency.      medium-term urban        r:-ented by an            ment and Housing
management action        UNDP-financed             Policy to be support-
plan.                    Housing Policy            ed by the Second
Study.                   Urban Project and
additional UNDP
assistance.
Study of the Local       Define a coherent set     Studies completed        Creation of the City
Government Reform        of legal, administra-     ard recommendations      and Communes of
of Conakry.              tive, and fiscal mea-     adopted by the Inter-    Conakry and adop-
sures leading to a       ministerial Commit-      tion of a new fiscal
viable system of         tee for Conakry           and financial regime
urban management.        Reform.                   together with a new
organization of ad-
ministrative services.



- 31 -
7. ComRliance with Credit Coveant
S_ction                      Covenant                                         Status
Credit Agreement
3.02        GOG to establish and maintain two revolving ac-   Complied with but with delays and difficulties.
counts.
3.03        GOG to employ qualified consultants and assign   Complied with in 1987.
experienced counterpart staff.
3.04 (a)    GOG to maintain the Urban Planning Unit and the   Complied with.
Urban Services Management Unit.
3.04 (b)    GOG to establish and maintain an Interministerial   Broadly complied with, ali major urban issues were
Urban Planning Commission.                     discussed within CCEF.
3.05       GOG to furnish a detailed work program for topo-   Implementation of further topographic work was
graphical work.                                discontinued waiting for the strengthening of the land
surveys department.
3.06        GOG to submit UPSU's proposed work programs and   Complied with
budgets.
3.07        GOG to contract an NGO, not later than February 15,   Complied with but with delays. Contract with CECI
1988, to manage Part E of the Project (Support to   was only signed on November 20, 1989.
Small Construction Enterprises)
3.08 (a)    GOG to mraintain the interministerial commnittee for   Complied with.
local govenmment reform, (b) to submit the local
government reform study before June 30, 1988, (c) to
submit a timetable for the implementation of these
recommendations, before December 31, 1988 and (d)
to carry out these recommendations.
3.09        GOG to award fellowships to qualified persons  Complied with.
4.01        GOG to maintain project accounts.              Complied with following serious initial difficulties.
4.02        GOG to have the Project and Special Accounts audit-   Complied with following serious initial difficulties.
ed.



- 32 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
(a) Staff Inputs
(Staff Weeks)
Fscal Year   FY78 FY79 FY80 FY81 FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91    Total
Preappraisal   1.5   .3  10.1   8.4  11.4  44.1                                                              75.8
Lppraisal                                   16.2  29.7                                                      45.9
[egotiations                                       9.1                                                       9.1
upervision                                         7.0   8.6  25.0  23.6  16.1    5.2  3.2  10.1            98.8
TOTAL        1.5   0.3    1    8-4  1144 ,O;3,5.8   1.86  j            g 23.6    61 5.2   3.2  10.1       229.6
(b) Mission Data
Project     Date     #of       #of        Head of        Staff                                          Report
Status    Mission             Weeks       Mission     Specialties                Lssues                  Date
Identif.       3/M    5        2          Carrbre      EC, SE, DE    TOR for 2 studies for urban water    4/21/77
UNCBP         projects covering Conakry region &    (Motto)
Kamsar mining town.                 5/31/77
(Carrdre)
Prep. 1        6/77   3        1          Carrere      EC, LO         Land dev. agency, housing fin.       7/15/77
Finalize TOR for UNDP study/pilot
proj., Kamsar urban study.
Prep. 2       10/79   2        1          Veuthey      UP, LO         Review study budget & financing, need   11/19/79
for maps v. aerial photos.
Prep. 3        7/81   2        2          Jakob        UP, EC         Study results & modif. to TOR.      6/22/81
Instit. arrangmts, proj. components.
Prep. 4        6/82   1        1          Jakob        UP             Project timetable & components.     7/12/82
Preappr.      10/82   5        2          Jakob        UP, CE, EC    Project scope, cost, institutional ar-   12/22/82
rangements
Followup       2/83   3        1          Jakob         UP, CE, TE    Feasibility, land dev. agency, urban   ?  n o t
mapping program.                   found
Appraisal      5/83   5        2          Jakob         UP, CE, EC    Proj. design, TA & training, institu-    5/23/83
tions, local costs financing.      (Is s u es
Memo)



- 33 -
(b) Mission Data (continued)
Project     Date       Nof       lof        Head of         Staff                                           Report
Status    Mission    Sta       Weeks       Mijsion      SAecialties                 Issues                   Date
Pre-Negot.     11/83   1        1          Jakob          UP            Procedures for for. exch. to pay op.  12/22/83
costs, municipal fin., TA, negotia-  (letter)
tions.
SPVN 1          6/84   2        2           Jakob         UP, TR         Startup: mapping, bidding dox, TA      7/6/8
procurement, training. Problem free,
improving.
SPVN 2         10/84   1        1           Jakob         UP             Effectiveness conditions, bidding dox,    11/lV8
TA selection. Problem free, improv-
ing.
SPVN 3          4/85   1        1          Jakob          UP            TA, procurement, disbursement.          5/1/85
Offices, responsibilities, TA participa-
tion. Minor problems.
SPVN 4          6/85   1        1          Jakob          UP            TA, offices, equipment bids. Coun-     7/17/85
terpart funds, procurement, TA.
Minor problems, deteriorating.
SPVN 5         10/85   1        1          Jakob          UP             Procurement, construction, training.  11/8/85
Overal status deteriorating due to
freezing of FE accounts.
SPVN 6          2/86   3        1           Jakob         UP, FA, CE    Contract negotiations for works &      3/24/86
supplies, TA, program and design
adjustments. Local gov't reform,
accounting system. Labor intensive
works. Deteriorating.
SPVN 7         10/86   1        2          Jakob          UP, Progs.     Emergency works, TA, municipal        11/7/86
reform. Proj. restructuring, funds
situation serious, overas status & dev.
impact weak. Advise restructuring.
SPVN 8         12/86   2        1           Jakob         UP, MF         Proj. restructuring: ministerial respo-  1/16/87
ns. local gov't respons., financial
mechanism, civil works.
SPVN 9         11/87   1        1           Jakob         UP             Conditions of eff. supplement: sp.  not found
acct., consultants, bidding dox, LG
reform. TA, budget & program for
garbage. Housing study. Second
project
SPVN 10         3/88   1        2           Delaval       UP             Master plar, UPSU & Celule ops,        5/2188
2nd proj., "ndary centers. Coord.
w/Patorn; & Drayton rural infrastruc-
ture; Halgr. & Locussol.



- 34 -
(b) Mission Data (continued)
Project     Date      #of       #of        Head of         Staff                                           Report
Status    Mission    Staff     Weeks       Mission      Specialties                Issues                  Date
SPVN 11         7/88   3        2          Delaval       UP, CE         Prep. 2nd proj., housing study, re-  8/15/88
source mobilization, cadastre, con-
struction sector.
SPVN 12        11/88   3        1.5        Delaval       UP, EC, CE    Housing study phase 1, mun. fin.,
UNDP          proj. financing.
SPVN 13         3/89   4        2          Delaval       UP, eC, MF   Tech. & fin. mgmt, works, CECI         5/15/89
startup, min. reform, 2nd proj.: infra-
structure, land dev, urban services,
fiscal cadaster.
SPVN 14        10/89   4        3          Delaval       UP, EC, MF   UPSU sp. acct., bldg. constr. sup-      11/8/90
port, mun. reform, housing study.
2nd proj. Appraisal: cost, fnancing,
housing, land dev. plan, local gov't
resources for UPSU. Donors Meet-
ing.
SPVN 15         5/90   2        1          Delaval       UP             Works, bid. const. support, mun.     6/20/90
reform. 2nd proj.: effectiveness,
startup, new land law. Environ. sanit
w/UNICEP & RWSG/WA.
IIN
ecember 30, 1991



