Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-37 12-GUI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 10.1 MILLION
TO THE
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR THE
CONAKRY URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 12, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =       Syli (GSY)
US$1.00            =       GSY 23.00
GSY 1.00           =       US$0.043
SDR 1.00           =       US$1.063
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
MEASURES
1 kilometer (ki)           =      0.62 mile
1 meter (m)                =      3.28 feet
1 millimeter (mm)          =     0.039 inch
1 square kilometer (km2)   =      0.39 square mile
1 hectare (ha)             =      2.47 acre
1 square meter (m2)               10.76 square feet
1 metric ton (t)           =     2,205 pounds (lb)
1 kilogram (kg)            =      2.205 pounds (lb)
ABRREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPPE   =  Conakry Municipality (Commune Populaire de Plein Exercice)
MCHUD  =  Ministry of Construction, Housing, Urban Planning and Domain
(Ministere de la Construction, de l'Habitat, de l'Urbanisme
et des Domaines)
RAC    =  Conakry Administrative Region (Region Administrative de Conakry)
UNCDF  =  United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNCHS  =  United Nations Center for Human Settlements



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
CONAKRY URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea.
Beneficiaries:   The Ministry of Construction, Housing, Urban Planning
and Domain (MCHUD); and the Conakry Administrative
Region (RAC).
Amount:          SDR 10.1 million (US$10.7 million equivalent).
Terms:           Standard.
Project
Description:     The proposed project will strengthen the operational
capacity of Central and Local Government institutions
responsible for urban development planning and urban service
management in Conakry. To this effect, the project will
fund: (i) technical assistance, training and provision of
essential equipment to enhance MCHUD's and RAC's capacity to
plan, coordinate and control urban development in the Greater
Conakry area; (ii) technical assistance, training and
provision of essential equipment to develop RAC's ability to
perform adequate technical and financial management of basic
urban services (stormwater drainage network maintenance,
garbage collection and service vehicle maintenance); and
(iii) rehabilitation of existing and construction of new
stormwater drainage networks to improve city-wide
environmental conditions.
Project
Benefits:        The proposed project will contribute to Guinea's overa'l
economic development objectives by strengthening key urban
sector institutions and by introducing significant changes
in the financial management procedures for urban services.
As immediate benefits, creating technically and financially
sound operating conditions for urban services will con-
tribute to the improvement of living conditions of at least
60 percent of city residents. Construction of new and repair
of existing stormwater drainage networks will help to ensure
satisfactory transport conditions throughout the year in
economically important downtown areas. Reorganization of
garbage collection services will double the volume of daily
collected waste. Introduction of a mechanism to assure
availability of needed foreign exchange will substantially
reduce waste of local resources in the form of idle local tax
receipts. Project activities will provide a focus for other
donor and private sector opportunities in the urban sector.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
As a long-term benefit, the reduction of disorderly sprawl,
through increased. control over ulrban growth and improved
coordination between authorities involved in urban
development activities will contribute to improving the
operation of public utilities. Both urban services and urban
planning improvements will lay the ground work for increased
efficiency of investment in infrastructure and services, and
will improve the overall functioning of the ciLty as an
economic center thereby enabling it more effectively to
provide vital support to the country's overal:L development.
Project Risks:   The potential risk that entrusting the responsibility for
project management to existing institutions miLght affect the
efficiency of implementation, is mitigated by the use of
technical assistance and on-the-job and course training for
Guinean staff. The risk inherent in any project designed to
promote institutional development that the departure of
technical assistance persornel could weaken the project
agency and comprcmise future project benefits, is offset by
the keen interest in the urban sector shown by other
international and. bilateral donors and thus the strong
likelihood of continuing technical assistance and training
programs in the years ahead. Due to the nove:Lty of the
project funding approach, RAC, the main implementation
agency, could be exposed to cashflow shortfal:Ls. This risk
is mitigated by the availability of substantial surpluses in
the CPPE budgets throughout the project period, as well as by
the Government's strong commitment to the proposed reforms
for urban service management.



Estimated Project Costs:
Foreign     Local      Total
…--    (US$ million)-------
Urban Development Planning (Equipment
and Technical Assistance)                 2.4 a/      0.5        2.9
Urban Service Management (Equipment,
Works and Technical Assistance)            6.5        2.0        8.5
Drainage Infrastructure Works                 1.1        0.4        1.5
TOTAL BASE COST                        10.0         2.9       12.9
Contingencies - Physical                      0.4        0.1        0.5
- Price                        1.7         1.3       3.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     12.1         4.3       16.4
Financing Plan:
Percentage of
Total Project
Foreign     Local      Total         Cost
--------(US$ million)…-------
IDA                                         10.7        0.0        10.7          65
Government                                   1.4        4.3         5.7          35
TOTAL FINANCING                       12.1         4.3        16.4         100
Estimated Disbursements
from the IDA Credit:
FY85     FY86      FY87      FY88     FY89      FY90
-------------------US$ million--------------------
Annual                  0.6 a/   1.1         2.9      3.9       1.7       0.5
Cumulative              0.6       1.7       4.6       8.5      10.2     10.7
Economic Rate of Return:   non quantifiable
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4777-GUI dated April 1984
Map: IBRD 17025 : Guinea: Relief and Roads.
a/   Includes refinancing of two Project Preparation Facility advances
of a total of US$450,000 approved under the project.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 10.1 MILLION
TO THE REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA FOR THE
CONAKRY URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Development Credit to the Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea for
SDR 10.1 milllion (US$10.7 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to
help finance the Conakry Urban Development Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An Economic Memorandum was discussed with the Government in
November 1983, and has been circulated to the Executive Directors (Report
No. 4690-GUI, dated February 15, 1984). This section summmarizes its contents,
focusing on changes in Guinea's economic situation and policies in recent years.
3.       Despite its mineral and agricultural potential, Guinea saw declining
economic performance from Independence in 1958 until about 1973-74. Economic
activity, with a stimulus from mining, grew rapidly between 1973-76, but again
at a slower pace since then. At present, most of Guinea's 5.8 million inhabi-
tants live at the margin of poverty. With a per capita income of about US$300
in 1982, Guinea belongs among the least developed countries as classified by
the United Nations. Life expectancy is only 44 years, infant mortality is
about 17 percent, 90 percent of the population has no access to safe water,
and 80 percent of the adult population is illiterate.
4.       Since 1976, and particularly since 1979, Guinea has been re-examining
its development policies, institutions, and relations with the outside world.
It has recently announced significant policy reforms. Important first steps
have been taken towards improved economic management and decentralization of
the economy: excessive money supply was gradually reduced; more explicit
performance criteria and greater autonomy of public enterprises are being
introduced; sectoral public holding companies have been dismantled, and a
reform of the banking sector has been initiated. There is greater acceptance
of technical assistance for planning, investment programming, and project
preparation, and increased recognition of the need for economic pricing of
*          resources (e.g., interest rates have been doubled and electricity tariffs
increased). Private trade has been legalized, state retail trade has been
discontinued, and many price controls have been permitted to lapse, thus
liberalizing and encouraging the agricultural sector. Private investment,
small- and medium-scale enterprises, foreign direct investment, and the return
of expatriate Guinean capital are being encouraged, and some private enter-
prises have been allowed to import and export most goods and to borrow and
hold foreign exchange. Enrollments in higher education have been reduced and
more students are being directed to vocational training; manpower planning is



2-
being introduced, and the guarantee of state employment to school graduates is
being reappraised, with a view to curtailing the increase in public employ-
ment.  These measures reflect a significant and broadly based attempt to
address Guinea's deep-seated problems and poor economic performance, and
represent fundamental changes from past policies.
Recent Performance
5.       Despite these positive steps taken in recent years, Guinea's economic
development remains hampered by structural problems. The economy is stag-
nating and the balance of payments faces chronic deficits. Foreign exchange
supply cannot satisfy domestic consumption, service external debt, and finance
capital and recurrent costs of existing and new projects.  Limited absorptive
capacity hampers investment and the inflow of foreign capital. The overvalua-
tion of domestic currency perpetuates distorted prices and wages and creates
an unattractive environment for producers and investors (both domestic and
foreign), affecting output and export performance. The main productive sector
- agriculture - produces well below potential because of inadequate producer
incentives, inputs, extension services, infrastructure and marketing facili-
ties. Guinea's current pace of economic development permits neither an
increase in the standard of living of the population nor the generation of
domestic savings for self-sustained growth and development. Hcwever, the
Government now recognizes the need to consider introducing a major economic
reform program and new policies to overcome current constraints.
6.       Increased domestic output especially for exports, a stricter control
of aggregate demand, as well as quantitative import restrictions, allowed
Guinea to record a balance of merchandise trade surplus of about US$66 million
per year on the average between 1979-81. This resulted in a reduction in the
current account deficit to 3.4 percent of GDP from 6-7 percent of GDP in
previous years. However, the capital account remains in difficulty because of
Guinea's inability to attract higher capital inflows while facing important
amortization obligations. Overall balance of payments deficits have thus
represented 5.5 percent of GDP between 1979-81 (about US$90 million per year),
and they have been financed in equal proportion through an accumulation
of debt arrears and by a decrease in gross foreign exchange reserves. In
mid-1982 foreign reserves covered only about two weeks of merchandise imports.
7.       Government's current revenues (about 33 percent of GDP, largely
dependent on mining exports), increased at a rate of 9.6 percent per annum in
1977-81, while at the same time current expenditures advanced at an annual
rate of 12.9 percent, mainly on account of expanding government bills for
wages and salaries and of growing interest obligations. At the same time, the
state enterprise sector has absorbed heavy subsidies not only on current
account but also in the form of capital transfers and indirectly through the
intermediation of the state banking system. In total, the parastatal sector
received about GSY 20 billion (US$1 billion equivalent) of financial support,
or 13 percent of GDP annually over the 1977-81 period. The overall deficit of
the Government reached US$3.6 billion equivalent (10 percent of GDP) in
1981.  In an attempt to curb the growth of current expenditure on wages and
salaries, the Government has enfor-ed a decline in university enrollments from
20,700 students in 1978/79 to 12,100 students in 1981/82, and has terminated
the automatic recruitment of new graduates into the public sector.



8.        Other than the enclave mining projects, most productive investment in
Guinea is of a public and parapublic nature.  During the last development plan
(October 1973 to December 1978), public and parapublic investment reached
US$478 million (55 percent of planned expenditure) averaging 10 percent of
GDP. Total investment was modest at 15 percent of GDP on the average. Two-
thirds of centrally-planned investment was financed by foreign assistance.
The ongoing plan (1981-85) projects much higher investments of US$1.6 billion
(in 1980 prices), favoring agriculture (31 percent) and industry (14 percent).
Many of the proposed projects are, however, in preliminary stages of prepara-
tion, and their financing is not yet sure. It appears unlikely that the
proposed investment targets can be reached. During the 1979-81 period, public
and parapublic investment represented about US$164 million per year in current
terms, remaining at about the same level as the previous plan exercise in
terms of GNP.
9.       Recognizing the need to maintain and use existing capital assets
better, Government has increased the proportion of its recurrent budget for
maintenance and repair. It is also undertaking a serious examination of the
viability of state enterprises and has closed some. The least successful ones
(including the entire network of retail trade enterprises outside Conakry)
have been closed down, while others have embarked on rehabilitation programs,
mostly with external assistance. Recent policies in the parapublic sector aim
at making parastatals financially self-sufficient, more responsive to market
mechanisms, and more receptive to technical assistance.
Prospects
10.      Guinea's long-term development possibilities are substantial based on
its agricultural, mineral and hydroelectric potential. However, with
80 percent of the population in the rural sector, and with modest national
savings (about 9.5 percent of GDP in 1980) combined with an acute shortage of
foreign exchange, the exploitation of this potential hinges on the country's
ability to provide incentives to agricultural producers and to attract foreign
capital for investment in mining, ore-processing, and, eventually, petroleum
development.
11.      During the 1980's Guinea will continue to face a serious foreign
exchange constraint, despite the projected entry into operation of a diamond
mine in 1984. Existing mining operations have few prospects for expansion in
the coming years, and the downward trend in agricultural exports will be hard
to reverse. At the same time price distortions linked to the overvalued
exchange rate discourage the substitution of the large food imports by
domestic production, while the debt service burden remai ns heavy.
12.      At present Guinea is excessively dependent on bauxite mining for its
foreign exchange. Diversification of its mineral production is thus a key
element in the country's longer-term development strategy. Iron ore mining
is one possibility now under active investigation. Oil exploration would
be another.
13.      The Bank is assisting the Government to formulate and implement a
rehabilitation program aimed at further encouraging private sector develop-
ment, notably in agriculture, increasing the efficiency of the public sector,



-4-
and improving resource management. Particularly crucial will be the Govern-
ment's success in correcting price and exchange rate distortions, improving
the structure of agricultural incentives and ensuring rational programming of
public investments. The forthcoming Economic Memorandum analyzes the policy
options available to the Government;. A major Agricultural Sector Review
organized by the Bank with the support of several other agencies (CIDA, USAID,
CCCE, IFAD, UNESCO) in November/December 1982, r-epresents a significant step
in assisting the Government to reform agricultural sector policies.  However,
if the Government were to embark oIn major reforms, Guinea would face a diffi-
cult transition period during the 4980's when increased foreign assistance, on
concessional terms, would be needed to ease the balance of payments difficul-
ties and contribute to a gradual realization of t'he country's considerable
development potential.
Foreign Assistance and External Debt
14.      Since 1975-76, Guinea has been diversifying its sources of foreign
assistance through renewed ties with the western industrialized countries,
expanded relations with Arab nations and with mualtilateral sources.  Guinea
qualified for drawings under the IMF first credit tranche and trust fund
facilities, and successfully negotiated a Stand-By Agreement in 1982.
However, this agreement has now lapsed due to the Government's inability to
meet some of the agreed financial performance criteria, and to reach an
understanding with the Fund on the issue of adjusting the overvalued
exchange rate.
15.      The accumulation of foreign debt to finance investments in infra-
structure and public enterprises, as well as consumner goods, has resulted in a
burden of foreign obligations which is, and willl remain for years, a major
problem. Guinea's outstanding pub:iic and priva-te external guaranteed debt
exceeded US$1.5 billion as of December 31, 1982, of which US$1.2 billion
(76 percent of GNP) was disbursed.  Service obl:Lgations on this debt are
projected at US$132 million per annum over 1983-87.  Foreign exchange
shortages have hindered the payment of debt service, and outstanding arrears
totalled US$176 million at the end of 1982. The ratio of public and publicly
guaranteed debt service obligations to gross export earnings in 1981 was
about 28 percent. Actual service payments on this debt amounted to about
17 percent of export receipts.  Private non-guar.anteed debt is estimated at
US$300 million in 1982 (20 percent of GNP), and its debt service represented
about 10 percent of the 1981 expor1 earnings.
16.      Although Guinea's debt servicing has shown some improvement,
accumulated arrears are likely to increase in absolute terms unless there is
new debt rescheduling or major changes in the present allocation of foreign
exchange.  The Government has addressed the problem through bilateral debt
rescheduling, and measures to improve debt management via the External Debt
Department in the Central Bank, to which the Bank has provided technical
advice as part of its economic work. Governmen-t has also undertaken both a
stricter control of investments financed by external credits and a more
judicious official import program. The pressure on imports was somewhat
relieved in recent years by official toleration of some private exports at the
free rate outside official foreign exchange channels. However successful



- 5 -
these operations may be, Guinea will have to rely on substantial amounts of
foreign assistance on concessional terms during the next few years. This will
be needed not only for investment purposes, but also to provide foreign
exchange for intermediate and consumer good imports which are vital to
stimulate economic activity and relieve supply constraints, particularly in
tee rliral sector.  Furthermore, net public savings after debt service will be
iciadequatt antil at least the late 1980s, and local cost and recurrent
expenditure financing by external sources will be needed.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
17.      The first Bank Group operation in Guinea comprised two loans in FY68
and FY71 for the very successful bauxite mining project at Boke. This project
was followed by IDA credits in the mid-1970's for pineapple production and the
rehabilitation of roads. Encouraged by the first results of these projects,
the Bank Group began to diversify and expand its lending program, based upon
broad priorities agreed with Government: (i) rehabilitation and maintenance
of basic infrastructure; (ii) improvement of human resources; (iii) mining
development; and (iv) development of the rural sector. IDA operations in each
of these areas have been approved, with particular emphasis on sectoral
planning, institution building and training. Thus, the Power Engineering
project and subsequent First Power project (FYs79, 81) are rehabilitating the
Conakry power system. A Water Supply project (FY79) which provides similar
assistance, is proceeding well and will be complemented by drainage activities
under the proposed project (para. 47(b)). The Second Highway project (FY80)
was successfully completed in early 1984.  A Third Highway project has been
appraised, and will be presented to the Board later in FY84. Enterprise
Rehabilitation programs under the Industrial Rehabilitation Promotion project
(FY81) have begun. A first IFC operation, to the AREDOR diamond mining
company, has also made a good start. The FY79 First Education project was
satisfactorily implemented and provided a sound basis for the Second Education
project (FY82), which is proceeding well. Physical implementation of the
Conakry Port project (FY82) is also on schedule, as is the execution of the
Petroleum Exploration Promotion project, approved in January 1984.
18.      It is in the rural sector that the Government has experienced the
greatest difficulty in harnessing its development potential. Logistical
support for the rural sector, financial incentives, access to modern techno-
logy and applied agricultural research, have been almost nonexistent. To deal
with these fundamental problems, the Association has supported intervention in
two sub-sectors with substantial growth potential. The Livestock Development
project (FY81), which aimed at strengthening the national livestock planning
institutions, improving animal health and productivity and training livestock
sector staff, had substantial implementation problems due to the continuation
of enforced government cattle purchasing. Following intensive discussions,
the Credit was cancelled on September 12, 1983. The Rice Development project
(FY80) stresses national institution-building and introduces pilot low-cost
improved rice production methods in an area with high potential. A study of
agricultural prices and rural incentives has been completed and the'Government
has accepted the need for improved incentives. As part of the intensive
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government, a major Agricultural



-6-
Sector Review (para. 13) provides a focus for new directions for agricultural
development and policy formulation, including a follow-up Rice project which
will be appraised later this year.
19.      Bank Group operations in Guinea now include twelve IDA Credits
totalling US$64.9 million and SDR 70.3 million, and two Bank loans totalling
US$73.5 million. Guinea's disbursement rate (disbursements in relation to the
undisbursed balance) compares very favorably with that of other countries,
averaging 40 percent during the past five years, compared with 24 percent for
the Western Africa Region and 22 percent for the Bank/IDA as a whole.
Guinea's rate also compares favorably with those of other countries at similar
levels of per capita income and develop-ent.
20.      Current Strategy.  The proposed Bank Group lending program, supported
by an expanded program of economic and sector work, is based on a strategy of
promoting growth through support to the directly productive sectors. Projects
encourage key sectoral policy reforms to improve existing econcmic mechanisms,
promote market forces and improved price incentives, and increase the efficiency
and quality of Government services. Specific targets are: (i) giving priority
to projects, that increase production and exports; (ii) improving absorptive
capacity in those social and infrastructure sectors such as transport and urban
services, sectors which support the productive sectors, through rehabilitation,
technical and managerial training; (iii) introducing technical assistance
directed towards policy reforms, improved economic management and resource
allocation; and (iv) improving capital flows through the promotion of private
investment and increasing the level of cofinancing. The proposed project
supports these goals (paras. 41-42).
21.      Following discussion of the Country Economic Memorandum, IDA is
working with the Government to prepare a major economic reform program. The
Bank has discussed with Government the price and incentive structure for
agriculture, and is seeking to increase the sectoral knowledge necessary to
develop, and, conditional upon policy changes, expand agricultural
operations.  It is equally important for the Bank to deepen its understanding
of the industrial sector through additional sector work and policy
discussions, possibly leading to a second industrial rehabilitation and
promotion operation. The Bank is providing technical advice to Government for
the proposed Mifergui-Nimba iron ore proiect, as well as for a master plan of
the country's water resources, which will help prepare a strategy for
hydroelectric development.
22.      The Bank Group's share of Guinea's external debt (public and private
guaranteed) at the end of 1980 stood at about 8 percent (including
undisbursed). Its portion of external debt disbursed is expected to be
11 percent by 1985 compared with 8 percent in 1981; its share of debt service
on public debt and private debt guaranteed, 6.6 percent in 1980, is expected
to decline to 3.7 percent by 1985.



PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Background
23.      While agricultural production has fallen and economic and living
conditions in rural areas have deteriorated during the last two decades, there
has been a steady increase in the relative importance of the urban sector.
Indeed, probably around 50 percent of GDP is now generated in urban areas.
Although population data are scarce and--where available--of doubtful
accuracy, the urban population is estimated to have grown at about 6 percent
annually during the last 25 years. While the share of population living
in centers of 10,000 and more was only 7 percent of total population at
Independence, it now probably exceeds 25 percent, or 1.5 million Guineans
according to the February 1983 census. Around 45 percent of this total urban
population is concentrated in Conakry, Guinea's capital, (705,000 in 1983)
while the next three largest towns shelter only another 10 to 12 percent0
Conakry
24.      Conakry is located on a narrow and ridged peninsula that extends
more than 35 km through mangrove swamps into the open sea. At Independence,
the city had a population estimated at about 100,000. Growing rapidly at an
annual rate of over 6.5 percent, its population reached around 440,000 in
1972, and exceeded 700,000 in 1983. This explosive population growth was
accompanied by geographical expansion, with the city more than quadrupling in
size since Independence, from about 650 ha in 1958 to almost 3,000 ha in
1981. Should the existing trends prevail, Conakry's population is likely to
double by the year 2000 to 1.4 million inhabitants or about 70 percent of the
country's total urban population. Geographically, the city will more than
triple in area, reaching 10,000 ha.
25.      Conakry is Guinea's main economic and industrial center.  Over
60 percent of all state industrial enterprises are located in the Conakry area
and they account for about 50 percent of employment in the secondary sector.
Proportions are similar for trade and public administration. Reliable data on
employment and income distribution are scarce. According to a 1981 survey,
average monthly household income in Conakry was estimated at GSY 11 ,800
(US$510), a figure which does not include frequent additional non-monetary
incomes, but is also likely to be significantly overstated due to the
overvaluation of the Guinean currency. It is difficult, however, to establish
cost of living indices, since prices vary widely according to the availability
of vital goods, and absolute poverty may be more widespread than the wage
figures indicate.
26.      Today's urban conditions in Conakry largely reflect the problems and
shortcomings of Guinea's overall economic development process since Indepen-
dence: weakness of key institutions arising from the dearth of adequately



- 8 -
trained staff; shortfall of investments in basic infrastructure and utilities;
and lack of maintenance of existing assets due to chronic unavailability of
foreign exchange for recurrent cost financing.
27.      Conakry's growth since Independence has taken place with only little
urban development planning or control. Authorities in charge of urban planning
and management have met increasing difficulties to plan for spatial expansion
and land development, to identify, coordinate and carry out critically needed
investments in basic infrastructure and services, or to ensure proper mainte-
nance of existing assets. As a result, the city's older districts have become
critically overcrowded with densities exceeding 1,OOO habitants/ha in various
areas. Urban spread has been very uneven, with population growt:h concentrated
along the two main roads which leadc from the city inland along -the two edges of
the peninsula. Newer settlements stretch as far as 25 kms along these roads
while the hilly areas in between are but sparsely inhab- ted.
28.      Most of the post independence urban extension has been undertaken on
an ad hoc basis.  Land is state property in Guinea and is allocated to indi-
viduals in the form of perpetual, rnon-tradable occupancy rights. Land divi-
sion and allocation procedures are cumbersome, and allocation of plots has
barely filled more than one-third of actual demand during the last years. In
addition, efficient land management has been persistently hampered by the lack
of cartographical documents and the breakup of basic topographical networks.
Currently, it is in many areas nearly impossible to ascertain actual tenure
status which would be necessary to implement a functioning cadastral system.
Although an official allocation is, in principle, required to obtain
construction materials at official prices by state-run agencies, probably
more than two-thirds of new houses have been built outside the legally
subdivided areas.
29.      Investment in urban infrastructure, services and public utilities in
Conakry has remained far below minimal requirements. Except for some recent
street resurfacing works, road investment has been insignificant over most of
the last two decades, and the currently existing network barely exceeds the
one that existed at Independence (at least with respect to roads suited to
vehicular access). Transport, a crucial issue given the city's 'strip'
development pattern, has become an overwhelming problem in the day-to-day life
of city inhabitants since public transport companies, hampered by inadequate
management and poor road infrastructure, have virtually ceased to operate.
Though steadily improving as a result of recent IDA projects (First Water and
Sanitation project and First Power project), conditions of water and power
supply remain largely unsatisfactory. Over 60 percent of Conakry households
are still deprived of access to safe water and have to resort to supply from
wells or contaminated rivers. Power supply is plagued by chronic breakdowns
which severely affect the functioning of the city's economic activities.
A 45 llm stormwater drainage network built in pre-independence days in the
older parts of the city has never been extended.



- 9 -
30.      The lack  f systematic maintenance and the erratic functioning of
urban services have caused a steady deterioration of environmental conditions
in both the city's older districts and the recent extensions. Deficiencies in
maintenance of the stormwater drainage system is, given the heavy annual rain-
fall (165 inches/4,200mm), one of the most crucial problems. Due to almost
total lack of maintenance, much of the drainage network has fallen into
disrepair. Severe flooding occurs yearly in several areas and leads to
extended road blockages on even major transport links, and rapid deterioration
of road surfaces. Encroachments by other utility networks, mud deposits,
combined with indiscriminate waste disposal owing to ineffective garbage
collection further contribute to restrict the effectiveness of stormwater
drainage. Recent attempts undertaken through the IDA First Water and
Sanitation project to establish routine maintenance on the network have,
however, shown promising results. Insufficient garbage collection contributes
significantly to Conakry's hazardous health conditions. Lack of suitable road
access, particularly in the more recently developed areas, deprives large
portions of the city with the possibility of any collection service. Even in
serviced areas, collection is at best erratic, and only about one-fifth of
daily produced waste is actually collected.
Sector Policy and Institutions
31.      While the Government's political philosophy still emphasizes a strong
commitment to the improvement of rural productivity, urban concerns are
capturing an increasing share of development attention. Although
comprehensive urban development and urban management policies have yet to be
defined, the Government has become increasingly aware of the necessity to
prevent further decline of living and operating conditions in urban areas and
to assert the role of cities in the country's overall economic development
process. While the Government has initially directed its main efforts to
attempts (thus far unsuccessful) to overcome the problems of housing shortage
through public, large-scale shelter construction programs, it has also
acknowledged the need for establishing appropriate institutional mechanisms to
ensure proficient planning, coordination and control of urban development
growth.
32.      Despite the centralized structure of the Guinean institutional
framework, authorities involved in urban development activities have
frequently encountered difficulties in coordinating effectively. Though in
principle the institutional structure provides for such a coordination,
conflicts arising from overlapping responsibilities often affect the
implementation of otherwise worthwhile projects. To eliminate the adverse
effects of this lack of coordination, the Ministry of Construction, Housing,
Urban Planning and Domain (MCHUD) was created in 1979 and vested with the
responsibility to control and coordinate urban development activities, whether
undertaken by its own services or those of any other authority, and to ensure
consistency of such activities with overall sector development objectives. In
reality, MCHUD has, however, met considerable difficulty in fully carrying out
these responsibilities, mainly because of the lack of experience of its
predominantly locally trained staff or the unavailability of critically needed
equipment and supplies.



- 10 -
33.      As a central government authority, MCHUD is primarily responsible for
nation-wide planning, coordination and promotion of development activities in
the areas of construction, housin,g, urban planning and land management.  In
this respect, it is, throtugh its Directorate General of Urban Planning,
responsible for preparing comprehensive long-term urban planning studies
(masterplan studies) and reviewing detailed urban planning and design studies
prepared by the relevant service departments of regional and local
authorities. It is also responsible, through its Directorate General of
Topography for preserving and extending general topographical networks used as
a basis for land subdivisions exeouted under its control by the respective
service departments of regional and local authorities.
34.      Urban management in Conakry is a responsibility of the Conakry Admin-
istrative Region (RAC) and the three Conakry Municipalities (CPPEs) under its
administrative control. This institutional system is relatively new. It is
the result of a reform of the local administrative system undertaken in
1980, in the course of which urban management responsibilities--and the
corresponding resources--were largely shifted from RAC, until then the sole
municipal authority in Conakry, to the newly created entities. Under the
prevailing institutional arrangements, RAC acts in principle as an overseeing
and coordinating authority, while responsibility for technical and administra-
tive management of most urban services, including drainage network
maintenance, garbage collection, and service vehicle maintenance, is to be
ensured by the CPPEs.
35.      The goal of this reform was to bring administrative management into
closer contact with the constituency, and to allow the latter to participate
more actively in actual management and decision making. This shift of respon-
sibilities has boosted the yields of tax colleotion, especially of the
Regional Development Tax, a head tax established in 1980. In most other
spheres, the decentralization scheme only accentuated pre-existing constraints
to effective service delivery, namely lack of qualified manpower and essential
equipment. As a consequence of the spreading of resources and of the chronic
shortage of foreign exchange to import critically needed materials and
supplies, the CPPEs have not been able to spend more than 15 percent to
40 percent of their annual capita:L budgets. These problems have been
compounded by administratively rigid, though in principle reasonable,
budgeting procedures and regulations. As a result, the CPPEs have accumulated
rapidly increasing budgetary surpllLuses, equivalent in 1982 to their entire
recurrent income. In this context, RAC has emerged as the most capable local
administrative body, despite its :Limited operational responsibilities.
Benefiting from its prior experience with city-wide operation of urban
services, it has continued to ensure city-wide maintenance of drainage
networks and to participate actively in the operation of garbage collection.
36.      While the Government has no intention of reconsidering the decentral-
ization scheme, it has become increasingly aware of its drawbacks for the
management of technical services. It has recognized the need to search for
new and more realistic solutions which, without disrupting the existing insti-
tutional context, would lead to better technical and financial management and



- 1 1 -
performance by both RAC and the CPPEs. In particular, it has decided, in
connection with the proposed project, to pool various technical services at
the RAC level, and to amend the regional and local financial management
procedures so as to assure the financial viability of these new structures.
Bank Lending Program and Other Donors
37.      Two IDA projects have provided assistance to the Conakry urban sec-
tor. The First Water and Sanitation project (870-GUI, FY79, US$12.5 million),
financed in association with the African Development Bank, helped to relieve
immediate water supply shortages and to carry out the first stage of a
priority drainage reconstruction and extension program in Conakry. The First
Power project (1085-GUI, FY80, US$32.5 million) is financing part of a large
power network rehabilitation program in cooperation with the French Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and the German Kreditanstalt fUr
Wiederaufbau (KfW).
38.      Other projects are providing indirect assistance to the sector:
the Industrial Rehabilitation and Promotion project (1234-GUI, FY82,
SDR 16.6 million), financed in association with various other donors, includes
funding for the rehabilitation of construction material industries, such as a
quarry and a floor tile factory located near Conakry; the Conakry Port project
(1392-GUI, FY83, SDR 12.1 million) provides funding for major port
rehabilitation works; and the Third Highway project (FY84), appraised in
January 1983, will participate in the financing of the reconstruction of the
Conakry-Mamou Road, Conakry's sole link to the country's agricultural
hinterland.
39.      The United Nations' agencies UNCHS and UNCDF are currently carrying
out an urban development project. This project was initially set up as a
pilot for the present IDA project, but due to the high standard of housing
eventually provided, was deemed inappropriate for expansion through a Bank
project. The European Economic Community (EEC) is considering the possible
financing of an urban development project amounting to an estimated
US$5.8 million equivalent. This project which has been prepared in close
collaboration with the Association would be targeted primarily at urban
development planning in various major secondary cities, and would be comple-
mentary to the proposed IDA financed project. The German Association for
Technical Assistance (GTZ) is contemplating an urban transport project
consisting essentially of the provision of van-buses for passenger transport
and technical assistance to driver cooperatives.
Project Rationale
40.      Guinea's cities, in particular Conakry, will play a pivotal role in
the country's overall economic development. Even if efforts to spur
development in rural areas meet with success in the years ahead, the impact on
the present migration trends will remain marginal with no significant slow-
down of urban growth likely to occur over the short- and medium-term.



- 12 -
Moreover, the beginning of economic liberalization is likely to enhance the
city's appeal and prompt an even faster growth rate in the years ahead.
Therefore, reversing the steady, city-wide decline in living and operating
conditions in Conakry, and commencing to create the basic conditions for
future economic expansion, have become of utmost urgency.
41.      Sustained success in this endeavor will largely depend on the Govern-
ment's ability to identify and implement a consistent and comprehensive devel-
opment strategy for the city as a whole. Estatlishing conditions for adequate
functioning of urban services represents a fundamental first step in such a
strategy. Improving management efficiency in municipal services requires
action both to increase immediate technical capacity and to improve the finan-
cial structures supporting sustained long-run service operation. Identifying
directions for future urban growth is a complementary element in such a
strategy. Establishing a consistent set of long-term objectives based on a
realistic assessment of available economic and human resources is a
prerequisite for securing the conditions of the city's adequate functioning
in the long-run.
42.      The proposed project will assist the Government in its attempts to
implement the first steps of such a strategy. Designed in line with the Bank
Group's overall country assistance strategy in Guinea, it reflects the concern
that in the initial stages of sectoral dialogue, strengthening the operating
capacity of urban management institutions in Conakry should be given priority
in order to create the absorptive capacity for future projects.  At the
present time, an urban project involving other priority areas such as housing,
urban transport or road infrastructure, is deemed premature given the weak
institutional capacity. Thus the project's main thrust is to lay the
essential groundwork for future more ext;ensive involvement, either by IDA or
other donors.
43.      At the moment, IDA is the only donor in a position to support these
first steps towards improving the policy and technical arrangements for making
future investment in Conakry more feasible. Guinea's dialogue with the
international donor community is still in an early stage, but EEC and other
donors have given a firm indication that they would be willing to support
urban investments in Guinea in conjunction with IDA.  This project will be the
first effort by any agency to assess the multiple problems in the urban sector
and to propose a strategy for dealing with it. The proposed project will give
key Guinean administrators and technicians their first experience with viable
service delivery operations and with the process of practical urban
development planning, and will leave them in a position to run these
activities and identify those specific external inputs which they may continue
to need.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.      The proposed project, which represents the Bank's first direct inter-
vention in Guinea's urban sector, was appraised in April/May 1983. Prepara-
tory studies were carried out in 1981/82 under joint financing by UNDP and the
Government, the latter drawing on an initial advance of US$250,000 from the
Project Preparation Facility. A supplemental advance of US$200,000 provided
additional funding for mapping works, foreign training for project staff, and
technical assistance for pre-implementation activities.
45.      Negotiations for the proposed credit were held in Washington, DC,
on March 12 and 13, 1984. The Guinean Delegation was led by Y.E. El-Hadj
Moussa Diakite, Minister of Construction, Housing, Urban Planning, and
Domain. A staff appraisal report outlined "Conakry Urban Development Project"
(No. 4777-GUI) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Supplementary Project Data are in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
46.      The primary objectives of the proposed project are:
(a)  to strengthen the ability of Central and Local Government
institutions to proficiently plan, coordinate, and control urban
growth and development in the Greater Conakry area;
(b) to establish the basic mechanisms for adequate funding of urban
service operations from local revenues; and
(c) to improve the management of city-wide garbage collection and
drainage maintenance operations.
47.      To achieve these objectives the project will comprise the following
three components:
(a)  Urban Development Planning.  The project will provide support in form
of technical assistance (100 man-months), foreign and local training,
studies, mapping works, provision of essential equipment and funding
of operating expenses, to MCHUD and RAC. In particular the project
will provide funding to (i) assist MCHUD to set up within its
Directorate of Urban Planning, an Urban Planning Unit for the Greater
Conakry area responsible, in particular, for the preparation of a
preliminary land use plan and, in connection with the preparation of
the next Five-Year Development Plan, the identification of short- and
medium-term investment programs; (ii) support MCHUD and RAC in
expanding the operational capacity of their respective topographical
services to enable them to carry out a three-year work program to
reestablish area-wide basic topographical networks, and to resurvey
and remap inadequately recorded land subdivisions; and (iii) provide
local and foreign training in urban planning to M4CHUD staff and
undertake a feasibility study for the creation of a land development
agency for the Greater Conakry area.



- 14 -
(b)  Urban Service Management.  The project will provide support in the
form of technical assistance (175 man-months), foreign and local
training, studies, provision of essential equipment and funding of
operating expenses to assist RAC in reorganizing city-wide service
drainage network maintenance, garbage collection and vehicle
maintenance. In particular, the project will provide funding to
(i) create a Technical Coordination Unit attached to the Governor's
office and responsible for overseeing overall technical management of
RAC departments, improvin,g effectiveness of internal coordination,
and advising the CPPEs in technical matters; (ii) develop the
operational capacity of the existing Drainage Maintenance Unit
through the provision of technical assistance and supply of essential
equipment and materials to enable it to carry out an extensive four-
year work program of repair or reconstruction of Conakry's existing
45 km drainage network, and to direct the implementation of the
drainage infrastructure works component included in this project;
(iii) improve the overall functioning of the garbage collection
service by reorganizing management structures for this service
currently assured by the l'PPEs, and increase its delivery capacity
through acquisition of about 15 container trucks and 90 garbage con-
tainers; (iv) upgrade the existing but currently non-operational
regional vehicle maintenance yard through provision of technical
assistance, tools, maintenance and repair equipment and supply of
critical spare parts, to permit improved routine maintenance on
service vehicles; (v) ass-ist RAC and CPPEs in establishing a medium-
term urban management action plan, intiended to improve and secure
delivery of urban services in the long run, to increase local
resource mobilization and to ensure the sound financial state of both
RAC and the CPPEs in the years beyond project completion; and
(vi) provide local and foreign training in drainage maintenance,
garbage collection management, and vehicle maintenance for RAC and
CPPE staff.
(c)  Drainage Infrastructure Works.  This component will include the
construction of about 3.2 kms of roads-ide stormwater drainage
channels in two high dens'ity downtown areas subject to frequent road
blocks and traffic difficulties during the rainy season.
48.      Total project costs (net of taxes and duties from which the project
would be exempted) are estimated atI US$16.4 milLion equivalent of which
US$12.1 million (74 percent of total project cost) are foreign exchange
costs. The local cost component is GSY 100.0 m-Lllion, (US$4.3 million).
Estimated costs are based on July 1983 prices. Provisions for contingencies
are included and amount to US$2.1 million (fore-Lgn exchange component) and
GSY 32.0 million (local currency component), representing 21.2 percent of
total project costs. Physical conltingencies of 15 percent have been applied
to civil works, and of 10 percent to all other items except technical
assistance training and operating expenses. International price contingencies
were applied as follows: 3.5 percent for 1984, 8 percent for 1985 and
9 percent for subsequent years. Local inflation was estimated constant at



- 15 -
11 percent. Consulting services were estimated in 1983 prices at US$i1,500
plus GSY 20,000 per month on average, ircluding housing, transportation and
other reimbursable costs. Fellowships for foreign training were, consistent
with the recent experience of other international and bilateral agencies,
estimated at an average US$1,600 per month.
49.      The proposed IDA credit of US$10.7 million will finance 65 percent of
the total project cost and 88 percent of its foreign exchange cost, estimated
at US$12.1 million. The Government contribution which has been estimated at
GSY 100.0 million (US$4.3 million) in local currency and US$1.4 million in
foreign exchange will finance 100 percent of the local currency costs and
12 percent of the total foreign exchange costs, the latter consisting
essentially of funding made available to RAC--against the payment of the local
currency equivalent--for financing of the foreign exchange share in operating
expenses of services supported by the project (para. 51),
Urban Service Operations and Medium-Term Action Plan
50.      To secure adequate operating conditions for project-supported RAC
services, (drainage maintenance, garbage collection and vehicle maintenance
services), the Government has agreed to take a series of measures regarding
financial and technical management procedures in both RAC and the CPPEs. In
this respect, it will, as a condition of Credit effectiveness, take
appropriate legal measures to ensure the participation of the three Conakry
Municipalities (CPPEs) in the funding of RAC service operations through their
respective capital budgets and on the basis of an agreed cost-sharing schedule
(sections 3.06 (a) and 6.01 (e) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
According to this schedule which will be reviewed periodically in consultation
with IDA (section 3.06 (b) of draft Development Credit Agreement) the CPPEs will
reimburse 85 percent of the expenses (in both foreign exchange and local
currency) incurred by RAC for the operation of project supported services
(section 3.06 (a) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
51.      Chronic shortage of foreign exchange funding for the import of
critically needed inputs is a major obstacle to the sound operating of urban
services. To overcome these problems, the Government has introduced procedures
under which RAC will be permanently entitled to a minimal annual foreign
exchange facility. The amount of this facility will be fixed annually according
to RAC's budget forecasts under procedures acceptable to IDA and agreed at
negotiations (section 3.02 (b) of draft Development Credit Agreement). Opening
of a RAC foreign exchange account and deposit therein of US$30,000 by the
Government --upon payment by RAC of the local currency equivalent--as a first
installment corresponding to the foreign exchange expenses during the first six
months of project implementation, will be a condition of credit effectiveness
(section 6.01 (c) of draft Development Credit Agreement).  To avoid problems in
launching these new financial management procedures, IDA will participate in the
funding of foreign exchange expenses through the establishment of a parallel
revolving fund account (para. 57) on an annually decreasing basis as follows:
year 1: 75 percent (US$0.2 million), year 2: 50 percent (US$0.3 million),
year 3: 25 percent (US$0.2 million), year 4: 0 percent.
52.      To secure the conditions for adequate renewal of the service vehicle
fleet, the Government has agreed to establish a Regional Equipment Renewal Fund
no later than June 30, 1985. Contribution to this fund will be shared by RAC



- 16 -
and the CPPEs on the same basis as established for the operating costs
(section 3.07 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
53.      The impact of these measures on the financial position of both RAC and
the CPPEs has been assessed and found acceptablea. To improve the overall
delivery of urban services and secure their operational capacity in the long
run, the Government has agreed to prepare a medium-term urban management action
plan aimed at strengthening technical and administrative service management,
increasing local resource mobilization and ensuring the sound financial state of
both RAC and the CPPEs in the years beyond project completion, and to submit
its implementation schedule to IDA for review and discussion no later than
June 30, 1086 (section 3.06 (c) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
54.      Implemented over a period of four and a half years the project will be
executed through the existing instiLtutional franework with the Ministry of
Construction, Housing, Urban Planning and Domain (MCHUD) responsible for overall
project coordination and supervision. Primary responsibility for the execution
of the Urban Development Planning component will rest with MCHUD's Directorate
General of Urban Planning. Executilon of urban planning studies will be ensured
by an Urban Planning Unit created, in conjunction with the proposed project,
within the division of planning studies of the Directorate General of Urban
Planning (section 3.04 of draft Development Credit Agreement) and staffed with
adequately skilled technical and support personnel (section 3.03 (b) of draft
Development Credit Agreement). Progress in planning works undertaken by the
planning unit will be monitored by an Interministerial Urban Planning Advisory
Group, creation of which has been set as a condition for Credit effectiveness
(sections 3.04 (b) and 6.01 (d) of draft Develoument Credit Agreement).
Rehabilitation of topographical networks and resurveying and remapping of
inappropriately recorded land subdivisions will be carried out by MCHUD's
Directorate General of Topography and RAC's Departments of Topography and Urban
Planning on the basis of annual work programs diLscussed with and reviewed by IDA
(section 3.05 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
55.      Overall responsibility for the execution of the urban service
management and the drainage infrastructure works components will rest with RAC
within which project coordination and supervision will be ensured by a
Technical Coordination Unit created at the leveL of the Governor's office
(section 3.04 (a) of draft Development Credit Agreement). The existing
Drainage Maintenance Unit will be responsible for the management of the
drainage infrastructure works component and the implementation of maintenance
and repair works executed on the basis of annuaL work programs dliscussed with
and reviewed by IDA (section 3.05 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Garbage collection and vehicle maintenance will be ensured by the respective
existing services which will be reorganized and strengthened through
appointment of adequately skilled Guinean staff (section 3.03 (b) of draft
Development Credit Agreement).



- 17 -
Procurement and Disbursements
56.      Procurement of equipment, tools, vehicles, miscellaneous supplies and
construction works under the project will total US$10.8 million (including
contingencies) of which US$4.9 million will be done through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, with the remainder following Local
Competitive Bidding (LOB) (US$2.0 million), Local Shopping (US$2.8 million)
and Force Account (US$0.9 million) procedures (see table below). All
procurement will be in accordance with IDA guidelines (schedule 3 of draft
Development Credit Agreement).  Local procedures are satisfactory .  Eligible
domestic bidders will be given a preference of 7.5 percent. Technical
assistance and consulting services will be procured individually or through
reputable firms in accordance with IDA guidelines. All contracts of over
US$100,000 will be submitted to IDA for review prior to award. Remaining
contracts will be subject to random review by IDA after contract award.
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method                Total
ICB         LCB        Other        N.A.      Cost
-     =      -    (UU$ million)
Project Element
Tecbmical Assistance                                   4.6 (3.7)             4.6 ( 3.7)
Stuies/Traixnig                                        0.8 (0.6)    0.2      1.0 ( 0.6)
Equipnent, tools, vehicles   2.0 (2.0)                 0.8 (0.6)             2.8 ( 2.6)
Miscellaneous supplies       0.6 (0.3)                 2.0 (0.5)             2.6 ( 0.8)
Drainage infrastructure works    2.3 (1.7)                                   2.3 (1.7)
Drainage repair works                     1.3 (0.5)    0.9 (0.4)    0.2      2.4 (0.9)
Other constructimn works                  0.7 (0.4)                          0.7 ( 0.4)
Total                     4.9 (4.0)    2.0 (0.9)    9.1 (5.8)    0.4    16.4 (10.7)
N.A. = Not Applicable
(Parentheses represent the amount to be finced by IDA.)
Construction works which are too small to interest foreign bidders, will
whenever possible, be awarded through LCB. However, since in Guinea the
private construction industry sector is still very small and of limited
capacity, execution of part of the work program by force account will be
necessary.
57.      Disbursements will be made on the following basis:  100 percent
of total foreign expenditures for civil works; 100 percent of total foreign
expenditures for MCHUD equipment and project operating costs; 100 percent



- 18 -
of total foreign expenditure for RAC equipment; and 100 percent; of total
foreign expenditures for technical assistance, training and cornsultant
services.  RAC operating costs will be disbursed on an annually decreasing
basis (para. 51). All disbursements for goods and services procured under ICB
and LOB procedures will be fully documented. Disbursements for local
expenditures for work done by force account, arLd MCHUD and RAC operating costs
will be made against certified statements of expenditure. At Credit
effectiveness, the PPF advance will be refinanced. Prior to Credit
effectiveness, special foreign exchange revolving fund accounts will be opened
for MCHUD and RAC with an initial advance of US$30,000 and US$100,000
respectively from the Credit and subsequently replenished (section 6.01 (a) of
draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government will also open local
currency revolving accounts for MCHUD and RAC aLnd to deposit prior to Credit
effectiveness, GSY 0.5 million and GSY 1.5 million respectively (section
6.01 (b) of draft Development Credit Agreement). Details of the operation of
these accounts including suitable reporting procedures and controls have been
agreed (schedule 4 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
58.      The project's ultimate benefits--increased control ovier urban growth,
and improved overall operating conditions of the city as a whole--are not
quantifiable. Immediate benefits in the areas of drainage network con-
struction and maintenance, solid waste collection and vehicle maintenance,
though quantifiable in principle, do not, however, provide a meaningful basis
for such calculations in Guinea's context of persistent economic stringencies,
and, in particular, of acute and permanent shortage of foreign exchange.
Thus, although substantial improvements are expected in the overall efficiency
of the Conakry economy through improved transport and health conditions, the
estimation of an economic rate of return is not practical.
59.      The goal of strengthening the government institutions responsible for
urban planning will markedly reduce ill-organized land use and thereby reduce
losses in productivity arising from disorderly spatial expansion, excessive
transport distances, and operational constraints for public services and
utilities. More intensive coordination between authorities in the area of
investment planning and decisions will generate a significant improvement in
the management of scarce foreign and local human and financial resources.
Reinforced control over conditions of land development will help to halt the
further decline of living conditions in a large number of areas and allow more
efficient planning for future growioth.
60.      Strengthening of urban service management will be a key element in
restoring satisfactory functioning of the city as a whole and generate exten-
sive benefits both social and economic. Intensified drainage maintenance and
construction of new drainage infrastructure will significantly contribute to
satisfactory transport conditions throughout the year, in both high density
residential and economically important downtown areas, and prevent further
loss and untimely depreciation of valuable calital assets including not only
the drainage system itself but the accompanying road network. Reorganizing
the garbage collection services and renewing their equipment will allow a
doubling in volume of daily collected waste and the extension of collection
service into most areas currently accessible to motor vehicles. Reducing
indiscriminate waste accumulation in streets and open spaces will



- 19 -
significantly contribute to improved overall performance of the drainage
network, and help to improve city-wide environmental health conditions.
Implementing efficient permanent vehicle and equipment maintenance will be a
key factor in securing adequate functioning of all urban services. Daily
availability of vehicles will, on the basis of project activities, be
increased by a factor of three, and thus generate an important gain in service
productivity.
61.      Most importantly, the project will significantly reduce the waste of
local resources in the form of unused local tax receipts which have hitherto
lain idle due to the unavailability of needed matching foreign exchange
resources and key technical know-how.
62.      The potential risk that entrusting the responsibility for project
management to existing institutions might affect the efficiency of
implementation, is mitigated by the use of technical assistance and on-the-job
training for Guinean staff. The risk inherent in any project designed to
promote institutional development, that the departure of technical assistance
personnel could weaken the project agency and compromise future project
benefits, is offset by the keen interest in the urban sector shown by other
international and bilateral donors and thus the strong likelihood of
continuing technical assistance and training programs in the years ahead. Due
to the novelty of the project funding approach, RAC, the main implementation
agency, could be exposed to cashflow shortfalls. This risk is mitigated by
the availability of substantial surpluses in the CPPE budgets throughout the
project period, as well as by the Government's strong commitment to the
proposed reforms for urban service management.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Revolutionary
People's Republic of Guinea and the Association, and the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
64.      Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement are referred
to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of
effectiveness are: (a) establishment of special foreign exchange account for
the use of the foreign exchange facility and deposit of US$30,000 upon payment
by RAC of the local currency equivalent; (b) establishment of special foreign
exchange project accounts for NCHUD and RAC, and of local currency revolving
funds for MCHUD and RAC, including the deposit of GSY 0.5 million into the MCHUD
fund and 1.5 million into the RAC fund; (c) creation of an Interministerial
Urban Planning Advisory Group; and (d) issuance of legal amendments to the
regional and local financial management procedures to establish a cost-sharing
mechanism between RAC and the CPPEs for urban service operations.
65.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit will comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
April 1984



21-                                                           ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
T A B L E  3A
GL'INEA                    SOCIAL- INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUINEA                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (UEIGHTED AVERAGES) Is
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATF.) lb
lb          lb  REC-STlb              LOW INCOME               MIDULF INCOME
1960-       1970-  EST-NATr,-         AFRICA S. OF SAHARA       AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
ARTA (TMWAI  SQ. A)
TOTAL                                  245.9       245.9        '45.9
AGRICULTURAL                           44.0         45.7         45.7
CGP PER CAPITA (US$)                      100.0       140.0        30L.0                254.6                      1147.9
IICY COXNSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         17.0         91.0         83.0                 79.8                       724.2
POPFLATION MAD VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    3067.0         4069.0       5577.0/c
URBAN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)           9.9         13.9         10                   15.5                        28.5
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                  t.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                   29.8
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                 2155
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                          12.5         16.6         22.1                 29.'                        56.5
PER SQ. EK. AGRI. LAND               69.7         89.0        118.7                94.1                       131.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YPS                            42.0         42.5         43.9                45.0                        45.9
15-64 YRS                            55.1         54.7         53.1                52.1                        51.2
65 AND ABOVE                          2.8          2.8          2.9                 2.9                         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (7)
TOTAL                                 2.2          2.8          2.9/c               2.8                         2.8
URBAN                                 8.1          6.2          6.0                  6.2                         5.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           46.9         46.9         47.5                47.9                        47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           30.3         24.2         22.4                 19.2                       15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.0          3.0          3.1                  3.2                        3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (2 OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..           ..           ..
POOD AltD NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                          97.0        101.0         86.0                87.8                        95.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)         92.0         86.0         77.0*               88.0                        97.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             46.0         42.0         38.0                51.2                        56.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            8.0          7.0          7.0/d              18.1                        17.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            49.6         43.3         36.4                25.7                        23.6
BLTI
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)             ..          ..         42.8                47.4                        51.9
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         207.8        186.5        162.8               126.5                       117.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (2POP)
TOTAL                                   ..          ..         10.01e,f             24.7                       25.4
URBAN                                  ..           ..         44.07.ef            56.8                        70.5
RURAL                                   ..          ..          2.5/e,f            18.3                        12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..        13.0           ..                28.1
URBAN                                  ..         70.0           ..                65.7
RURAL                                  ..          2.0           . .               21.9
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            26900.0      32520.0      16630.0/d           27420.6                     12181.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              3260.0       2030.0       2490.0/d            3456.2                      2292.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              1120.0        610.0        630.O/S            1183.2                      1075.4
URBAN                               210.0        220.0        390. 0/g            380.6                       402.3
RURAL                              2200.0        880.0        730.0/g            3177.5                      3926.7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         16.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
UR8AN                                   ..          ..
RURAL                                   ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  * -                      5.0/f
URBAN                                  ..           .....
RURAL                                   ..          ..
- ----- ------  ----- - ----- --- -- ------ ------ ----- ------  ----- -- ---   --- - ----------____ __-- -------------- ----------- -  _  __  _ 



-22 --                                                         ANNEX I
PFage 2 bf.
T7A B L E  3A
Gl'ISFA                  - SOCIAL. INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUINEA                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT               LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCQRE
1960-       1970-b  ESTIMATE-         AFRICA S. OF SAHARA       AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUISTED ENROLL"T IT RATIOS
P'IIMARY:   TCoAL.                   3C.0         33.0          33.0                63.9                        97.2
MALL                     44.0         45.0          44.0                73.6                       103.1
FEMALf                    16.0        21.0          22.0                51.6                        88.5
'i 1CONDARY: TOTAL                    2.0         13.0         16.0                 12.5                        17.2
MALE                       3.0        21.0         23.0                 16.7                        23.5
FEMALE                     0.4          5.0          9.0                 8.1                        14.2
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECONA..')             21.7         3.2           2.7                 7.3                         5.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              66.0         44.0         36.0                 46.4                        42.9
SECONDARY                            26.0         23.0         24.0/f               25.1                        23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z)                  7.0         9.0/h       20.0                 36.5                        37.1
CONSUWET ION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              1.8         2.4          ..                   3.3                        18.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP           12.7         22.4          22.3                45.3                        97.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                .            ..           1.1                 2.2                        18.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST" ) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                 0.2         1.2          3.8                  4.7                        18.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          .            .,            ,                  1.0                         0.6
lABOg FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            1522.0       1940.0       2456.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     40.4         40.3         40.7                 34.5                        36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                88.0         85.0         82.0                 76.9                        56.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    6.0          8.0         11.0                  9.8                        17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                49.6         47.7         44.1                 40.9                        37.0
MALE                                 59.4         57.4         54.0                 53.0                        47.1
FEMALE                               39.9         38.1         34.8                 28.9                        27.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9           1.0         1.1                  1.2                         1.3
INCQEE DISTBlIUITION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5  OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..          ..
HIGHEST-20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..          ..
LOWEST 20% OF HOLSEHOLDS
LOWFST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..           ..                 165.9                       534.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..           .,                  87.4                       255.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
ITRBAN                                ' '          '           70.0/f              100.8                       491.5
RURAL                                  ..          .,           ..                  64.6                       188.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUtTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                  . *         '                                39.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..           ..                  69.0
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weightet arithmetic means.  Covergge of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for -Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  Recent Government estimates from Administration census indicate a resident population (excluding non-Guineans) of
4.53 mill. in 1977 and population growth rate of 2.7% p.a.; /d 1977; /e WHO report May, 1980 quotes total access of
11-12%.  However, this does not match reported service in urban and rural areas; If 1978; /g 1976; /h 1965.
a   Present Bank estimates indicate higher ratio of supply close to requirement, the Bank estiates point to a better
standard and there is no evidence of a sharp deterioration in nutritional standards.
May 1983



-23-                                                                                     ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
Not es   ttoo             roe          lo:r:sruljuddesuos1io                                          torloti,   tsuIaie"CtaIthoayor-                                             ..r.tl,oly
roepaaibr boss           rolro        o,dciuifo:id                  odoo       No    op dtfur-rr  bo-r-          orieriltt,               .t   dr   c,certrot   sfls
oert             1,1 Ihsoreref..rtlodooor   orrud.ttrrl     -rsrir,.t--t%l   ~dii)  rr -ors                       -h- har>bearro-le  .I-yg.,                                            h
group has d.atafor that  -di--or   3iCo-  rh  roree               ourea                                                                                             Ifgsem   otr    eru'  o   ofaityo   aa   ui ttc'>,reo
rserulsedtoretorlor uoarsgeroforotudiceroh. o- onotir.-hs  o rag- se  oodlp.esefpelicopaIog... oluofo                       lodco c-ootog oeo
Totl     fotol  odar  at a l,aspriaoog 1usld arra ard iloioaaued          l9td.                    phsliusqoilid   ru              sbdiri srtooi a            etortp isotl,
IN,  sod 195d                                                                                       ousoprtrlgPro- Popularlotd"ddb   ate   5potco
sgrt' itarul - itrlset   tf sgrrru Icc cai ore  uss  ersporasily or  rc  ater,J issale  -sd irol  gadsr  Iore                     seitit coret,pa         tr   ers 
Pus erpt, psture, corer sd   er   d          _do o    toits failso   iNn.                      Iolilgaurlloie
lilt7ad l    doca                                                                                     --piato  pe-   od  e   ed-os,  ro, trorl-Ppuut-    ttl
Npf PIP EAPIT  ('11  -CP prroIaetouea5cortrrlstpur,oaIlul ob-irau,rtusgtr I udrdHa                                                                         s    _rtelir Ifosyrral bod
rel: 'te    psoeotorsoceetis   ord iodArE:  INC-h  huii                                          rablletlooueolte             tptl   e  ethtuecspraesl   cfe
-ssr are out ituluded.  dose  hospitals, Ah-ser, OsIode hearth bad
I,NERGI CI)NsmV'flNt Pit ECA?ml    oco   Pprorcs~touof  _uteilcd hles  _eotees ou  Po sc Op.Il  scaffed by a physiutao  lhst by a oediral
-rd                    ''d-'>il-    eolE                                                                                             oreisr   h~ Cedd u rpa ir -pto.lib   ,-d
dli - -   ores                ;srahd -;                                                                                                          e  a 
--   I  15<,  oodlh~~~~~~,                                           ooofiouseh"d` oie,oo us...r.oi-.                      e-...drra
j5pplt lot Propeculooo                                                              cesola   bllo  d  utOtsof g PI-o  rdrdol  si   cosii                  uatr
PopuictioEsoce iiC-Coerorpcpiceooprujreloo   orghose  oc   dE            crd eoir -ues  eels  areoorld.cocdgroalryeoIb  orlde   O
coral poprsttes hadratd  so ice ther corleers usd irt ilitytee touseld  Cur sar toe l,eOh-ppe
rarer.  seo'rrrgoopeeaeoros coreersuCerprarsscurprlocyrrrrr  droeuooooeheeofprruooe poeeooe-resai, usac, uodeeraiureeagesorhs
psars.o  The- puuettsfoSfrrIts  re  ue_hurcie CIel                                                   s            Ifupe    pae.-a,
stutuessoouosou.TisI fhosiul  airr  fertEC tparoesrurasld  --oCimos htlo
a,,oN  geerrorr-        uesoarrrs itsrPee rrI,Ipy.bihrarssl            77ar                          rcrlrscelguurrrsrCerapeuoaeo   rsecr
yearotosrecs:oatrs ed  orECtos  fsepurus    irurr                                                      rse  sehosi-lds popuaioss; terueep irrldrscidea                     geda h-IC
stIrsof 51c pepCatsu  is te pro  Slid  ocd h-e  troeeo 1eclto  ofautltajse    o    iteetiu so   rsseoe Ou;  o
dcritpr  irseepiocoosrrCeosl,lri.gI   aa,I..IidP                    fb ,                    Aeuoscril-rsAoh   Etery          CdatCdulliRtee-loetEape -rsedlC   perrlu-
tutor uroul   ake, 1171,   Id tis dat,                                                         eplsotilOio-C  toa Cd prays of rago  coerpoderer_rs    r
Pupufecie    IerUrscooe   I-orort -hi  ilEOCbr-o IC-I y pafrer serktglget it                       A.lduiEoeuucllco, R., tie   rute   rpsssit  peh    ssed
pupolaclto   1965, liii, toO 1991 data.                                         Pep~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,-  lC-teYrrhre rs lo -I   alluep   -d sfrood er-Ctotl, sc ldrot d ecle  r
Poes0stt i- Crs5  oe -I-erred   -  tota  - asoal rroatb prejoss of totlal   -                         peisoro elld serodor   lose        ir  hy suohordeo  tohes t.           te.or
pourl potaoo    fu           Tei-C   19k-C, usd esp-po                                              roaIfp-iodeog Cerels.                           ~  pr..
populatloEsfur 1990-h, fIEI-di, u  19Ch.Y.u-esg   Ie arura  adltpuoatiuo -g,I                                                                     5  eas  sdo-
Crode Birth lose I poe rtoosoodC - eucual lose hi-tot see - tiroutatd ofl  arebsEd-I  b-,  h,   fihi1 ahr.1.'e
poor pupl.ot-ot; ChapD,  lhC,  rc  ihh. ldae  yerEtNittPCllti.                                                        h       ,_.a.10  p,I
pol rlos; 19l61, 1970,btd 199  d...st..ogOut..osOe   osos    uloo   oeOtos,here   o
leoso Ilpsudocoor ha teAserageeuchre  f duag tees a bau sIlltear is  tlssuryrbpcldu
of ere-oroeele   re   e  le   futua    aOppato                                               ocrtcs      dhultshed Crcr       ....rsrog..,I
P.beog ise.                                                                                        Cl9e6s0to 1970usrrtp-mcoo1-981etorufereYdr-tr
alloaced   emofe.eu-ghep                                   -e.ap      orcCtltl  erchercdpid-ottl    hot  te  otag
IlgX   iscc  a'cocc6,1607,ab   9-1.1pdIutoeg                                                                          ol   aoc    oeosoeppr,dl  e   uapeuoa
otdooefpoodprcdActeotroefapecolCsti~rba,-CIC   -cooipccftIp guor  oc'r AeaoesroeecrLerlto, Cosouoee
Pu"    crosta    ftgr   hieoe                    otdr-cEuh raEleOt hfob.a                              euot sole date0  rhe.o -ue  btrOadtu  udjaussable so drle-dOsdc-resor
Crdeto                                                                                            EgihytChe,t ..ar  POhePEtI-D t   d
Percoprtusorrlsef~19C'loroup    dca9  of reooa rosNtl-Coporr   rot                              Ioaeao  Poe    tososlCooloeoclcprNs,Ooolgr
CrdepTet Rsarlhetple   opiedeele(ppeodortideath           Ope     e h-adfror lust                    P"p" eoco Iae.Pfriis  tor curIous uoereeuss ar.pt- out
eupoe.ti-;udh96ge 19o0 strk S9Iaee sopusorldine   or,tet                                              opehm119g   91odlh   cs
qo -rttes  se  Ro foo p- oot- lg, sd lsse  gorf detos                                            osE  Ipet lh- PeiaC           t Che-f-u  us  rdroag   ofru al tohu  foce
heqolemesa    odee e-rOsuted he PAPhoed __c phpiograia osdsfa  ourolaglcuor  IIorest lh- ahod  Posts Ic fe- g  forerap    rasogsdi
aurliotopurdt- health outrdrry, aooiogssro  reuporseur9, hod9  tsltdt                                                         p.bo tpausaoofttllhc  or;160i9 od  itA  o
agol tops itoe  o   lrplro,sdalao   I   eso   u   ut                                                  oetp(o c)-LhrfersO  mou-og, uf sou  o,  eua es
soil hoPeta     lcr   160hf  1C  sod lhhp  dofa, -~_    -e fd .i"                                       abld rCteCuE,  ; ustreo    aso I_rEtru  toter  aisho   Puruc%196
Per capta toppe of pcreuoIrs   e   a)-Poetoroalprtet                                                OlP-e ucd     e   i91  defa. i        d 
set esl   lfodprdp                etspi      aflodIlete   us shoore-.                              PetluOoht  eruo)    turl   .uir. ro  frooo-orrpott                              o
hoqutresesos for ~ allcutttls otahrshd A  USDA sl eoodcPe           ssouTV co tp r                                tes ace_oprd ustalsleadfsksChrfros
aiurusf   P     reoirclpa-ofpoeopsddieae_ieluaTodpr...rdsrd_oos IaeoscopoesltPllutsssaral                                                                                        o
pus  poot,ofolu   i  reruoodh  acisC  prteus,                        Tcs                             ohrg-1lips  sod 1991 data   Phs  oehor.r  i' p-trptu-
studo.      oa            - lse  thec crtFs  faae  rtta   ottosd1  trace                                rot Ettt       -drgog y-sosrrtrow   teppa_er  uo    og TreVred
ofauhoal puteOser perooaofotbColdsc-ordaPiOi- fottistTVrfosstuoiour-c
ThId  WrldPoo  loroe; CleCAI,197  so   lhI  ora                                   tusocr spesetu  lirto- htl  ofCopCaroo  so.e O.oo.h.sodoletr
dote.. a                                                                                     C...g.eE                                   ....CThCAPCCP'N"'
fhilCre   CilCotb             a     _speheaudl...   suuldeot   peoru           d is                   euosgoPiosorsrht-roholod)gcoddpohte-
at hrth;196. 090 ou  OhO dua,;soul he tttorreo. ~d,todlbrulorlorolc
Culaur forralfp  laIr   pee tiosuodi    doeuo deP    rool  ofiofurerr-r00                   f            1,,rt   dlseio5e  huor  yercooLoe1<5rruprl-oet  o   ua 
pesodof age pe       e Iosodlce - birresi16, 171ad91 dit,asouehottpleoe  oole  ta  ioreIo                                                                    dhEooirba  soeod
duhr-     Ppaol (tta,  sa1 ad65al,ot   r                          19scahi  ares dt safe             o-fosdh--
Y.ltr o-irsbleas plruusagedo..ctrseystto    p                     poais   osoprosl10c  ofptEePeoootr-p.d   deb--ar boo0 .,is d                                  edPocys  ua
oraoeooCcotuoetrstlrtrorcehsgote                                                                     ooarolscso    olllers    ilegoreaes
frmahis'a;5   utded   tblgoel  rostoiasrssoaso                                                       tti-aaed   -esetPleoa soosgAol P-IIIloory t- os  Bosee proco I - rh
disposal at prrooregot of  brtrresprrric   popolertors   gorrora.i.C...
Rsep....    .  .rod  rho  oul lro   ued dIpoal,d sitE  or  11e orho  reteo f, oficootead  ota lr   rrco
psirdtos  sd atla b,a i rosceleus -oo ..aaproii



ANNEX I
GUINEA:  REZIE'S SREPORT ANNEX 1
0OLJTI0Nkrf .1,PLWS RERfEIC CF ME
ECFONC,EC INDICAIUES
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUc  IN 192 1/                1nual Rate of Growth (%, eonstant prices)
us $ Min %             1975-77  1977-81  1973-81   1981      1 ,9l-85
Projected
GNP at Market Prices    1550  100            4,59    -0.22     2.16      0.98    2.00
Gross Domstic Invest-   225   14            -6.55      7.09    0.04    10.0       5.00
ment
Gross National           150    5           21.25   -39.77   -4.92    -6.21        --
Savings 2
Curremn Acoint          -&    -5            21.25   -39.77   -492       -7.31     __
Exports of Goods, NFS    477   29           30.41      2.35    15.53     2.66     1.(X)
Inports of Goods, NES   -455  -27          -20.03      3.46    11.44     2.53     -
OUIPUT, LAEOR FORCE AND FROJCTIVITY
Value Added             Labor Force         VA per worker
US$ ?Uin    %         tousands        %               %
Agriculture        710   42.38            222        82.C0     351   51.85
Industry and      383   22,86             271        10.99    1343  198-38
riLning
Services           58    34.75            173         7.02    3445  508.86
'lbtallAverage    1675  10.X00           2466       100.0)     677  100.00
GOVERIM YINAE
Central Goverrment
Billion. Sylis                       % of GDP
1979   1980   19B1   19s2           1979    1930   1951   1982
Current Receipts           9.97   11.09  12.32   15.85         33.02   34.54  34.95  42.32
Current Erpenditure        6.63    7.74   7.21    9.42         21.96   24.11   20.45  25.23
Currenit Surplus           3.34    3.35    5.11    6043        11.06    0.43   14.5C  17.16
Capital Expenditure 4/     8.30    3.77    5.96   5.00         27.49    11.74  16.91  13.35
External Assistance        1.15    0.97    1.80   0.83          3.82    3.01    5.12   2.21
(Net) 5
Central Govenment
Billion Sylis                        % of GDP
1979   19e)   1981   1982           1979    1w0   1951   19
Current Receipts           9.73   10.44  11.52   15.35         32.22   32.52  32.68  40.98
Curent ExjEnditure         6.44    7.19   7.04   9.09          21.33   22.39  19.97  24.27
Current Surplus            3.29    3.25   4.48   6.26          10.90   10.12  12.71   16.71
Capital ExTenriture 4/     8.20    3.70   5.73   4.34          27.16    11.52  16.25  11.58
Exteneal Assistaxxe        1.15    0.97    1.80   0.83          3.82    3.01    5.12  2.21
(Net) 5/
IONEY, C(EIIT AND PRICES
Billion Sylis
Dec.1979 Dec.19ge   Dec.1981  Dec.1982
M&zoney and quasi-oney                      8.90      12.97    17.17    16.33
Bnk Credit to Public Sector                 8.61      18.50    22.74    19.55
Bnk Credit to Private Sector                0.76       1.21     1.02      0.59
Percentages
1979     198)      1981     1982
Money and quasi-money as                     29.47    40.39    48.71      41 .75
% of GDP
General Price Index (1951=100)               85.50    91.90    100.00   104.43
6/
Annual % Changes in:
Bank Credit to Public Sector               -25.60    114.90    22.90   -15.03
Bank Credit to Private Sector               7.50    60.30   -16.00   -62.16



-25 -                                      ANNEX I
Pa7e 5 of 5
REVOWIfCNARY PUYLPt'S REEiJHIC OF GUINEM
TRAIE PAFENM!H AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALN4CE OF PAYME2JTS 7/
1979     1980      1931      1932
(US Iillion)
Exports of Goods,ES                       364       497       490       442
Imports of Goods, NFS                    -362      -394      -435     -372
Resource Gap (deficit-)                     2       103        55        70
Interest Payments                          46       -51       -53      -54
Worker's RPsittances                       -7        -8        -9        -9
Other Factor Payments (net)               -35       -74       -35       -83
Net Transfers                               9        17        16        23
Blance   C arTent Aacount                 -81       -13       -76       -53
Direct Foreign Investsent                  28        34        36        34
Net MIP Borrowing
Disbursments, Public Borrowing          126       120       139        83
Amortization, Public Borrowirg         -109      -10B      -109        82
Subtotal, Public Buorroing               17        12        30         6
Private Sector (net)                    -29       -31       -28        -9
Total BrroWing                          -12       -19         2        -3
Capital Grants 8/                          ..
Other Capital (mt)                          3         5        10        11
Other Items n.i.e.                         34       -45       -42       -34
Increase in Reserves 9/                   -28       -38       -70       -47
Gross Reserves (end year)                  66        99        91        95
Net Reserves (ean year) 9/               -205      -239      -236      -333
Fuel and Related Materisls
Imports                                  ..       -99       110       ra
of which: Petroleum                    ..        99       110       na
Exports                                   0         0         0         0
RATES OF EXCiANGE 10/
1975   1976   1977   1978    1979  19B0        1931    1982
Sylis/US $            20.33   21.38   21.14   19.72   19.11  18.97    20.93   22.36
MXCHAIYISE  )EBTS (Average 1975-2)            EAIAL DM, Decacber 31, 1982
US $ min %                                                 US$  1n
B uite                   307.7 6B.4          Public and Private Debt Cuaranteed
Aluimi                    123.3  28.5           ncluding Undisbzsed                  1540.0
Diamonds                    1.7   .4            Oustaming and Disbursed
Agricultural Comodities    12.3  2.7
Totai                     450.1  100.0        D    DERVICE RATIOS FOR 192
IBED/IDA IDIFO (September 30, 1983)           Scheduled Service Payments
LU  mln             Public and Private Debt Guaranteed      31.6
IDE)     DA            Private Debt Non Guaranteed             11.0
Outstanding & Disbursed   47.1  75-5            Tbtal Debt Oustarding and Disbursed     42.6
lindisbursed              0.0  63.0
Oustanding including      47.1  138.5         Actual Service PaymEnts
Undisburted                                   Public and Private Debt Guaranteed      17.5
Private Debt Non Guaranteed            10.3
Total Debt Oatstaing and Disbursed    27.8
1/ Preliminary estimates
2/ Defined as GDI plus   rreant Account %lanne
L/ Ical administratimn not included
4/ Inclding capital transfers to, and investment o behalf of, state enterprises
5/ Disburments less scheduled amortization plus increase in arrears
6/ GDP implicit deflator
7/ Totals may not add dae to rounding
8/ Included in net transfers
9/ Discrepancies due to different exchange rates
tO/ Period geometric average
March 27, 1984



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERAIIONS IN GUINEA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1983)*
Credit                                                                     Amount (less Cancellations)
Number        Year,      Borrower              Purpose                Bank      IDA 1/  Undisbursed 2/
(WS$ million)
Two loans and two Credits have been fully disbursed                    73.5    21.0
849-GUI        1979      Guinea                First Education                   8.0           0.25
870-GUI        1979      Guinea                First Water 'Supply              12.5           5.00
and Sanitation
952-GUI        1980      Guinea                Rice Development                 10.4           5.32
953-GUI        1980      Guinea                Second Highway                   13.0           1.88
iO63-GUI      1981       Guinea                Livestock                         2.1           0.26
Development
1085-GUI       1981      Guinea               Power Project                     28.5           10.09
1234-GUI       1982      Guinea                Industrial Rehabi-               19.0           16.67
litation and
Promotion
1341-GUI 3/   1983       Guinea                Second Education                 1V.0           10.78
1382-GUI 3/   1983       Guinea                Conakry Port                     13.0           12,79
Total                                                   73.5   138.5            63.04
of which has been repaid                              26.4      0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                          47.1   138.5
Total undisbursed                                         0.0   63.04         63.04
1/ Amount IDA6 Credits computed at the rate at the approval dates.
2/  Amount IDA6 Credits computed at the September 30, 1983 rate of $1.05684 = SDR.
3/ Not yet effective
T     The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investmen's (as of Sentember 30, 1983)
Fiscal Year   Obigor                       Type of Business    Loan    Equity    Total
)Soci'ete' Mixte,
)   Aredor Guinee, S.A.          Diamond Mining       13.9               (
1983      )                                                                        (15.3
)  Aredor Holdings                         U                  1.4
Total Gross Commitments                           13.9    1.4         15.3
Less Cancellations,
Terminations, Repayments
and Sales
Total Commitments now held
by IFC                                          13.9    1.4        15.3
Undisbursed Balance                               13.0    0.0        13.0'



- 28 -
ANNEX III
,.age 1 of 2
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
CONAKRY URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  February 1981-April 1983
(b)  Project prepared by:  Gove!rnment and Consultants assisted
by IDA staff
(c)  Appraisal Mission:  April/May 1983
(d)  Negotiations Completed:  PI9arch 13, 1984-
(e)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  September 30, 1984
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
Two PPF advances totalling US$450,000 financed the preparation of
feasibility studies, cartographic works, foreign training of project
staff, and other project start-up activities. The project will be
closely supervised, especially during the first two years of its
implementation.
Section III: Special Conditions
Prior to Credit effectiveness:
(a)  A foreign exchange account will be opened for RAC for the managemnt
of its foreign exchange facility, and upon payment by the latter of
the local currency equivalent, an amount of US$30,000 would be
deposited as a first installment (para. 51).
(b)  (i)   Local currency revolving accounts will be opened for MCHUD
and RAC with an initial deposit of GSY 0.5 million and
GSY 1.5 million respiectively to finance the Government's
contribution to project costs (para. 57); and
(ii) special foreign exchange revolving funds will be established
for MCHUD and RAC (para. 57).
(c)  An Interministerial Urban Planning Advisory Group will be created
(para. 54).
(d)  Legal amendments to the regional and local financial management
procedures will be issued to establish a cost-sharing mechanism
between RAC and the CPPEs for urban service operations (para. 50).



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
During Project Implementation:
(e) A Regional Fund for Equipment Renewal to be supplied through annual
contributions from RAC and the CPPEs, will be established no later
than June 30, 1985 (para. 52).
(f)  A medium-term urban management action plan to improve and ensure
delivery of urban services, to increase local resource mobilization,
and to secure the sound financial state of both RAC and the CPPEs
in the long run, will be prepared, and its implementation schedule
submitted to, and discussed with IDA no later than June 30, 1986
(para. 53).






_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                    ______________________                          IB R D   1202BR D5170 2
s -C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sk
N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~UN
10 ~     ~      .2
fths a'ap has bass p'eps",d by ~ ~   ~             ~           ~            p            35
The ~~~~$shs Bask salad Sashid coca~~~~or rqp!
so the shssa'saash 5' lbs ~ ~ ~ ~    ~            ~           ~            ~           ~          ~           ~         ~          1
aebyas aba's ebshaso4' ho' ha                                                a-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
sw'scasshofmhwsndbysh                                                           G UI   N  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: A~~I
ShhUhs 5k',ssbshd Paste ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~k~f
~~s~~~s,anas ma he0h7pshbha ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       Qu to
used cosba shaslasas spas',~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~I
hs~~~~~ Oh The Ibythi dash asS the~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
sI 5'b sa,aaflss asIat-
ss!Ashsh7 5 r sbtlc es



