Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15765
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(Credit 2635-COB)
June 21, 1996
Country Operations I
Central African and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQI 'VALENTS
Currency Unit             =    CFA franc (CFAF)
The CFA Franc is pegged to the French Franc at the rate of FFI=CFAF100
Fiscal Year   US$1=CFAF
1994         555.20
1995         506.50
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURE: METRIC
Metric                                  U.S. Equivalent
l meter (m)                                  3.2 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          =              0.62 miles (mi)
I square kilometer (km2)    =     0.39 square mile (sq mi)
I hectare (ha)                             2.47 acres (a)
I metric ton (t)                       2,205 pounds (lb)
t kilogram (kg)           -           2.2046 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 3 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATC           :   Congolese Transportation Agency
ERC           :   Economic Recovery Credit
ESAF          :   Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
IDA           :   International Development Association
IMF           :   International Monetary Fund
ONPT          :   Post and Telecommunications Company
PARESO        :   Action Program for Economic and Social Recovery
PE            :   Public Enterprise
liDEAC        :   Customs Unions of Central African States



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
Credit 2635-COB
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
Preface
Evaluation Summary ..........................................................i
PART I.   PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
INTRODUCTION .........................................................1
Country Background .........................................................1
The Devaluation and the Economic Recovery Credit ....................................I
1. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ................................2
Objectives of the credit .........................................................2
Assessment of objectives .........................................................3
1I. ACHIEVEMENT  OF THE  OBJECTIVES ....................................................3
1. Improving Public Sector Efficiency .........................................................4
2. Strengthening Private Sector Development ..............................................6
3. Social Issues and Poverty Alleviation ......................................................7
III. MAJOR  FACTORS AFFECTING  THE  PROJECT ....................................7
A. Factors under the Control of the Authorities ............................................7
B. Factors Beyond the Control of the Authorities .........................................8
IV. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME AND SUSTAINABILITY ........................8
V. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK AND THE GOVERNMENT .................9
Bank Performance .....................................................9
Borrower Performance ....................................................                    10
VI. FUTURE  OPERATIONS ....................................................                           11
VII. MAJOR  LESSONS AND  CONCLUSIONS ............................................... 11
This document has a restricted distribution and may be uscd by recipients only in the performance of their
afoicial duties. Its contents may not otherwisc be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.                             |



PART H.    BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ............. 13
PART m.   STATISTICAL INFORMATION ..................................... 15
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments .15
Table 2:   Related Bank Credits .16
Table 3:   Project Timetable .17
Table 4:     Credit Disbursements .18
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation        19
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation             25
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project                      25
Table 8a:  Project Costs .26
Table 8b:  Project Financing .26
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits .27
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants in Credit Agreement    28
Table 1 1:   Bank Resources - Staff Inputs                    29
Table 12:    Use of Bank Resources - Missions                 30
APPENDIXES .........                                                 31
A. Board Conditions and Conditions for Credit Effectiveness
B. Chairman's Concluding Remarks on Country Assistance Strategy
C. Map



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
CREDIT 2635-COB
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Congo is a Central African country covering an area of 340,000 km2 with a
highly urbanized population of 2.5 million. Four years after gaining independence in 1960,
Congo opted for a socialist single-party political system and a centrally-planned economy.
Aided until the mid-1980s by a buoyant oil sector and rising government revenue, this
system resulted in a deepening of government intervention in the economy through public
enterprises and a large expansion in public investment. The sharp increases in oil prices in
1973 and 1979 boosted oil output and reduced the traditional reliance of the economy on
agricultural products, timber, and minerals.
2.    The collapse of world oil prices in 1986, compounded by the growing
overvaluation of the CFA Franc, sent the economy into a deep and protracted financial
crisis. Economic activity stagnated and internal and external imbalances became severe.
A large build-up of external debt took place (from $3 billion in 1985 to $5.1 billion in
1993), leading to service difficulties and growing arrears, including to multilateral
institutions. The Bank-Government dialogue was interrupted in September 1991 as
Congo was placed in non-accrual status.
3.    To bring about the required structural change, the Government of Congo, along
with its partner countries in the CFA zone, decided on January 12, 1994 to realign the
parity of the CFA Franc (CFAF) from 50 CFAF/FF to 100 CFAF/FF. A program of
economic and social reforms (PARESO) was adopted to stabilize the economy, return to a
sustainable growth path, and reduce poverty.  This program was supported by an
Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) of US$ 100 million from IDA (as per capita GNP had
fallen below the operational cutoff for IDA eligibility), as well as an IMIF Stand-by
arrangement. To clear Congo's arrears to the Bank before Board presentation, a $100
million bridge loan was devised with the assistance from the French Treasury.
Credit Objectives
4.    The objective of the credit was to support the government's Declaration of
Development Policy adopted in the aftermath of the devaluation of the CFA Franc. The
program aimed at: (i) improving public sector efficiency through better public resource
management and public enterprise reforms; (ii) strengthening the country's production
capacity through trade and regulatory reforms and removing impediments to sectoral
development, including the private sector; and (iii) developing human resources and
reducing poverty.



ii
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Program  measures were largely implemented, although with  some delay.
Budgetary adjustment -- partly associated with the retrenchment of some 10,000 civil
service posts -- allowed for a significant reduction of fiscal imbalances, while progress was
made towards strengthening the financial sector and restructuring the public enterprise
sector. Public enterprise divestiture incurred significant delays, however, reflecting the
tight schedule allowed for action under the program, as well as opposition from vested
interests and severe budgetary constraints. Nevertheless, progress has continued to be
made in all dimensions of the program, and the restructuring/privatization of the largest
public enterprises is being carried out under the ongoing Privatization and Capacity
Building Project.
Sustainability of Results and Future Operations
6.    Sustainability of results remains heavily dependent on the pursuit of appropriate
macro-economic policies and the implementation of a program of supporting reforms that
will consolidate the gains in external competitiveness, stimulate private sector growth, and
restore critical public sector capacity. Program sustainability also hinges on the evolution
of Congo's external environment, namely changes in world prices for oil and timber and
the development of economic ties with neighboring countries.
7.    Recognizing that the achievements brought about by the ERC-supported program
provide a necessary base on which deeper reforms could be built, a Policy Framework
Paper negotiated in March 1996 outlines the Government's objectives for the medium
term and underlines the authorities' commitment to a deeper range of reforms.  It
expresses the Government's determination to reduce poverty through a mix of policies to
expand output and employment in the private sector, and re-orient the role of the State
towards regulation of private sector activity and the provision of social services, especially
to the poor.  The Congolese authorities and the Bank are preparing a Structural
Adjustment Credit to support the public sector restructuring program. The IMF is
preparing an ESAF.
Lessons and Conclusions
8.    The credit was prepared under difficult conditions. Years of of non-existent policy
dialogue with the Bank had impacted Congo's capacity for adjustment, as well as the
Bank's understanding of the economic imbalances confronting the country. The political
context of the reform was likewise difficult.  Inept policies and economic hardship,
associated with thirty years of centrally-planned economic management, had taken their
toll on Congo's social balances. Social and political strife and an armed conflict paralyzed
the country until early 1994, impacting the preparation of the reform program.
9.    Program measures were largely implemented. The Bank, however, did not take
sufficient account of Congo's severe capacity constraints. The tight schedule allowed for



iii
PE divestiture under the program, including the formulation of new regulatory
frameworks, did not appropriately reflect the economic and institutional rigidities left by
three decades of centrally-planned economic management. With the benefit of hindsight,
it appears that the absence -- until September 1995 -- of a parallel technical assistance
operation to prepare appropriate regulatory frameworks and carry out the agreed
divestiture precluded much progress on the PE reform front under the ERC.
10.   The ERC's implementation record suggests the following observations:
(i) the size of the credit was much larger than would have been warranted under IDA
performance criteria. A smaller credit, however, would neither have allowed Congo
to clear its arrears to the Bank nor the Bank to play a leadership role in supporting
the ongoing transition from state to market economy in Congo; and
(ii) program implementation was made possible by the creation of appropriate
institutions and mechanisms to monitor progress and implement reforms, as well as
consultations with key actors.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
CREDIT 2635-COB
PART I.  PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
INTRODUCTION
Country Background
1.    The Congo is a Central African country covering an area of 340,000 km2 with a
highly urbanized population of 2.5 million. Four years after gaining independence in 1960,
Congo opted for a socialist single-party political system and a centrally-planned economy.
Aided until the mid-1980s by a buoyant oil sector and rising government revenue, this
system resulted in a deepening of government intervention in the economy through public
enterprises and a large expansion in public investment. The sharp increases in oil prices in
1973 and 1979 boosted oil output and reduced the traditional reliance of the economy on
agricultural products, timber, and minerals.
2.    The collapse of world oil prices in 1986, compounded by the growing
overvaluation of the CFA Franc, sent the economy into a deep and protracted financial
crisis. Economic activity stagnated (with a 20 percent GDP decline between 1986 and
1993) and internal and external imbalances became severe. A large build-up of external
debt took place (from $3 billion in 1985 to $5.1 billion in 1993), leading to service
difficulties and growing arrears, including to multilateral institutions.  The Bank-
Government dialogue was interrupted in September 1991 as Congo was placed in non-
accrual status.
3.    Congo's economic adjustment and gradual shift to a market-based economy has
been accompanied since 1990 by a political transition to a democratic system of
government. Multiparty elections were held during March-August 1992, but electoral
disputes triggered a 15-month period of intense political and social strife, which developed
into an armed conflict. These disputes were resolved through international arbitration in
January 1994, and a new government was installed with participation of the opposition.
New presidential elections are scheduled for August 1997.
The Devaluation and the Economic Recovery Credit
4.    To bring about the required structural change, the Government of Congo, along
with its partner countries in the CFA zone, decided on January 12, 1994 to realign the
parity of the CFA Franc (CFAF) from 50 CFAF/FF to 100 CFAF/FF. A program of
economic and social reforms (PARESO) was adopted to stabilize the economy, return to a
sustainable growth path, and reduce poverty. In coordination with its partners in the
regional economic and customs union (UDEAC), the Congo undertook a far-reaching tax



2
and tariff reform aimed at simplifying the tax system and broadening the tax base through
a reduction in import tariffs to 5-30 percent and the introduction of a turnover tax (TCA).
Congo's reform program was supported by an Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) of US$
100 million from IDA (as per capita GNP had fallen below the operational cutoff for IDA
eligibility), as well as an IMF Stand-by arrangement. To clear Congo's arrears to the
Bank before Board presentation, a $100 million bridge loan was devised with the
assistance from the French Treasury.
5.    The Economic Recovery Credit was justified by: (i) the Government's declared
commitment to a major change in economic policies; (ii) the need for a swift intervention
to ensure that the price and incentive effects of the exchange rate action would be
accompanied by structural measures to achieve a lasting improvement in competitiveness
and growth; and (iii) the opportunity to support the post-devaluation reform program and
release the economy from the structural imbalances that had gripped the country in recent
years.
6.    The credit was prepared under most difficult conditions. Years of non-existent
policy dialogue with the Bank had impacted Congo's capacity for adjustment, as well as
the Bank's understanding of the economic imbalances confronting the country. The
political context of the reform was likewise difficult.  Inept policies and economic
hardship, associated with thirty years of centrally-planned economic management, had
taken their toll on Congo's social balances. Intense political and social strife and an armed
conflict paralyzed the country until early 1994, impacting the preparation of the reform
program.
1. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Objectives of the Credit
7.    The objective of the credit was to support the government's Declaration of
Development Policy adopted in the aftermath of the devaluation of the CFA Franc. The
program aimed at: (i) improving public sector efficiency through better public resource
management and public enterprise reforms; (ii) strengthening the country's production
capacity through trade and regulatory reforms and removing impediments to sectoral
development, including the private sector; and (iii) developing human resources and
reducing poverty.
8.    The comprehensive nature of the privatization program owed much to a long
period of preparatory work, initiated in 1989 under a Structural Adjustment Loan, which
led to the privatization or liquidation of 13 public enterprises. The authorities continued
to implement the Privatization Technical Assistance Project (approved in FY88) after
Congo was placed in non-accrual status by the Bank, and key studies were completed.
These studies spelled out the alternatives for privatization and laid the groundwork for the



3
preparation of the second Privatization Technical Assistance Project, approved in
September 1995.
Assessment of the Objectives
9.    A comprehensive country assistance strategy was discussed by the Board alongside
the credit (see Appendix B: Chairman's Concluding Remarks on Country Assistance
Strategy). The ERC was a key component of this strategy and provided a consistent
response to the economic and financial crisis confronting the country. The deflationary
process in the recent years, triggered by adverse external shocks (sharp drop in oil prices
from the mid-1980s, real appreciation of the CFA franc) compounded by poor economic
policies and management, had left Congo with legacies incompatible with sustainable
development: an overextended, inefficient and deficit-ridden public sector; a deteriorating
physical and human capital base, and declining productivity; deepening poverty; and a
substantial external debt.
10.   Following years of strained policy dialogue with the Bank, the ERC was to build
the foundation for growth. Within a much improved macroeconomic framework, partly
associated with wage restraint and civil service reform, the program entailed the
disengagement of the State from productive and commercial activities, a necessary step to
achieve an efficient, growing and diversified economy. To accelerate the shift to a
market-based economy, these reforms were to be complemented by measures to promote
private sector development and improve incentives.  Swift availability of funds was
justified by the need to capitalize on the momentum created by the devaluation.
11.   The scope and implementation timetable of agreed measures, however, did not
take sufficient account of the administration's capacity limitations and institutional
rigidities. Congo's poor performance record prior to the devaluation, largely debated in
the context of the Board discussions, underscored the risks of program failure. The size
of the credit, it was argued, was substantial. In this context, concern was expressed that
disbursement in a single tranche was likely to reduce further the credit's policy leverage.
II. ACHIEVEMENT OF THE OBJECTIVES
12.   Program  measures were largely implemented, although with some delay.
Budgetary adjustment -- partly associated with the retrenchment of some 10,000 civil
service posts -- allowed for a significant reduction of fiscal imbalances, while progress was
made towards strengthening the financial sector and restructuring the public enterprise
sector. Public enterprise divestiture incurred significant delays, however, reflecting the
tight schedule allowed for action under the progiam, as well as opposition from vested
interests and severe budgetary constraints. Nevertheless, progress has continued to be
made in all dimensions of the program, and the restructuring/privatization of the largest
public enterprises is being carried out under the ongoing Privatization and Capacity
Building Project.



4
1. Improving Public Sector Efficiency
13.   Agenda  The ERC-supported program  intended to improve public resource
management (with the retrenchment of about 8,000 civil service payroll posts) and initiate
a far-reaching public enterprise (PE) reform: liquidation of the refinery and the transport
conglomerate ATC; privatization of the petroleum product distribution company
Hydrocongo and telecommunications ONPT, and introduction of private management in
the operations of railroads, ports, electricity and water.
14.   Achievement Public resource management - Against a background of continuing
sociopolitical tensions and concerns over security, the Congo's economic performance
during the first half of 1994 fell short of initial expectations. Fiscal developments were
disappointing, affected by a sizable shortfall in non-oil revenue due to ad hoc tax
exemptions and the reclassification of certain imports into lower tariff ranges to alleviate
the price impact of the devaluation.  Poor budgetary performance also reflected
unforeseen government expenditure, mostly on security.  Following the adoption of
corrective measures during the second half of 1994, however, these initial deviations were
partly contained. The shortfall in non-oil revenue for 1994 as a whole was limited to the
equivalent of 2 percentage points of non-oil GDP from the previous year, and was largely
offset by higher-than-expected non-recurring oil revenue ($123 million in bonus payments
for oil exploration permits, or 28 percent of total revenue). Combined with a sharp
reduction in investment spending, the primary deficit was substantially reduced (from 5.2
percent of GDP in 1993 to 1.3 percent of GDP in 1994).
15.   Fiscal adjustment was intensified in 1995.  Measures taken were aimed at
strengthening non-oil revenue mobilization and containing government outlays within
available resources. These measures included on the revenue side the full implementation
of the UDEAC tax and tariff reforms (with the reduction of import tariffs to 5-30 percent
and the lifting of all remaining quantitative import restrictions); an increase in the TCA
rate from 12 percent to 15.25 percent; the strengthening of customs administration
through improved valuation controls, based on the reports of a private foreign firm
(Societ6 Generale de Surveillance); and the establishment by early November of two
special units for the collection of domestic taxes from large enterprises and the adoption of
a system of taxpayer identification numbers. Partly reflecting these measures, non-oil
revenue recovered sharply in 1995 to 17 percent of non-oil GDP, compared with 15.5
percent in 1993.
16.   Civil Service Reform - On the expenditure side, the authorities' efforts focused on
lowering the civil service wage bill in absolute terms through the retrenchment of some
10,000 civil service posts, cuts in salary and benefits, and a reduction in the workweek.
Subsequent to the implementation of the measures agreed under the ERC, Government
continued to make progress towards improved efficiency of the civil service. The Internal
Auditors Department conducted surveys of public sector employment in the armed forces,
the university and the central hospital, and Government moved to reduce salaries by 25
percent (July 1995) and the workforce by a further 1,200. As a result of these measures,



5
the civil service wage bill fell to 11. 1 percent of GDP in 1995 (down from a peak of
almost 18 percent in 1993), and the primary budget balance switched from a deficit of 5.2
percent of GDP in 1993 to a surplus of 6.1 percent in 1995.
17    Public Enterprise Reform - The Economic Recovery Credit laid the basis for the
restructuring of the public enterprise sector. A Privatization Law was passed in June 1994
to provide the regulatory framework and institutional mechanisms for PE privatization and
liquidation. The authorities set up in July 1994 an inter-ministerial privatization committee
to oversee the process, prepare public offerings, and evaluate bids for PEs. The mandate
of this committee was extended by Government to include forestry and agricultural
enterprises (November 1995), and consultants were selected to implement the agreed
restructuring (July 1995). Key institutional measures for PE divestiture also included an
increase in public utility rates, as well as an agreement with the main stakeholders (labor
unions, public enterprise management and technical ministries) on the path and pace of
reform for the largest PEs.
18.   Major reforms were introduced in the oil sector to enhance transparency,
strengthen economic incentives, and raise government revenue.  In August 1994, the
Government adopted a new Petroleum Law, which establishes a transparent regulatory
framework for activity and investment in the oil sector and introduces production-sharing
contracts as the main instrument of taxation for oil companies. As a result, the number of
oil companies involved in oil production and exploration increased from 3 in 1993 to 9 in
early 1996. Consulting firms were selected to carry out the petroleum audit of production
companies and implement the restructuring of the refinery (Coraf) and the petroleum
product distribution company (HydroCongo). The management contract for Coraf was
terminated and replaced with a technical assistance contract.  The refinery is now
scheduled to be phased out over a period of three years.
19.   Reflecting the limited time frame allowed for PE reform implementation, however,
substantial delays were incurred in the restructuring of the six main public enterprises, as
progress in implementing the agreed measures was hampered by: (i) Congo's tight
budgetary constraints (which did not permit the retaining of management advisors to aid
the privatization process); (ii) resistance from vested interests opposed to the divestiture
of Congo's main public enterprises, which had become instruments of social policy under
the previous regime; and (iii) the bankruptcy of the social security system, making it
difficult to implement a redundancy program. The associated delays hindered the
satisfaction of other program objectives to promote private sector development and
reduce the financial drain on Government finance. The authorities have shown a strong
commitment to pursue the course of reforms, however, and a Privatization and Capacity
Building Project was approved in September 1995 to help restructure/privatize the six
main enterprises. With the assistance from foreign consulting firms, reform strategies have
been adopted for these firms, while most inoperative or nonviable enterprises of the PE
sector were liquidated by mid-April 1996.



6
2. Strengthening Private Sector Development
20.   Real GDP is estimated to have declined by 5.5 percent in 1994, reflecting a
contraction of activity in both the oil and non-oil sectors, as well as the private sector's
sluggish response following the parity change.  While the devaluation has improved
incentives for agricultural production, structural constraints -- lack of road maintenance
and an aging rural population -- are still overwhelming. Non-oil GDP recovered modestly
(2.2 percent) in 1995, however, contributing to an increase of 1 percent in total real GDP.
The Economic Recovery Credit strengthened private sector development in three
particular respects:
(i) Congo 's growth potential has been enhanced: supported by appropriate tax and
trade reforms (UDEAC reforms), the parity change restored incentives to most
exports (notably timber), leading to a twofold increase in Congo's non-oil export
volume in 1994 and generating a more propitious environment to economic activity
and investment. Reduced inflation in 1995 (8.6 percent) has fostered the emergence
of a sounder economic environment,
(ii) Government intervention has been reduced: progress toward the liberalization of
the petroleum sector, along with preliminary actions to divest public enterprises, laid
the groundwork for private sector growth in Congo. Reflecting improved investor
confidence, the number of petroleum companies operating in the Congo increased
from 3 in 1993 to 9 by early 1996, and production sharing contracts have already
been signed for all new and virtually all existing fields;
(iii) operating difficulties have been reduced: the labor legislation was revised to
liberalize hiring and firing procedures, and a new Investment Code was adopted in
accordance with the UDEAC tax and customs reforms (January 1996).  Measures
were also taken to increase the reliability of transport services with the opening up of
river transportation to competition.
21.   Progress was also made in 1994 and 1995 towards reforming the financial sector.
A Sector Report was completed in 1994 to clarify the extent of the crisis confronting the
sector, and a financial sector restructuring committee was established. Measures taken in
1995 included the completion of independent audits for most financial institutions.
Government initiated discussions with foreign investors for the privatization of two state-
owned commercial banks, but little progress was made towards the liquidation of two
others. The authorities ended the monopoly of the insurance company, and a plan was
initiated for the settlement of the cross debts involving government and PEs.
22.   Nevertheless, private sector development in Congo remains impeded by substantial
Government arrears, as well as a legacy of heavy-handed public intervention in the
economy: the public sector is large (about 100,000 people, compared with less than
20,000 in the private sector), and private sector growth is discouraged by a poor business
environment and a lack of entrepreneurial culture. Notwithstanding some progress under



7
the program, as well as renewed commitment to pursue the course of reforms under new
Bank- and IMF-supported programs, the authorities have yet to complete the transition to
a competitive, market-based economy.
3. Social Issues and Poverty Alleviation
23.   The Economic Recovery Credit entailed measures to develop human resources and
reduce poverty. These objectives were partly met through:
(i) income growth and real income protection: aided by donor-financed projects to
stimulate agricultural output, the parity change provided a strong stimulus to
economic activity in the tradable goods sector (notably in rural areas, where 40
percent of total population is concentrated) and improved the economy's
attractiveness for investment. To mitigate the impact of the price adjustment on wage
earners' purchasing power, trade liberalization measures were combined with the
implementation of price protection measures for key inputs (essential foodstuffs,
priority medicines, etc.),
(ii) shift of resources towards human resource development: an education/health
investment program was prepared under the ERC, as well as a maintenance program
for health centers, primary classrooms, and priority medical equipment.
Health/education staff training and redeployment plans were also implemented in
1994, and an inventory of needs for repair of classrooms and health centers was
carried out in urban and adjacent areas.  Donor assistance allowed for the
rehabilitation and operation of schools and health centers. Much more remains to be
done in these sectors, however, to re-establish the State's capacity to deliver basic
services to the population.
24.   Despite their contribution to the improvement of the country's human resource
base, the measures undertaken under the program could not eliminate the negative impact
of the devaluation on the poorest segments of the population. Notwithstanding the
emergence of new opportunities to all social groups as a result of revived growth and
competitiveness, the devaluation and the ensuing adjustment process have affected the
various social groups differently and unevenly. In particular, inflation has eroded real
incomes in the nontradable sectors, notably that part of the primarily urban population
whose livelihood depends on spending by public sector employees, already affected by
substantial wage cuts and staff reductions.
IH. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors under the Control of the Authorities
25.   Weaknesses in implementation capacity and financial management, reflecting the
authorities' difficulty in sufficiently internalizing the program and creating an effective



8
mechanism for forceful and timely government action, affected program implementation in
three distinct respects:
(i) fiscal developments in the first half of 1994 were affected by a sizable shortfall in
non-oil revenue (due to ad hoc tax exemptions and reclassification of certain imports
into lower tariff ranges) and non-budgetary expenditure, mostly on security. As a
result, only the first purchase was made under the parallel IMF Stand-by,
(ii) despite the proceeds (CFAF 24.4 billion) from the sale of the Government shares in
the largest oil company (Elf Congo), persistent fiscal imbalances, compounded by a
shortfall in external assistance, gave rise to a further buildup of domestic and external
payments arrears, hindering private sector development,
(iii) the pace of privatization was temporarily slowed in early 1996 by strike action by
the trade unions. Government moved quickly to re-establish the dialogue with the
unions.
Factors beyond the Control of the Authorities
26.   Program  implementation was also affected by unfavorable overall economic
developments and social instability:
(i) a reduction of the tax base following the strong decline in economic activity in 1994
(as domestic demand was adversely affected by inflation) hindered revenue collection,
contributing to the poor fiscal performance mentioned earlier;
(ii) the implementation of corrective measures to improve revenue collection was
delayed by a protracted strike of civil servants during the first quarter of 1995,
particularly those of the tax collection agencies;
(iii) budgetary constraints did not permit the Government to launch the privatization
program until IDA and French support was made available in September 1995, given
the high cost of the technical and financial services concerned.
IV. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME AND SUSTAINABILITY
27.   Program  measures were largely implemented, although with  some delay.
Budgetary adjustment -- partly associated with the retrenchment of some 10,000 civil
service posts -- allowed for a significant alleviation of fiscal imbalances, while progress
was made towards reforming the financial sector and restructuring the PE sector.
Reflecting the tight schedule allowed for action under the program, however, actual public
enterprise divestiture incurred substantial delays, as progress in implementing the agreed
measures was hampered by severe budgetary constraints and resistance from vested
interests. The authorities have shown a strong commitment to pursue the course of



9
reforms, however, and the restructuring/privatization of the six enterprises that dominate
the PE sector is being prepared under the ongoing Privatization and Capacity Building
Project.
28.   The reform  program  supported by the Economic Recovery Credit was
instrumental in:
(i) building the foundation for growth in Congo and setting the stage for a
deeper adjustment program in a medium-term framework. The program has re-
established a real exchange rate consistent with economic competitiveness (with
a substantially lower rate of inflation), improving substantially the structure of
relative prices and economic incentives.  The new Hydrocarbon Code has
spurred activity in the oil sector and increased the State's share in oil revenue
from less than 20 percent to 33 percent of oil output. Supported by better
governance and security, trade liberalization and preliminary action to reduce
government involvement in the economy have generated a more propitious
environment for private initiative and enhanced the attractiveness of the economy
for investment, and
(ii) strengthening the Bank's policy dialogue with Congo, following years of
non-accrual status.
29.   Sustainability of results remains heavily dependent on the pursuit of appropriate
macro-economic policies and the implementation of a program of supporting reforms that
will consolidate the gains in external competitiveness, stimulate private sector growth, and
restore critical public sector capacity. Program sustainability also hinges on the evolution
of Congo's external environment, namely changes in world prices for oil and timber and
the development of economic ties with neighboring countries. Areas for future reform
include: (a) improving public resource management through public finance and public
enterprise reforms; (b) strengthening the country's production capacity through regulatory
reforms and removing impediments to private sector activity, and (c) developing human
resources and reducing poverty. Continued donor support is required to assist Congo in
implementing these reforms and reach over time a more viable fiscal situation.
V. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK AND THE GOVERNMENT
Bank Performance
30.   The Bank's performance in the design and monitoring of the Economic Recovery
Credit was satisfactory overall. The scope of the ERC's objectives was commensurate
with the extent of the economic and financial crisis confronting the country, providing a
consistent response to the parity change of the CFA Franc. The credit was instrumental in
accelerating Congo's shift to a market-based economy and promoting private sector
development. Three supervision missions by the Bank, along with strong government



10
commitment to reform, were instrumental in focusing assistance on key activities for the
success of the program.
31.   The reform program, however, was overambitious. The tight schedule allowed for
PE divestiture under the program, including the formulation of new regulatory
frameworks, did not appropriately reflect the severe capacity constraints left by three
decades of centrally-planned economic management. It was unrealistic to expect that the
largest enterprises would actually be privatized within the time frame envisaged under the
program. With the benefit of hindsight, it appears that timely implementation of the
ambitious privatization/liquidation program envisaged under the ERC would have required
the adoption of a parallel Technical Assistance operation to strengthen public sector
capacity, prepare appropriate regulatory frameworks and carry out the agreed divestiture.
Until the Privatization and Capacity Building Project was approved in September 1995,
the severe budgetary constraints and capacity limitations confronting the country
precluded much progress on the PE reform front.
Borrower Performance
32.   Government performance in implementing the reform  program  was broadly
satisfactory. To ensure program ownership and overcome administrative weaknesses, the
authorities created in the initial stages of the program a system of high-level committees to
focus on the implementation and monitoring of agreed measures. The authorities' efforts
to mobilize support from opposition parties and labor unions were rewarded by a broad
consensus on reform among the civil society. This was temporarily interrupted by illegal
strike action in early 1996, but Government moved quickly to re-establish the dialogue.
The Government's demonstrated commitment to reform was reflected in its ability to
provide for timely implementation of substantial civil service staff cuts, as well as of other
measures (privatization law, petroleum law, public utility price increases) designed to
advance reforms.
33.   Despite early progress in meeting critical up-front conditionalities, Congo's
economic performance during the first half of 1994 fell short of initial expectations.
Deficiencies in implementation capacity and a weak private sector, spawned by a legacy of
close to 30 years of centrally-planned economic management, were reflected in poor
revenue performance and a sluggish supply response of the economy following the
devaluation.
34.   In the second part of 1994, however, the authorities took remedial action to
address the shortcomings observed earlier. First, to improve financial management, the
Government implemented, with assistance from the IMF, a treasury cash-flow plan. The
authorities also made a determined effort to improve revenue performance by
strengthening the customs administration and establishing special units for the collection of
domestic taxes from large enterprises and the adoption of a system of taxpayer
identification numbers. On the expenditure side, efforts focused on lowering the civil
service wage bill through the retrenchment of additional posts from the civil service, cuts



I1
in salary and benefits, and a reduction in the workweek. As a result of these measures, the
shortfall in non-oil revenue for 1994 as a whole was limited to the equivalent of 2
percentage points of non-oil GDP from the previous year, and the primary deficit was
substantially reduced.
VI. FUTURE OPERATIONS
35.   The authorities have given clear signals to economic agents and donors alike
regarding their economic strategy for the future. The Congolese authorities' vision is to
implement policy reforms that would ensure improved public resource management and
continued public enterprise reform; promote private sector development; and develop
human resources.
36.   Recognizing that the achievements brought about by the ERC-supported program
provide a necessary base on which deeper reforms could be built, a Policy Framework
Paper negotiated in March 1996 outlines the Government's objectives for the medium
term and underlines the authorities' commitment to a deeper range of reforms.  It
expresses the Government's determination to reduce poverty through a mix of policies to
expand output and employment in the private sector, and re-orient the role of the State
towards regulation of private sector activity and the provision of social services, especially
to the poor.  The Congolese authorities and the Bank are preparing a Structural
Adjustment Credit to support the public sector restructuring program. The IMF is
preparing an ESAF.
VII. MAJOR LESSONS AND CONCLUSIONS
37.   The Economic Recovery Credit aimed at improving public sector efficiency;
strengthening the country's production capacity; and developing human resources and
reducing poverty. Program measures were largely implemented, although with substantial
delays, and contributed to the establishment of a solid base on which deeper reforms could
be built. The ERC-supported program was instrumental in: (i) re-establishing a real
exchange rate consistent with economic competitiveness; (ii) reducing significantly
Congo's fiscal imbalances and reforming its overextended civil service; and (iii)
accelerating Congo's shift to a market-based economy and promoting private sector
development. The ERC laid the basis for strengthened Bank policy dialogue with Congo,
and allowed the resumption of new lending by the donor community.
38.   The credit was prepared under difficult conditions. Years of non-existent policy
dialogue with the Bank had impacted Congo's capacity for adjustment, as well as the
Bank's understanding of the economic imbalances confronting the country. The political
context of the reform was likewise difficult. Inept policies and economic hardship,
associated with thirty years of centrally-planned economic management, had taken their



12
toll on Congo's social balances. Social and political strife and an armed conflict paralyzed
the country until early 1994, impacting the preparation of the reform program.
39.   The Bank, however, did not take sufficient account of Congo's severe capacity
constraints. The tight schedule allowed for PE divestiture under the program, including
the formulation of new regulatory frameworks, did not appropriately reflect the economic
and institutional rigidities left by three decades of centrally-planned economic
management. With the benefit of hindsight, it appears that the absence -- until September
1995 -- of a parallel technical assistance operation to prepare appropriate regulatory
frameworks and carry out the agreed divestiture precluded much progress on the PE
reform front under the ERC.
40.   The ERC's implementation record suggests the following observations:
(i) Bank support was crucial in initiating an improvement in economic management
in Congo. The size of the credit was much larger than would have been warranted
under IDA performance criteria. A smaller credit, however, would neither have
allowed Congo to clear its arrears to the Bank nor the Bank to play a leadership role
in supporting the ongoing transition from state to market economy in Congo,
(ii) program implementation was made possible by the creation of appropriate
institutions and mechanisms to monitor progress and implement reforms (setting up
of an interministerial privatization committee in July 1994, creation of a financial
sector restructuring committee in February 1994), as well as consultations with key
actors;
(iii) the reform program was overambitious and took insufficient account of the
severe capacity constraints in Congo. It was unrealistic to expect much progress in
the divestiture program in the absence of adequate funding for consultant services
and appropriate mechanisms to help with redundancies.



13
PART H: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
The comments made by the Congolese Government focus on: (i) the context of the
program, (ii) the objectives of the credit and project implementation; and (iii) the lessons
to be drawn from the credit, and cooperation with the World Bank. The report generally
describes in a realistic fashion the Congo's performance in the implementation of the
Economic Recovery Credit, as well as the difficulties which prevented the objectives from
being attained according to schedule. The Congolese Government supports the substance
of Part I of the report. The observations in the present document focus on specific aspects
which need to be stressed.
The context of the program
The program supported by the Economic Recovery Credit was negotiated with the
World Bank under very difficult conditions. The Bank-Government dialogue had been
interrupted for several years after Congo was placed in non-accrual status. From 1991 to
1993, the adoption of a multiparty democratic system of government disrupted the
economy. This period culminated in the 1993 civil war, deeply affecting the mechanisms
governing the economy (finance, transportation, trade, production).
In order to achieve the desired turnaround in performance and initiate economic
stabilization, the Government developed an Action Program for Economic Recovery
(PARESO), which was adopted by the National Assembly as early as January 1994. This
program defined the general orientation for the recovery of the economy. The Declaration
of Development Policy was based on the Action Program, and served as a basis for the
Economic Recovery Credit negotiated with the World Bank. The implementation of this
program started in May 1994.
Program objectives and implementation
(i) Improving public sector efficiency
This component aimed at improving public sector efficiency through better public
resource management and the restructuring of public enterprises (privatization). The
retrenchment of almost 10,000 civil service payroll posts permitted a reduction in the total
workforce. This measure, combined with salary cuts of almost 27 percent, resulted in a
lower civil service wage bill. It should be noted that efforts to implement those measures
relied exclusively on the Government's own institutional capacity. The cleaning up of the
civil service and payroll data files was carried out by the Internal Auditors Department
without external assistance.
With respect to privatization of public enterprises, the program permitted the
setting up of the necessary regulatory and institutional framework (Privatization Law,
Privatization Committee). As mentioned in Part I of the Implementation Completion
Report, the privatization process was delayed due to the fact that the economic recovery



14
credit did not permit the retaining of consultants to prepare the privatization of the six
main enterprises.
The program had a clear impact on the petroleum  sector.  It supported the
Government's efforts to revise the regulatory framework for oil exploitation in the Congo.
Production-sharing contracts have enabled significant progress. Similarly, implementation
of the tax and tariff reform permitted a reduction in fiscal imbalances confronting oil
companies, as well as the renegotiation of special agreements with the support of the
Bank. These measures resulted in a significant improvement in government oil revenue,
and represent among of the most positive aspects of the program.
(ii) Strengthening private sector development
The strengthening of private sector development also centered on tax and tariff
reform, notably on import liberalization, the general application of the turnover tax and the
elimination of exemptions aimed at protecting the domestic market. The impact of those
measures on the competitiveness of domestic enterprises has been mixed.
Price liberalization measures and the elimination of controls increased competition
on the market, while leading to stabilization, to some degree, of prices of goods and
services. In 1995, prices rose by only 5 percent, while they increased by 42 percent in
1994.
(iii) developing human resources and reducing poverty
The program did not sufficiently emphasize the development of human resources.
The agreed measures in the health and education sectors were implemented with the
assistance from donors. However, they remain insufficient in the face of the difficulties
encountered in those sectors.
Lessons
The Government is aware that much remains to be done, and that many
deficiencies need to be corrected. Bank assistance is being sought to overcome those
obstacles. More support is needed, because Congo's financial requirements are substantial
and the program did not adequately assess the country's institutional weaknesses.
Consultants could be sent on secondment to the Congolese administration to improve its
performance.  During the program, the Bank confined itself to organizing selective
supervision missions, which proved insufficient for program implementation.
Finally, social sectors were insufficiently taken into account under the program.
This is especially true for education, since: (i) no project was envisaged to support this
crucial sector; and (ii) education is affected by structural weaknesses (including
overabundant workforce, lower quality of education, increased academic failure, and
insufficient equipment). Health and education need greater support.



PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                                                       15
Table 1
Summary of Assessments
(A) Achievement of Objectives            Substantial          Partial          Negligible     Not applicable
Macroeconomic Policies                  F__ _                X      ]                  7      _
Sector Policies                                              X
Financial Objectives                          _                                            L r 
Institutional Development            L        x_    __ r                         --               _      1
Physical Objectives                 r      =_    J   C                                            x _L x
Poverty Reduction                          X __                                                        J
Gender Issues                       L
Other Social Objectives                                                                           N     7X 1
Environmental Objectives                                 ______ -         L                       X
Public Sector Management             r             | _  _  
Private Sector Development          |NX
Other (specify)                     |xx =
(B) Proiect SustainabilW'                  Likely            Unlikely          Uncertain
N X  X                 -      I
Highly
(C) Bank Perfornance                     Satisfactory      Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                                        N1    X        ]1
Preparation Assistance                                 E X        =
Appraisal                                                    N L  =X
Supervision                                        |
Highly
(D) Borrower Performance                 Satisfactory      Satisfactory        Deficient
Preparation                                                  N ]  [  X -1
Implementation                      ;                        N      7
Covenant Compliance                                                             _ _-X=
Operation (if applicable)           7           <                    l
Highly                                                Highly
(E) Assessment of Outcome                Satisfactory      Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory
r = - = I 1                          r: --         |



16
Table 2
Related Bank Credits
Credit                     Credit                         Purpose                        Year of                  Status
Title                    Number                                                        Approval
Preceding operations
1. Privatization and Capacity Building Project    2775-CG    (a) help the Governuent prepare regulatory frameworks  1995          Ongoing
for the 6 major public enterprises and open the sectors
up to competition progressively; (b) conduct the
privatization of these PEs; (c) liquidate other non-viable
PEs; and (d) support regulation and competition in the
financial sector and reforms in banking institutions
2. Public Enterprise Institutional Development   2868-CG    Assist the Government in acquiring the necessary  1987                 Closed
Project                                             technical and administrative capacity to implement PE
reforms and to improve PE management
3. First Structural Adjustment Loan       2866-CG    (a) re-establish overall financial equilibrium independently   1987           Closed
of the vagaries of the oil market; (b)lay the foundations
for self-sustaining economic growth over the medium term,
with strong emphasis on development of the non-oil
sectors; and (c) restore the country creditworthiness



17
Table 3
Proiect Timetable
Date                   Date actual/
Steps in Project Cycle              Planned \2              latest estimate
Identification (Initiating Memorandum)                         February 1994
Preparation                                                    3 months
Appraisal                                                      April 4-22, 1994
Negotiations                         June 6-7, 1994            June 6-7, 1994
Letter of Development Policy                                   February 2, 1994
Board                               June 28, 1994             June 28, 1994
Signing                                                        June 29, 1994
Effectiveness                        July 5, 1994              June 29, 1994
Project completion
Credit closing                       July 5, 1995             |June 30, 1994
\2 As provided in the President's Report.



18
Table 4
Credit Disbursements
Estimated and Actual
FY
l _____________________                           1995
(US$ millions, unless indicated otherwise)
Appraisal estimate                                100.0
Actual disbursement                               100.0
Actual as % of estimate                           100%
Date of final disbursement                   June 30, 1994



19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated Date   Status
General Measures
Transmission of request regarding potential debt reduction    February 15, 1994    Done
operation to World Bank
Removal of 8,000 officials from the civil service, including    February 28, 1994    Done
2,000 by year's end
Revision of labor legislation                        July 31, 1994       Done
Inclusion in 1994 investment budget of CFAF 15 billion to   February 15, 1994
cover the costs of restructuring the public sector
Specific Measures
Public enterprises
Adjustment of public utility rates (water; electricity;  February 28, 1994    Done
telephone; transportation)
Inclusion of government consumption in budget (water,  February 28, 1994    Done
electricity; telephone; transportation)
Application of government consumption reduction plan  April 30, 1994     Done
(particularly telephone - access to long-distance)
Adoption of privatization law by the National Assembly  March 31, 1994   Done
Strengthening of powers of Government Portfolio      March 31, 1994      Done
Directorate in Ministry of Planning and Economy
Creation of interministerial monitoring committee    July 31, 1994       Done
responsible for preparing specifications for the selection of
interim managers for SNE; SNDE; ATC; ONPT;
HYDROCONGO; CORAF
Study of cross debts between enterprises, and between  July 1, 1994      end-1995
enterprises, the banks and the Government
Quarterly beginning on
Hiring of a consultant specializing in monitoring oil  March 1, 1994     Done
operations (production; refining; marketing of crude and
refined products) as well as financial flows
Hiring of oil/computer consultant to design and install a  March 1, 1994  Done
computerized monitoring system and to train the staff of the
DG of Hydrocarbons
Adoption of law containing the Hydrocarbons Code     March 31, 1994      Done
Definition by the two consultants of the human and physical  March 31, 1994  Done
resources needed by the DG of Hydrocarbons
Preparation by the two consultants of the terms of reference   March 31, 1994  1995
and specifications for the selection of a consulting firm to
carry out the petroleum audit of production companies, and
issuance of call for tenders
Installation of a computerized monitoring system in the DG   June 30, 1994  end-1994
of Hydrocarbons
Selection of the office to carry out the petroleum audit  June 30, 1994  1995



20
As part of the Public Investment Program (PIP), petroleum
sector chapter:
Call for tenders for an emergency intervention team for the    March 31, 1994    December 1994
management of the two enterprises (CEO, departmental
directors, etc.) CORAF and HYDROCONGO
Selection of consultant to implement the restructuring     June 30, 1994         July 1994
First interventions (special missions) of the team (evaluation   July 1, 1994    Implemented under
of assets and liabilities of CORAF and HYDROCONGO,                               the ongoing
preparation of the social plans, emergency measures                              Privatization and
regarding efficiency and cash flow) from                                         Capacity Building
Project
Establishment of emcrgenev intervention team for the       September             Privatization and
mnanagement of the iwo enterprises (CORAF and                                    Capacity Building
HYDROCONGO)                                                                      Project
CORAF (Refuincry)
Mailinig of letter of notice regarding the existing agreement   March 1, 1994    Privatization and
Capacity Building
Project
Definition of efficiency measures (particularly downsizing  March 31, 1994       Privatization and
and wage costs) and implementation                                               Capacity Building
Project
Evaluation of performance criteria for efficiency measures    July 31, 1994      Privatization and
Capacity Building
l  _   _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _   _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _   Project
Team intervention:
Establishment of closing balance sheet; evaluation of assets;   August 31, 1994  Privatization and
and development of social plan                                                   Capacity Building
Project
Preparation of specifications for the takeover of the refinery    September 30, 1994   Privatization and
and issuance of call for tenders                                                 Capacity Building
Project
Cancellation of existing agreement                         September 1, 1994    Done
Liberalization of imports of petroleum products            September 1, 1994    Not implemented
Signing of sale or leasing agreement                       December 31, 1994   Privatization and
Capacity Building
Project
Takeover of refinery (sale or lease)                       January 1, 1995       Privatization and
Capacity Building
Project
1-TYDROCONGO
Intervention of management team
Inventory of assets; establishment of closing balance sheet;    August 31, 1994  Privatization and
development of social plan; preparation of privatization                         Capacity Building
specifications  _                                                                Project
Appointment of management team                             September 1, 1994    Privatization and
Capacity Building
_ _ .____________________________________________   ____________________  Project



21
Issuance of calls for tenders for service stations and  December 31, 1994   Privatization and
transportation equipment                                                   Capacity Building
Project
Signing of agreements with companies taking over       December 31. 1994   Privatization and
distribution                                                               Capacity Building
Project
Issuance of call for tenders for storage facility assets  September 30, 1994  Privatization and
Capacity Building
._____________ _  Project
Signing of agreements (network and transportation and  December 31. 1994   Privatization and
storage)                                                                   Capacity Building
Project
ELECTRICITY SECTOR
Call for tenders to provide an emergency intervention and  April 30, 1994  Privatization and
interim management team                                                    Capacity Building
Project
Intervention period of interim managers                September 1994 to   Privatization and
September 1995      Capacity Building
Project
Selection of consultants                               July 31, 1994       Privatization and
Capacity Building
Project
Special missions                                       beginning August    Privatization and
1994                Capacitv Building
Project
Application of social plan                             beginning March     Privatization and
1995               Capacity Building
___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ Project
Revision of electricity law (privatization; assets)    December 1, 1994    Privatization and
Capacitv Building
Project
Issuance of call for tenders for selection of operator  July 1, 1995       Privatization and
Capacity Building
Project
Selection of private operator and establishment of assets  December 1, 1995    Privatization and
management company (societe de patrimoine)                                 Capacity Buildinig
________________________________________________ _________________Projecl
WATER SECTOR
Creation of operating and assets management companies  February 1. 1995    Privatization and
Capacity Building
______________________________________________ ________________Project
Preparation of management contract (assumption of      May 31, 1994        Privatization and
commercial risk by operator; term of agreement 5 years) and                Capacity Building
issuance of call for tenders                                               Project
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS (PTT) SECTOR                                   _
Preparation and adoption of law on the PTT             March 31, 1994      Privatization and
Capacity Buildinig
_roject



22
Issuance of call for tenders for team of consultants for  May 31, 1994   |Privatization and
interim management and restructuring of sector                             Capacity Building
Project
Restructuring Deriod:
Recruitment of emergency intervention and management   September 1, 1994    Privatization and
team                                                                       Capacity Building
Project
Special missions                                      beginning            Privatization and
July/August 1994    Capacity Building
Project
Evaluation of assets/liabilities                       August 31, 1994     Privatization and
Capacity Building
Project
Development of plan for treatment of postal debt and   August 31, 1994     Privatization and
Savings Bank depositors                                                    Capacity Building
._____________________ Project
Establishment of team                                  September 1, 1995    Privatization and
Capacity Building
Project
Signing of agreement with takeover company            December 31, 1995   Privatization and
Capacity Building
Project
Post Office
Definition of performance contract for post office and  September 1, 1994    Privatization and
issuance of call for tenders for selection of management                   Capacity Building
group                                                                      Project
Restructuring Period                                   September 1994 to
September 1995
Establish competition in parcel delivery subsector    December 31, 1995   Privatization and
Signing of agreement for management of post office                         Capacity Building
Project
TRANSPORTATION
Development of master plan for transport sector        June 30, 1994       A donor advisory
group was created,
and agreement was
reached on a plan
Issuance of call for tenders for management contract for  April 30, 1994   December 1994
railroad (assumption of commercial risk by operator)
Signing of agreement                                  July 1, 1994
Liberalization of management river transportation     April 30, 1994       Company is being
liquidated and
opened to
competition
Signing of agreements                                 July 1, 1994
Creation of port management company                   May 31, 1994
Signing of agreements                                 August 1, 1994



23
ROADS SECTOR
Adoption of road maintenance budget (CFAF 2 billion) -  February 28, 1994    1995
Priority to be given to network serving agricultural areas
Provisions (budget law implementing decree) to encourage    February 28, 1994    Not implemented
participation of small- and medium-sized enterprises
(SMEs) in road maintenance
Involvement of private operators in road maintenance  already begun
Reorganization of the Congolese Road Maintenance Office   November 1, 1994    Study was done.
(OCER) (new role: programming and supervision of                         Implementation is
maintenance)                                                             condition of new
SAC
FINANCIAL SECTOR
Creation of restructuring committee (BEAC/Finance/   February 28, 1994    Done
Planning) (Letter from Minister of Finance to Governor of
BEAC)
Development by committee of plan for settlement of   April 1, 1994       Not done
government arrears to banks/financial institutions
Completion of UCB and BIDC audits by COBAC           September 1, 1994   Done
Effective liquidation of BCC and creation of another bank    end-December 1994  Liquidator
with majority private capital                                            appointed in
Liquidation of BNDC                                                      February 1996
Financial restructuring of UCB and BIDC              January 1. 1995     Under way
Development of insurancc restructuring plan          January 1, 1995     Monopoly was
ended in August
1995. Calls for bids
for audit launched
in April 1996
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Implementation of price protection measures for essential    January 31, 1994  Done
foodstuffs
Reformulation of 1994 budget to give priority to food crops   February 28, 1994    Done
Clarification of status of 3 rice-processing plants and  March 31, 1994  Now scheduled for
evaluation of assets                                                     privatization
Issuance of call for tenders for takeover of rice-processing  Date to be
plants                                               determined
Restructuring of IBRD extension project to focus financial    March 31, 1994  Work is under way
resources on Kindamba IFAD project                                       with a Japanese
grant
World Bank sectoral study                            May 31, 1994        Under way
Development of investment program                    November 30, 1994   PER initiated in
1995
ENVIRONMENT
Approval of PNAE (National Environmental Action Plan)    April 15, 1994  June 1994
by the Minister of the Environment
Transmission of PNAE to World Bank for comments      April 30, 1994      July 1994
Transmission of World Bank comments to government    May 15, 1994        July 1994
Approval of PNAE by Council of Ministers             June 30, 1994   -   Done



24
World Bank mission - PNAE/preparation of natural resource  AprilUMay 1994  Work was initiated
management project
Inventory of forest resources                          January 1, 1995     Under way
HUMAN RESOURCES SECTOR
Re-examination of levels of financing of nonwage budgetarv  February 15, 1994    1995
items (medicine; textbooks; supplies; professional
development/retraining and determination of appropriations
Measures to protect key input prices. e.g., supplies; priority   February 15, 1994    Done
medicines; prophylactics...
Inventory of needs for repair of classrooms and health  May 31. 1994       Done
centers in urban and adjacent areas
Establishment of mechanism for contract approval and   June 30, 1994       March 1995
management
Implementation of health/education staff training and  September 1, 1994    May 1994
redeployment plans
Preparation of education/health investment program     November 30, 1994   May, 1994
Preparation of maintenance program for health centers,  April 30, 1994     Early 1994
primary classrooms, and priority medical equipment



25
Table 6
Key Indicators for Proiect Operation
Not applicable
Table 7
Project Studies
Not applicable



26
Table 8a
Proiect Costs
Not applicable
Table 8b
Project Financin2
Appraisal estimate       Actual/Latest estimate
Item                  (US$ m)                     (USS mil)
|IDA                           100.0                      100.0
Other                           0.0                       0.0 
TOTAL               100.0                      100.0



27
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
COSTS ($ millions)                              BENEFITS
100          Correction of macroeconomic imbalances, partly associated with tax and
tariff reforms and the retrenchment of some 8,00 civil service posts.
Passage of a privatization law and a petroleum law and initiation of a
far-reaching public enterprise reform. Progress towards a more efficient
financial sector. Poorest segments of the population protected from the
negative impact of the devaluation through price controls and shift of
resources towards human resource development.



28
Table 10
Status of Lesal Covenants in Loan Agreement
Section  Covenant  Present          Fulfilment Date      Description of Covenant                                             Comments
Type      Status      Original      Actual
3.01       9          C        continuous               Borrower to submit project progress report periodically and
exchange views with the Bank on the basis of this report
3.02       3          C        continuous               Procurement guidelines
3.03 (a)     I          C       continuous               Maintain records and proper accounts of expenditures
under credit
3.03 (b,c     I          C       continuous               Have records and accounts audited; furnish audit/othcr
information to IDA
5        12          C        Prior to                National Assembly to enact a Code des Hydrocarbures
effectiveness             satisfactory to the Association
Covenants tymes:                                          10= Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9      Present Status:
I Accounts/audits                                         11= Sector or cross-sector budgetary or other resource allocation  C  = Covenant complied with
2= Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries    12= Sector or cross-sector policy/regulatory/institutional action  CD= Complied with after delay
3= Flow and utilization of project funds                  13= Other                                                     CP= Complied with partially
4= Counterpart funding                                                                                                  NC= Not complied with
5= Management aspects of the project or executing agency
6= Environmental covenants
7= Involuntary resettlement
8= Indigenous people
9= Monitoring, review and reporting



29
Table 11
Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Stage of                           Planned                      Actual
Project Cycle               Weeks        US$ (OOOs)      Weeks       USS (OOOs)
Preparation to                                            66.7          161.7
Appraisal
Appraisal                                                  17           46.1
Negotiations through                                       8            21.8
Board Approval
Supervision                  14.9           36.8          14.4          45.8
Completion                     6            15.9          1.6            1.2
Total                                                     107.7         276.6



30
Table 12
Use of Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of                         Month/   Number of   Days in                Specialized            Performance Rating                Types of
Project Cycle                        Year        Persons        Field           staff skills       Implementation   Development          Problems
represented             status        objectives
Through Appraisal
Appraisal through Board Approval                  Apr-94           10           19          EC, LEG, TEC                2               2
Board Approval through Effectiveness
Supervision                                       Nov-94           6            1 1               EC                    2               2
Completion                                 I                               I            I                                                       I
Key to specialized staff skills                                            Key to Performance Ratmi                      Key to Problems
EC  Economist                                                              I = Problem Free                              AF = Availability of funds
EE  Infrastructure Engineer                                                2 = Moderate Problems                         CLC = Comphance with legal covenants
FA  Financial Analyst                                                      3 = Major Problems                            FP = Financial Perfomiance
CC = Computer Consultant         TEC = Transport Economist                 4 = Major Problems -                          PMP = Project management perfonnance
UP  Urban Planner                 STE = Senior Transport Enginecr             Corrective Action to be taken              PP = Procurement progress
TRE = Traffic Engineer            MFA= Municipal Financial Analyst                                                       SP = Studies progress
LEG - Legal                        UFS = Urban Financial Specialist
YP = Young Professional           CONS = Consultant



31
APPENDIXES
APPENDIX A
ACTIONS TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT AS BOARD CONDITIONS AND
CONDITIONS FOR EFFECTIVENESS
The Congo Government implemented the following measures prior to Board presentation:
a) Retrenchment of about 8000 civil service payroll posts (representing 10 percent of the
total), with limits on new recruitment, on the size of the civil service, and on the civil
service wage bill;
b) Agreement reached between Government and the management company of the oil
refinery to end the management contract by September 1994, thus clearing the way for
privatization or liquidation of the refinery;
c) Increases in transport and public utility rates to stem the hemorrhage of public
resources, rationalize consumption of public utilities, and prepare for eventual
privatization of the leading public enterprises;
d) Creation of a commission charged with liquidating two banks and auditing two others,
to prepare for their privatization;
e) Adoption by the Council of Ministers and submission to the National Assembly of a
Petroleum Law aimed at flexibility and transparency in agreements and balancing the
interests of the government and the producing companies;
f) Adoption by the Council of Ministers and submission to the National Assembly of a
privatization law;
g) Initiation of the selection of an administrator to oversee the liquidation of ATC, the
major transport conglomerate in charge of railroads, ports, and river transport based on
TORs agreed with IDA; and
h) Launching of an inventory of basic education and health facilities in urban areas, and the
preparation of staff redeployment plans.
The adoption by the National Assembly of the laws on Petroleum and Privatization was a
condition of effectiveness.



32
APPENDIX B
CHAIRMAN'S CONCLUDING REMARKS ON COUNTRY ASSISTANCE
STRATEGY
I have noted the generally supportive comments Board members have made on the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy.  Executive Directors were pleased with the
restoration of Congo to an active status with the Bank Group. They welcomed the
emphasis on improving public resource management through public finance and public
enterprise reform, strengthening the country's production capacity through trade and
regulatory reforms, removing impediments to private sector activity, and developing
human resources and reducing poverty.
Nonetheless, they noted that the process of reform had just begun and that Congo
has yet to establish a track record of performance. Because of the high risks of the
situation, they urged prudence and flexibility in Bank assistance. The government capacity
to implement reforms has been identified by several speakers as the key to our lending
program over the next two years. They stressed, therefore, that implementation of reform
will need close and continued monitoring, as well as sufficient external support. The
proposed technical assistance to improve economic management and strengthen the
government's capacity to implement agreed reforms, especially in the petroleum and
public enterprise sector, is viewed as an important element in our lending strategy. In
response to some concern expressed by Directors regarding the use of IDA resources for
assistance to the petroleum sector, staff emphasized that IDA resources would be used to
provide technical assistance for restructuring and privatization of an inefficient public
enterprise, which is essential both for improved fiscal performance and efficient
development of the petroleum sector.
Speakers welcomed the proposed direction of economic and sector work and
adjustment lending, focused on addressing the constraints of the bloated civil service and
inefficient public enterprises. Due to the political sensitivity of civil service reforms, the
challenge is to reduce the size of the civil service while improving the government's
capacity to implement reforms. To strengthen the dialogue with the Government and to
prepare a new pipeline of investment projects, however, several Directors felt that ESW
should receive stronger emphasis, proposing in particular that a poverty assessment be
added to the economic and sector work program. In the proposed sector work on
agriculture, some Directors recommended that more of an accent be placed on measures
to improve supply response and diversify production. In the strategy for human resource
development, speakers welcomed starting the process with staff redeployment in the
ministries of Health and Education to improve social services in rural areas, which would
also contribute to civil service reform.









IBRD 28095
NIG.         (       ~~~~~~CENTRAL 
NIG                        AR CACN O     
CCAMEROON                                                                                              CENTRAL  AFRICAN   PEP,UBLIC
iNE                                                                                                                                  -j                                ,Ib8   
\       .   . i '  f    .                                                 . - . -'
~'GABON~ 
ZAIRE                                                                                                                                        B-,~
Oceun   t-    ,                                                CAMEROON                                              e    /
9   -A N G O L A         >                                                                                                                             -        D
Th. b-oo donri..  crN                                            mr,                                                                                                  ,
|   do -  i-o i.o.   o nd   IoY
on  IRis ,oop  do  no00,                                                        .                                ,1             '          .'                           I
n~~~~~piy  oo  *   por  of ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Ei
|    h. Wor/d fRook Groop.
SanoY  ofd amuny  territory.  - S  o o ,k
C.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y
E G O               r    >   1j  L  E   F
G      A-, B    0        N                            *-AND O
L Oko...Abol-
)> D,!t4-               0             Bmo        t                           JAMABALA               No     \                         CONGO
P,o,o'y Poved Roods
\/    \           _oss~~~~M-dpo.>   E             C; ):.         ij, /Me     A     ]>              -t                v      Reg-o C.p,t.1,
1.7 'X I    i    A                            \                                                                   <    /    > 1 = VIROn _ _   Pr,rnory Grone' -nd Eorth Rood,
Secon.dory Earth Roodr
5'   R  \  >   7  4m{,   ,      T ! '                                _{       /;>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--.--   Ra,Iroodm
L^                                                                  V                                                                t o    oooo    ' 'i    I7R.H-di,O lro
4   *t- fi/_ nlernoona   Ar rts
d~~~,b.              )~     Oh.r A,p-rtt
Noah   .   ~~~~~~~~~  Rlro~~~~~~~oL ~~~~~        ~~                                                      No-goble R-erc
-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
~~~~~d-    ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    -     -R.g-r B.undori-
-Inlerno- Bno-Rudre-
M.d,9-. K         oi0 Gef, _-R.. k.l.SHASo
A tlen t, c                                                      gH                                                                 mdO          /  S       r r    )4b-         '  S 2 /t0 50  100  150  200  250
POINTE      XZ ANGOLA   '                    <ordeIo                                                                                    KILOMETERS
NOIRE~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~r                                                                      0                50                100               150
c    Cr .ne Copdo                                                                                  0 Y;  -z    A                                          J I9LES
JUNE 1996









IMAGING
Report No:       15765
Type        ICR



