Doct of
The World Bank-
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6372-COB
MEMORANl)UM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INEnATIONAL DEVEOPMNT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECTJTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AIOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 10.0 MILLION
(US$100 MILLION)
TD THE
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
FOR AN
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
JURE 9, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-   6372 CG
Tfype: PR
Tbis document has a restricted distibudon and a
their official duties. Its contet may not otheun



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA FRANC (CFAF)*
WEIGHTS AND MEASURIES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB              -      African Development Bark
A3lP              -     The Congolese Subsidiary of the Italian Oi'  Company
ATC               -     Agence Trans-Congolaise des Transports
CCA               -      Caisse Congolaise d'Amortissemept
CFD               -      Caisse Frantaise de D6veloppement
CPI               -     Consumer Price Index
CORAF             -     Congolaise de Raffinzge
EU                -      European Union
FAO               -      Food and Agriculture Organization
GEF               -      Global Environmental Facility
iiJCN             -     World Conservation Union
NEAP              -     National Environmental Action Plan
NGO               -     Non Governmental Organization
OCB               -     Office Congolais du Bois
OCER              -      Office Congolais d'Entretien Routier
ONEMO             -     Office National de la Main d'Oeuvre
PE                -     Public Enterprise
PNDS              -      Programme National de D6veloppement Sanitaire
SITC              -     Standard International Trade Classification
SME               -     Small and Medium Enterprises
SNE               -     Soci6t6 Nationale d'Electricit6
UDEAC             -      Union Douaniere des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
WCI               -      Wildlife Conservation Intemational
*     The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French franc (FF) at the ratio of FF1 to CFAF100
The French fianc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECONOMIC REOVERY CREDIT
Borrower:                 Republic of Congo
amount:                   SDR 70.0 million (US$100 Million equivalent)
Iems:                     Standard IIDA terms with 40 years maturity
On-len
nern:                     Not applicable
gf Reum:                  Not applicable
Staff Aoorasal
No separate report
s document has a rsticted distron and may be-used by redpiens ol in Xth pancf o 
oW dotiz Its co s may aot orise be disdosod withm Word Dauthoriton.



- MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO TH EXECUTI  DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CONG3
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendatioia on a proposed
Economic Recovery Credit to the Republic of Congo for SDR 70.0 million, the equivalent of
US$100 million, on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years to support major economic
refonns currently being carried out by the Gevemment and to provide general balance of
payments supgort.
PART I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUIP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. INTRODUCTION
2.    Congo is richly endowed with tropical forests, mineral resources (notably petroleum),
and a generaly favorable climate. The country is highly urbanized, with 60 percent of the
population living in the largest two cities: Brazzaville, the capital, and Point Noire, the port on
the Atlantic Ocean. Congo is also sparsely populated: 2.5 million inhabi.nts in a country of
342,000 km', roughly the size of Germany. The physical and financial infrastructures, once
operational, have deteriorated to the point of constituting major constraints to the country's
potential. Until the early 1970s, Congo's economy's depended on timber exports and transit
trade -with neighboring countries. Since then, oil has dominated the country's economy and
finances.
3.   In 1985, a sharp terms of trade loss from the collapse of oil prices, combined with ill-
advised macro policies, dragged the economy into a protracted financial crisis, which successive
governments have not overcome despite the launching of two programs to address the mounting
economic disequilibria: a 1985 self-financed program, and another with the help of the Bank and
IMP in 1987. Due to insufficient political commitment, both programs failed to fully address
the key issues of a bloated civil service and reform of the major public enterprises (PEs).
Economic stagnation ensued, and between 1985-93 real per capita GDP declined by 20 percent,
public revenues declined sharply and external debts mounted quickly. The sharp contraction of
public revenues led to severe cuts in expenditures on social services, which in turn led to a sharp
deterioration of the kuntry's social indicators.
4.    Against this backdrop of econo ic and social decline, political transformations which
brought a democratcally-ected government to power headed by President Lissouba in August
1992 took place. Soon after the elections, however, serious confrontations between government
and opposition parties took place, forcing the President to dissolve the National Assembly in
November 1992. New elections were held in May 1993, but violent clashes broke out shortly
thereafter and for more than a year, the government's authority was in question and the National
Assembly could not dispense its responsibilities or discuss the government's reform program.
Since January 1994, the political situation has stabilized and all parties have now recognized the



-2 -
importance of political stability to implement an economic program with uretpolicy reforms
to arrest the economic crisis.
S. Following. the devaluation of the CFA ftanc in January 1994, the government presented
its macroecononic progam with stringent austerty measures to the National Assembly which
has endorsed it. Tthe main objectivec of te program are: stabiizaion of the economy after the
devaluation, return to a sustainable growth path, and a reduction of poverty levels. Obsevadons
coveng the first four months after the devaluation suggest that implementation of the
stabilzation phase of the govemnment's economic program has succeeded thanks to the
cooperation between the govemment, opposition partes, and labor unions. The Brazvile CPI
shows that general prices have only increased 13 perceut since the devaluation. The government
has established good communications with the labor unions and appears to have persuaded them
not to strike for higher wages to compensate for rsng pnces. Civil service salaries have bee
frowen at their pre-devaluation levels. The period since the devaluation is still too short to allow
for meaningful observations on supply response or fscal revenues.
6.   The Country Assistance Strategy presented below aims at supporting the goverment's
efforts to reduce the economy's dependence on oil and remove the impediments facing private
investors. Key supportig policy reforms to achieve the government's broad objectives may be
combined under th   groups: improvements in public sector efficiency, development of the
country's productive sectors, and satisfaction of social needs.
B. BACKGROUND AND RECENT PERFORMANCE
TH OIL BOOM AM BUST
7.    Oil wealth accelerated Congo's annual rate of economic growth from 2.8 percent during
1970-72 to 8.4 percent during 1982-85 and pushed its per capita income to the highest levels in
Sub-Sahara Africa. Since the mid-1980s, sharply decreased oil prices and a real appreciation
of the CFA franc, combined with accumulated errors of past economic policies, tapped Congo
in a protrcted economic and finanial crisis. The economy declined at an annual rate of 0.9
percent during 1986-89, expanding only at a modest annual rate of 1.7 percent during 1990-92
due to improved oil prices. During 1993, real GDP declined again at an annual rate of 1.5
peret.
8.    During 1985-93, the fal in oil prices caused a decline in government oil revenues by
78 percent and in total revenues by 58 percent. On the expenditures side, while public
investment declined by 92 pect, total government expenditures e ded by 28 percent,
during the same period. Subsidies on public utlities and a wide range of consumer goods led
to unreasonable social expectations which could no longer be filfilled. The divergent trends in
government revenues and expenditures, reflecting inadequate fiscal discipline, led to a persistent
budget deficit and increased difficulty in servicing intemal and external debts.
9.    The civil service wage bill has become the chief burden on the budget After the last
round of indiscriminate and politically-motivated recruitment (1989-91), the total public work



-3-
-force numbered about 80,000, of which 50,000 were civil servants proper. The rato Of civil
servants to population is one of the highest in Africa (1:25). Education and health woriks
represent about 50 percent of the civil service, for which the ratio of administative staff to
practitioners has become seriously imbalanced and the geographic distribution of staff
concentrated in towns at the expense of rural reas. Since 1991, the govemment has accumulated
growing arrears in the civil service wage bill, which absorbed increasing prportions of total
revenues: 66 pernt in 1991, 78 percent in 1992, and 97 percent in 1993. By December 1993,
the lag in paying civil servants had reached eight months.
10.  The ofl sector acounts for about 25 percent of GDP, 50 percent of government revenue,
more than 55 percent of gross investment, and 75- percent -of merchandise exports.The oil
prosperity of the 1980s enabled the State to dominate- productive and commercial activities
trugh a network of public enterprises. At the heart of the public enterprise network are six
strategic companies (petroleum refining; distribution of petroleum products; transport; electricity;
water; and telecommunications) whose inefficiency not only drains State budgetary resources but
severely constains economic growth, especially of the private sector. Since the late 1980s, the
PE sector as a whole has registered an operating deficit, which has grown from 1. 1 percent of
GDP in 1989 to 2.3 percent in 1993. In addition to poor management and low taffs, bloated
payrolls has been a major contributing factor to the inability of these PEs to perform adequately.
In relative terms, the ra4o of wages to PE gross revenues increased from 1I 1vcent in 1989 to
35 percent in 1993.
11.  The relative weight of oil in public finances, investments, and economic growth led the
authorities to neglect sectors where the Congo had histoncally had a comparative advantage. The
volume of timber exports declined to 50 percent of the 1970 levels, as a result of transport
bottlenecks and excessive handling costs imposed by the poorly managed state marketing office
(OCB). Sea, air and road links declined for lack of maintenance and the Congo lost its once
dominant positon as transit center for neighboring countries, including the land-locked Centrl
African Republic. The development of the agricultural sector, vital for the diversification of the
economy, was blocked by numerous factors, including deteriorated roads, high labor costs, and
a weak incentive framework for farmers.
12.  Production in the non-oil manufacturing sector, operating mostly behind non-tariff
barriers, remained at a vtual standstill in real terms. Agricultural output, which had expanded
at a healthy 5 percent rate per year during 1985-90, declined at 4.8 percent per year during
1990-93. The mining sector, dominated by oil production, was the only area of growth,
increasing by 6 percent per year during 1985-93. Services, traditionally the leading sector until
independence, was the hardest hit by the crisis, as it declined at 3 percent per year during 1985-
93. During the same period, per capita consumption in real terms declined by 37 percent, gross
national savings dropped from 30 percent to 2 percent of GDP, and gross domestic investments
from 30 percent to 15 percent of GDP.
13. Since 1985, relative price movements rendered Congo's economy increasingly
uncompetitive. Extenal terms of trade declined by about 47 percent and the value of the French
Franc against the U.S. dollar increased by 36 percent, leading to a significant decline in the
relative intel price of tradeables vis-a-vis non-tradeables. As distortions increased, Congo



-4 -
imported larger amounts of its food consumption from Zaire, across the Congo River. While
inoomes of rural producers declined, prices of public utlities and services as well as wage levels
in the government sectors remained unchanged. In 1991 labor union pressures brought about a
major increa  in the average wage rate (by 60 percent), which dealt a serious blow to the
country's already weakened fiscal position.
14.   As a percent of GDP, the current account deficit (excluding public transfers) increased
from 9.4 percent in 1985 to 19.8 percent in 1993. While export revenues collapsed, imports did
not fall commensurately and interest payments-on exteral debts increased sharply. ln 1985/86,
the government assumed that the fall in oil prices was transitory and continued to borrow from
abroad to finance consumption. The size-of extenWal debt expanded from $3.0 billion in- 1985
to $5.1 billion in 1993, -representing 142 percent and 215 per->nt of GDP, respectively. This
rapid accumulaion of external debt was largely due to growing arrears in servicing that debt,
including to multilateal institutions. In September 1991, Congo was placed in non-accrual statu:s
by the Bank. The interrupted Bank-Government dialogue was not resumed until mid-1993.
TME SOCIAL DIMENSION
15.   During the 1970s and 1980s, the government's economic policies were implemented in
the context of a comprehensive social welfare system, where the State was the main producer,
employer, and provider of social services. A system of basic health and education services with
good geographic coverage was put in place, which helped improve social indicators. However,
the capital costs of establishing these services were excessive, and the associated operational
costs unsustainable. As public revenues sharply contracted in the nrid-1980s, recurrent public
expenditures on social services were severely cut. Lacking maintenance and supplies, schools
and medical centers deteriorated over time, with adverse implications, especially for the poor.
16.   The decline in real per capita GDP by 20 percent during 1985-93 resulted in increased
levels of poverty, both in the urban and rura areas. While labor supply expanded by about 25
percent, employment in the fonmal sector increased by only 15 percent, thus increasing the
number of the unemployed. Unemployment among urban youth is estimated to reach as high
rates as 40 percent. Rural poverty increased because the migrants were mostly able men who
left behind women and children to till the land.
17.  Health Issues. Female mortality related to child birth is high: between 600-900 per
100,000 live births. Child mortality is also high (124 per 1000 live births and 96 per 1000 for
children under five). Malaria, tuberculosis and parasitic infections are common. Malnutrition
affects 20 percent of children (40 percent in some isolated areas). AIDS has a major impact:
between 7-10 percent of urban women are sero-positive leading to increasing child infection.
Orphans due to AIDS incidence are increasing in number. Failure in delivering appropriate
health services is due to a health sector work force which is rarely paid, poorly motivated and
badly deployed; a budget which can only equip and supply a few curative facilities, neglecting
primary health care; inefficient state agencies for the procurement/production of medicine; and
a cumbersome administrative structure.



5-
18.  EAuadon and training Issues. ribs sector's problems mirror those of healtb in terms
of budget, personnel management, equipment and supplies, and the dilapidation of its physical
plant. Internal efficiency is low. In primary school between 30-40 percent of every class are
students repeating or "tripling' the school year. Only 75 percent of entering students reach the
last grade of the six-year primary cycle, taking on average eleven years to do so. The
consequences are over-crowded classes, despite multiple shifts. Secondary education is equally
inefficient, only 20 percent of entering students obtain their baccalaureate. This log-jam is
attributable partly to under-qualified teachers and scarce pedagogical materials. University-level
instruction is generally poor with only small "islands" of quality due to donor assistance.
Instruction is sacrnficed to meet high social costs, notably student. stipends. Training has been
more seriously disrupted by tight budgets, as materas are totlly absent and sldlled trainers have
left for more remunerative private sector employment..
C. ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM AND DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
19.  In January 1994, a Congolese delegation visited Washington with an ouiiine of a reform
program approved by the National Assemnbly, on which basis the Declaration of Develooment
Policy was agreed with IDA (Annex VI). The Declmation confirms government commitment to:
(a) improving public sector efficiency through better public resource management and public
enterprise reforms; (b) strengthening the country's production capacity through trade and
regulatory reforms and removing impediments to prvate sector growth; and (c) developing
human resources and reducing poverty.
IMROVING PUBLC SECTOR EFFICENCY
20.   Public Resource Management. Fiscal adjustments and improved resource management
constitute the backbone of the government's efforts to reduce financial imbalances and restore
economic growth. The objective is to shift the ratio of primary fiscal balance to GnP from a
defiit of 13 percent in 1993 to a deficit of 5 percent in 1994, then to a surplus of 3 percent by
1996. The associated key measures include: (a) introducing tax and tariff reform; (b) adopting
wage restraint and civil service reform; (c) increasing non-wage current expenditures and
improving their allocation among sectors; (d) improving the programming and execution of
public investments; and (e) consolidating the management of the extena debt. The govenxment
has raised tariffs for water, electricity, telephone, and transport services as of April 1, 1994; a
measure is which should increase annual revenues by FCFA 4-5 billion.
21.   Tax and Tariff Rejbm. A key objective of the recently adopted economic recovery
program is to raise non-oil revenues from 13 percent of non-oil GDP in 1993 to 17 percent in
1996. In this regard, the government is implementing a comprehensive UDEAC-wide tax and
tariff reform and is improving the administrative capacity of the tax and customs administrations.
The tax and tariff reform includes the introduction of a value added tax, and the simplification
of tariff structures and reduction of rates, and the elimination of exemptions benefiting cerin
goods and/or enterprises. By October 31, 1994, the government will review progress made in



-6-
these areas, in preparation for implementation of stronger measures by January 1, 1995.
Finally, the government has reintroduced a tax on domestic consumption of petroleum products
which would increase annual revenues by FCFA 16 billion.
22.   Wage Restraint and CYvil Service Reform. The govemmesit has already taken a number
of decisive steps to reduce the wage bill and improve the efficiency of the civil sevce to
provide adequate public services. The govcrnment has targeted the retenchment of 10,00 posts
from civil service payroll in 1994, of which almost 8,000 by end May 1994, and will limit new
recruitment to maintain tile net reduction in civil service to 10,000 posts. The government will
freeze civil service wages, and restrict the wage bill to FCFA 122 bilion in 1994 (from FCFA
134 billion in 1993). Meanwhile, to improve the efficiency of the civil services, the government
has accelerated .the. implementation of the administrative and institutional reform program,
preparatory studies of which have been financed by the French Ministry of Cooperation. Under
this program, organizational and staffing reviews will be conducted in all ministerial departments
by October 31, 1994. Organizational and staffing plans will subsequently be developed on the
basis of these reviews, wihi the objective of adopting clear directives for laying off additional
excess staff, and the redeployment of others particularly in the ministries of Health and
Education (which constitute about 50 percent of the civil service). Success in retraining civil
servants, targeted for implementation on January 1, 1995, depends crucially on the availability
of external funding. Civil service reform is a priority area for future assistance to Congo.
23.   Non-We we Current Expenditures. In 1993, the wage bill absorbed 97 percent of actual
total revenues, leaving virtally nothing to other current expenditures, which are essential to
providing basic services to the population. The 1994 budget addresses this skewness, as it
reduces the ratio of the wage bill to a more manageable 50 percent of projected total revenues.
High or. govemment priorities are the services essential for primary and secondary education,
basic health, rural roads, and mainteriance of transport infrastructure. Budgetary allocations to
the ministries of Education, Health, Agriculture, and Transport and Public Works have been
increased in 1994 by an average of 15 percent, and are projected t increase further during 1995
and 1996.
24.   Pulic Investment Programming. Public investments, the engine of economic growth
during the oil boom years, were the most noticeable victim of the fiscal squeeze of 1985-93, as
they declined by 92 percent, with grave implications for economic growth and the development
of the private sector. The public investments that remained in the budget were less than
sufficient to stop the deterioration in the country's social capital. Practically all social
investments were halted. The new govremment's program seeks to reverse this trend. The 1994
budget is a step in the right direction, witi' capital expenditures programmed at FCFA 67 billion,
compared with an annual average of FCFA 8 billion during 1991-93. The share of the priority
sectors identified above has also been raised. The government has committed itself to strengthen
the process of public investment programming and monitoring through a series of guidelines to
be adopted during upcoming PIP reviews with IDA.
25.   Consolidatirg Exernal Deb; AMmigement. Government seeks to bring discipline and
transparency to its external debt management by strengtening the powers and capacity of the
debt management agency (Caisse Congolaise d'Amortissement, CCA) and vesting the authority



7-
to contract public debt in the Minister of Finance. The government has agreed to consolidate
manageme'~t of all contracted debts in tho CCA. It has also succeeded in rescheduling specal
debts  -a-vis some commercial banks with the support of a local subsidiary of an international
oil company.
26.   PublNi iWerprlse Reform. The increased losse and inefficiency of the major PEs have
finally prompted the government to disengage from productive and commercial activities through
the liquidation of the refinery (Coraf) and the transport conglomerate (ATC), p-ivatization of
the petroleum  product distrbution company- (ydroCongo) and telecommunications, and
introduction of private management in the operations of railroads, ports, electricity, and water.
The government has presented a privatization law for adoption by the National Assembly. The
law aims at establishing equitable, systematic and transparent procedures to govem the processes
of liquidating and privatizing PEs. An inter-ministerial privatization committee will be crmated
as of July 31, 1994 to oversee the process, prepare public offerings, and evaluate bids fori Es.
The govemment has allocated FCFA 15 billion in the 1994 budget to finance privatization
consultants and administrators as well as programs for displaced PE employees.
27.  Energy and Water. The action program to reform the downstream petroleum sector
includes the following steps: (a) end the current management agreement for the refinery by
September 1, 1994; (b) place administrator/management teams in the refinery and HydroCongo
by September 1, 1994, in preparation for dismantling existing structures; (c) end the refinery's
monopoly to import petroleum products, by September 1, 1994; (d) prepare to sell by tender or
lease the refinery, by end December 1994; (e) prep ue to sell by tender HydroCongo's
distribution network and transport fleet, by end December 1994; (f) prepare to sell by tender or
lease HydroCongo's storage facilities, by end December 1994; and (g) strengthen the capacity
of the Ministry of Hydrocarbons to monitor production, promote exploration, and regulate the
sector. The Societe Nationale d'Electricite (SNE) will also be reformed to increase its efficiency,
reduce its work force, and spin-off related services. The SNE will operate on the basis of a
management concession, as of December 1, 1994 and its capital will be progressively opened
up to private investment, starting in June 1996. The water company, 'Societe Nationale des
Baux", will undergo the same re-structuring as the electricity company, as of February 1, 1995,
with the responsible ministry assuming a regulatory role vis-a-vis the operator of the public
service concession.
28.   Posts and Telecommuications. In December 1993, the government decided to separate
the postal service from telecommunications. Under a new .egulatory code, to be developed by
Decemnber 1994, separate private operators would be sought to manage the basic services for a
two-year period according to an agreed "contrat-programme". Thereafter, the govemment
intends to re-tender the services. Telecommunications would be incorporated as a 'societe
d'economie mixe  with majority private shareholders while postal services would be provided
by a pubLic authority run according to commercial standards. New services (cellular, satellite,
'wirelesse, and package services) would be opened up to broad competition.
29.  Tlrao1t. in September 1993, the government decided to liquidate the "Agence Trans-
Congolaise des Transports' (ATC) which operates the Port of Pointe Noire, the railroad lining
Pointe Noire and Brazzaville and the river transport network which ties into the railroad at the



-8 -
inland Port of Brazzaville. At present, the Port of Pointe Noire makes a profit which is used to
subsidize other operations of the ATC. The Govemment has asked to use funds from the existing
TA project to finance an administator charged with the liquidadon of the ATC whose port,
railway and river services will become free-standing entities. Road maintenance is formaly the
responsibility of the Office Congolaise d'Entretien Routier (OCER), an over-staffed and under-
budgeted state enterprise, Government plans to liquidate the Office in November 1q94, and to
update its transport sector strategy, giving priority to rural feeder roads servir.g food-producing
areas and to the renovation and maintenance of strategic highways. The European Union, the
only donor currently active in the sector, has taken the lead in -calling for the establishment of
a donor group to assist in the updating of transport. strategy.
STI&NGTHENIG PPIVATE SECTOR DEVELPMENT
30.   Trade and Regulatory Reforms. The switch in economic management from centrlized
command to market economy involves numerous transformations in the institutions governing
sectoral performance. The government has identified the following reforms as being high-
priority: (a) limit the rcle of responsible jechnic.! mtnistries (r1linistere du tutelle) to regulation,
eliminating their former dominant role in operational mnanagemnent and developing new codes for
petroleum, electricity, water, and telecommunications; (b) implement UDEAC tax and customs
reforms introduced on April 1, 1994; (c) end Coraf s monopoly to import petroleum products
by September 1, 1994; (d) end the interventionist role of ONEMO in labor hiring and firing by
October 31, 1994, and transform it into a statistics office; and (e) fialize the liquidation of
Office Congclais du Bois (OCB) which holds the monopoly in marketing timber by October 31,
1994, and transform it into a statistics office.
31.   The government realizes that Congo's growth potential can be enhanced by economic
policies which are export-oriented and by allowing domestic markets for all goods and services
to function freely and with a minimum of government intervention. The government launched
some trade reforms in the context of the 1987 Bank-supported structural adjustment program,
which removed import licensing on all goods, quantitative restrictions on the importation of most
goods, and liberalized domestic prices of majority of consumption products. As ihese steps were
not accompanied by reforms in the regulatory framework, their impact on the operation of
domestic markets and resource allocation of private investors remained marginal. The recent
changes triggered by parity adjustment promise to have more far-reaching implications. A
simplificaS-n of the tariff structure has been introduced in the context of UDEAC reforms.
32.   Private Setor Development. Two factors constrain the development of the pivate sector:
rigid labor la . s and practices, and weak financial intermediation. The Office National de la
Main d'Oeuvre (ONEMO) intervenes in the hiring decisions and blocks the firing of workers
from enterprises. Saddled with non-performing portfolios and lacldng liquidity, the banking
sector has been in serious decline, which adversely affected its capacity to finance private sector
projects. Government efforts to promote the pnvate sector will involve several steps to address
the consmrnts identified above. Over the last year, the government has begun to consult
business associations on UDEAC and labor issues, and has made efforts to educate the unions
about the economic and financial crisis. As a result of these consultations, the interventionist role



-9-
of ONEMO will end in October 1994. In the banldng sector, the government has established a
financial committee to oversee the restructuring of the sector. Audits of all four banks,
liquidation of two amd privatization of the other two are high in the Government's agenda.
Sortng out of cross debts involving the governient and PEs wi1l also be settled as part of the
financial restructuring program.
33.   The Agriculture Sector. Even though agriculture contributes only I1 percent of GDP, 40
percent of the population live in rural areas. With FAO assistance, the government is
formulating a strategy which would: (a) ass women who figutre predominantly in agnculte,
and are responsible for 70 percent of food production; (b) slow de 4n tb. migratioi of men to
urban ars; (c) revive agriculture as a vocation and a credible source of employment and
income; (d) provide supplies and -trained personnel to prirary schools and health centers to meet
the basic needs of rural families; (e) allocate increased public investment funds to improve
conditions in existing feeder roads and build new ones, to transport agricultural production,
e-pecially foodstuffs to urban markets; ard (f) improve the incentive framework to iduce
private sector investors to take initiatives in plantations, ranching, fish-farming, forestry and
processing industries.
34.  Forestry. The strategy of the government is to reverse the recent decline in timber
exports, from 530,000 m3 in 1986 to 350,000 m3 in 1992, by removing the physical and
fmancial impediments. The privatizadon of the ATC w.ll have an immediate impact on exports
which could rise rapidly to about 800,000 tons (of which 300,000 tons plantation-grown
softwoods). By October 1994, government plans to finalize the liquidation of the Office
Congolais du Bois, the timber marketing agency whose inefficiency has had a negative impact
on the competitiveness of timber exports. The govemment introduced a one-time increase in the
royalties for 1994 in order to finance a separation package for employees. The Government nokV
seeks to promote sustainable forest development by encouraging private sector investments in
softwood plantation on the coastal savannah. The SheUl Oil Corporation has invested US$20
million in a 25,000 ha. plantation for which the first harvest is expected in 1995. Further re-
afforestation of this type could help the Congo maintain significantly higher level of timber
exports while ensuring that the natual forest is not over-exploited.
35.   The EnWironment. Through the Global Environmental Facility project, the government
aims at protecting the spaely populated hinterland which represents an important res'rvoir of
biological diversity. During 1993/94, the government has been cooperating with specialiid non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) such as the IUCN and WCI. The urban environment faces
problems of solid waste, drainage, sewage treatment and protection of water supplies. In
addition, the off-shore oil fields require special measures to prevent spills of toxic substances,
particularly as some of the older fields approach the end of production. Addressing these issues
is the Nation1l Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), which is in an advanced state of preparation
and has been discussed with a broad cross-section of the public, including local NGOs.
SOCIAL ISSUES ANM POVETY ALLEVIATON
36.   The government has decided to implement urgent policy measures aimed at: (a)
switching expenditures to key inputs such as materials, medicine, books and in-service traning;



- 10-
(b) redeploying and re-training personnel now overly concentrated in urban centers; (c)
developing moderate, progessve charges for services and supplies; (d) re-designing
procurement systems to obtain lower costs for medicine, books and other materials; (e) creating
labor intensive public works; and (f) establishing an action program for urban youth and
displaced public employees to test skills and provide training and credit.
37.  National Health Developmen Program. The Government has prepared the "Programme
National de Developpement Sanitaire"- (PNDS) which enjoys good donor support and
involvement. Key elements of the PNDS stategy are: (a) re-staffing and repairing the network
of primary health centers; (b) establisbing a system of referral to selected centers (which will
be better managed, staffed and equipped); (c creating an autonomous center managed on
commercial lines to procure least-ost drugs; and (d) worldng to improve personnel management
and decision-making at the ministry and regional levels. The PNDS introduces reforms in the
management of helth centers, in their repair and maintenance, and in cost recovery.
Implementation of PNDS requires as afirst step an inventory of basic health centers to establish
priorities for localities, and the Ministry of Health has already started in the two urban regions
of Brazaville and Kouilo (Pointe Noire), which contain more than 60 percent of the population.
38.   National Education Fomm. The Govemment's priority is the improvement of basic
education, focussing furst on urban areas. Measures include: (a) physical rehabilitation of
classrooms; (b) in-service training for teachers; and (c) making available cheaper schoolbooks
and materials, with an emphasis on French and mathematics. As agreed with IDA, an inventory
of BrazzaviLle and Kouilo area schools is underway. Rehabilitation, as in the health sector, will
employ SMEs, NGOs and local associations. In addition, a pilot program for skll testing and
re-taining, supported by CFD, is being implemented. It will improve the prospects of youth
and displaced civil servants to recycle more productively in the economy. Subject to the
availability of funding, the government plans to widen the progran to benefit SMEs in the
formal sector. The focus will be to integrate the "plans sociaux" of released PEs workers to help
them own and manage the spin-off of actvities of restructured PEs.
D. EXTERNAL ENVIRONMET
39.   Congo's economic prospects are affected by: world markets for oil and timber (Congo's
main exports); policies of neighboring countries (which affect Congo's exports and imports); and
the willingness of the intenational financial community to provide short-term assistance to
overcome the country's expected financing gaps for 1994-95.
40.   Oil. Oil is likey to dominate Congo's exports, public finances and investments well into
the future, and fluctaons in oil prices will continue to affect overall economic growth.
Congo's oil exports are likely to experience a major boost (60 percent) as the ELF-developed
Nkwssa field comes on stream in 1996. Other prospects are promising, with AGPI, Shell and
Occidental Petroleum interested in offshore oil explorations in Congo. Both factors bode well
for Congo's future revenue position, but may weaken the government's resolve to continue a
strict adjustment program; a major risk for the IDA assistance strategy, to be presented below.



- 11 -
-41.  l7mber, Congo's aitional export and its main source of foreign exchange trugh the
1960s, has become significantly less important in relatve terms because of the increased weight
of oil in exports and public finances, and in absolute terms because of unfavorable intemational
anrket trends over the last 20 years. As a result of the government's program to address the
constraints to timber production, and with stable real prices projected for the next two-tee
years, e   value of timber exports could regain the high levels of the 1960s, without harmng
the forest enviespecially as it focusses on softwood plantations in the coastal savannah.
42.  Policdes of Neighbofing couries. For years, economic interaction between Congo and
its neighboring countries has been an integral part of regional dynamics. Although the specific
natue of economic lins have changed over time, policies in neighboring countries have affected
the flow of gwds and services from and to Congo. Most recently, Gabon's decision to evacuate
its manganese exports only via Librevile has discontinued a steady source of revenue for Congo
from transit trade. The culprit was Congo's deteriorating railwys systemt which has also
adversely affected its timber exports, especially from the north. Had it not bee . for Cameroon's
decision to allow Congo's timber to pass thrugh, Congo's timber exports could have suffered
even more. Since Congo's proposed economic stategy would imply a liberalization of markets
and improvements in transport infrastructure, the nsk of negative changes in policies of
neighboring countdes would be mitigated.
43.  Fial &wernal Requirements. The intenational community's confidence in Congo
erded over the last few years due to the government's non-respect of its external obligations.
Congo has strted implementng a strong reform program and has shown financial responsibility
in the last four months. The period, however, is still too short for Congo to regain the
intenational credibility needed to mobilize the anount of intenational resources that would
ensure basic social services for its population and full servicing of its extenal debt. The key
fictor to ensure renewed access to international capital flows is the govemment's ability to
stabiize the economy and restore donors' and investors' confidence. The determination and
pace with which the govemment implements its proposed reform program will be decisive
factors in regaining donor and investor confidence, and thus a major factor in ensuring the
successfid realzaion of the government's development agenda.
44.   On baklnce, medium-term prospects with espect to the key external faors affecting
Congo's economy allows for a cautious oudook. Oil price forecasts are relatively buoyant, oil
production prospects are srng, and timber export prospects are encourgig. The devaluation
and return of political calm have induced renewed willingness among donors to provide financial
assistance to Congo. The main chalenges for a successful implementation of Congo's adjustment
progam remain, therefore, tied to its intenal situation as political developments affect the
Government's capacity to manage the necessary transformations to liberalize the economy.
E MEDIUM TERM PROSPECS
45.  Ite Government's stabilization and adjustment program, supported by an IMP Standby
Arrangement and the Credit presented to your consideration aims to: (a) accelerate growth of
real GDP, from 0.9 percent during 1990-93 to 5 percent during 1995-96; (b) raise domestic



- 12 -
savings in the non-oil sector to 14 percent by 1996; (c) reduce the ratio of cunrent account deficit
to GDP from 20 percent in 1993 to 14 percent by 1996; and (d) ensure a return to low inflaton
by 1996, compamable to the inflation rates recorded by Congo's trading partners.
46.   Congo"s potential in agnculture, manufacturing, forestry and oil should permit real GDP
growth of about 5 percent per annum from 1996 onwards. In response to the envisaged reforms
of the trade regime and reguatory framework as well as substantial new investments in oil, total
private investments in the oil and non-oil sectors are expected to rise from 17 percent of GDP
in 1993 to 27 percent in 1996. Public sector investments are projected to recover from less than
one percent of GDP (1991-93) to about 7 percent in 1996. These investments are expected to
be concentrated in the priority sectors of health, education, rural roads, and tansport. To
finance these investment level domesic savings would increase substantially -Pivate savings
would be stimulated! by the recovery of economic growth, the. improvement in the external trade
position, and by the improved incomes of domestic food producers. Public sector savings, as a
result of PE reforms and other fiscal measures discussed above, are projected to turn around
from a negative level in 1993 to about 10 percent of GDP in 1997. Although this may appear
to be an ambitious target, it is feasible in view of Congo's prospects for improved cash flow to
the govemment from the Nkossa oil field.
47.   Congo's 1994 external financial requirements are estimated at US$ 2.5 billion, including
financing to clear outstanding external arrears (US$ 1.9 billion). About 71 percent of these
requirements are expected to be financed from rescheduling arrangements under the Paris Club
(US$ 921 million), the London Club (US$439 million), the Brazaville Club ($180 million), the
socialist countries (US$ 125 million), and with suppliers of goods and services to the Congo
government without guarantees (US$100 million). About 5 percent of the requirements are
expected to come from debt initiatives that would cancel Congo's arrears to the Caisse Francaise
de Developpement (US$97 million) or by consolidation of debts to other institutions (US$36
million). About 22 percent of the financial requirements are expected to be coverel from fresh
money, whether in the form of project financing (US$85 million), or fast-disbursing program
financing (US$465 million). The latter is expected to come partly from France and pardy from
multilateral sources including IDA, AFDB, IMF, and the European Union. After taking into
account miscellaneous items and adjustment to reconcile claims, these sources would be
sufficient to close the gap.
F. BANK GROUP'S COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
48.  As noted above, Congo has been in non-accrual status vis-a-vis the Bank since September
1991. As a result, there has been no lending or fornml economic work since 1990. In 1993,
the Government reopened a policy dialogue with the Bank and as a result, our understanding of
economic de-velopments and short-term prospects has increased considerably. In January 1994,
a government mission visited Washington to present an action program for econonic and social
recovery approved by the National Assembly. This program provided the basis for the
Declaration of Development Policy with IDA and the Letter of Intent with the NMF. The
clearance of Congo's arrears to the Bank is a necessary first step for future assistance. With the
astance of the French Government, Congo has arranged for a bridge loan to clear these



- 13 -
arreas pior to Board presetation of the proposed Economic Recovery Credit. The duration
of the loan would be for a short period between arr clearance- and disbursement of te
proposed Credit.
ASSSrANCE OIJWflES
49.  While the Government has taken bold steps to implement the nessary reforms since tie
beginning of 1994, Congo's track record on sustained implementation is poor and the reform
agenda remains large. The proposed IA assistance strategy for FY94-97 focuses on supporting
the Government's reform progrm  in three areas: (a) improving public resource management
through public finae and public enterprise reforms; (b) strengthening the country's production
capacity though trade and regulatory reforms and removing impediments to privat sector
activity; and (c) developing human resources and reducing poverty. IDA will give particular
attention to capacity building and assisting institutions charged with implementation of the
Government's program. An expanded program of economic and sector work and adjustnent
lending focussed on addressing the constaints of the bloated civil service and inefficient public
enterprises constitute the key instruments for implementation of the IDA strategy. In addition,
portfolio perfermance will be used as a measure to trigger additional investment lending.
5c.  IDA will support the continuation of PE restructuring, economic liberalization, and
private sector development initiated under the proposed Economic Recovery Credit. PE sector
restucturing will focus on urgent managemernt assistance, with special attention to: cost-recovery
and measures designed to attract private investors; accounting improvements and realization of
audits and property inventories; development of plans to assist in the re-training and re-
deployment of staff; and preparation of tender documents for private offerings. Special
assistance will be provided to help with the liquidation of the oil refinery.
'1. The petroleum sector will continue to drive Congo's economy for at Least the next
decade. Transparency, an equitable legal framework and monitoring capacity are all important
elements of a successful strategy. Government has already moved toward a policy of greater
utapency and accountability in the sector. IDA will concentrate on assisting the Government
irt the development of a new legal framework designed to protect Congo's interests and promote
private investment.
5:t.  IMA plans to assist government in increasing the effectiveness of the health and education
systems. Civil service refk;rms supported by IDA will ensure that qualified personnel are
efficiently deployed. IDA will also support the National Health Development Program and basic
education by a phased, policy-diven imvestment program which will address urgent needs
identified by the ongoing inventories and put in place new polices in the areas of budgets,
persomel management, cost-recovery, procurement and maintenance.
53.  In addition to the macroecononuc and financial management issues facing the
Government, management of natural resources and a sustainable environment is crca to
Congo's long-run development which depends heavily on non-renewable resources (oil) and
forestry products. A first draft of a NEAP has been prepared by a national team, including
NGOs, and is intended to provide a framework for future environmental work, notably for the



- 14 -
preparation of a natural resources management project. The ongoing GEE project has made
good progress toward estabishing protected zones of bio-diversity in Congo's diffeet
ecological zones.
PORI1OL0  (NAGEMENr
54.  As disbursements to Congo have been suspended since 1990, there is no rect
experience with portfolio implementation. Two projects, focussing on PE technical assistance,
agriculture research and extension seivices, account for the US$20 million of undisbursed IBRD
commitments. Each of these projects is-expected to be closed or restructured during PY95.
During the period of suspended disbursements, the already weak implementation capacity further
deriorated, particularly with regard to procurement practices, government supervision capacity,
and delayed payments. IDA will assist government in organizing training in procurement and
in the simplification of payment procedures. Tendering procedures will also be modified.
Government has agreed with IDA that it will seek the services of qualified engineers from the
private sector to monitor execution of public works. A return to competitve bidding pracices
(until recently Congo has had to contract with fms able to pre-finance works) should greaty
increase competition amongst competent contractors. Given the small size of the portfolio and
its recent re-activation, no CPPR is planned before FY96.
55.   Despite Congo's recent failure to service its Bank debt, the Bank's exposure is low in
both absolute and relative terms. The Bank has made commitments in the Congo toting
US$307 million, consisting of US$232 million of the IBRD loans and US$75 million of IDA
credits. As of May 31, 1994, total debt held by IBRD and IDA was US$223 million. The
Bank's share of public and publicly guaranteed debt outstanding and disbursed (DOD), excluding
debt serviced by the oil companies, amounted to 5.6 percent at end-1993. The ratio of current
Bank debt service to exports of goods and services is projected to be less than 3 percent in 1995.
Despite the low level of exposure, Congo in not creditworthy for further Bank lending because
the country is one of the most heavily indebted countries in the world. At end-1993 the DOD
was equivalent to 215 percent of GDP. Extenal debt service in 1994 is estimated to be
approximately 133 percent of projected Govemment revenues.
ECONOMIC AND SECTOR WORK
56.   As pat of the renewed dialogue, IDA began to update its sectoral knowledge in seveaml
key areas, most notably in the petroleum sector where improved access to production agreements
and data have been used to develop a model for projecting oil production and revenues. An
April 1994 mission carried out an in-depth review of the public enterprise sector, producing
detailed monographs on each of the six strategic PEs together with action plans for their re-
strucuring. Missions in October 1993 and Apri 1994 have reviewed the financial sector,
leading to the first refonn steps (creation of a bank restructuring committee). Other important
aspects of the business environment, including labor market regulation, procedures for entprise
caion, and the commercial code, will be the focus of sector work in FY95.



- 15 -
57.  Implementation of the assistance strategy will be supported by a program of economic
and sector work designed to expand our knowledge in key sectors, strengthen the policy dialogue
with the Govemment, and provide the analytical underpinning for the proposed lending program.
The macroeconomic dialogue which was re-established in 1993 has led to a good apprecation
of the macroecononmc issues and related reform measures. In light of the Government program
and broad IA strategy outned above, priorities for future ESW include a public expendiue
review, a private sector assessment report, and reports in human resources and the productive
sectors with growth potential (agriculture, forestry and mining).
LEODING S TRK Y
58.   The size of the IDA lending program will depend overwhelmingly on the Govemment's
performance in policy reform. Given the recent renewal of the Bank dialogue with the
Congolese authorities and suspension of disbursements, for more than thee years, the
composition of the future lending program for Congo is particularly provisional. The program
would focus on support for public finance and public enterprise reforms, efficient growth led by
the private sector, and human resource development. The base case adjustment scenario
proposes a lending program for FY95-97 on the order of US$70-90 million, composed of one
or two operations per year, in addition to the proposed Economic Recovery Credit. This level
of lending would require strong macroeconomic performance and full implementation of the
progrm outlined in the proposed Economic Recovery Credit and subsequent adjustment
operations. Given the magnitude of the reforms to be undertaken and Congo's large financing
requirements over the next 2-3 years, as much as 50 percent of overall FY95-97 lending would
be for quick-disbursing adjustment operations. Likely operations over the period include
structural adjustment and economic management TA operations in FY95; and health, education
and financial sector TA operations in FY96-97.
59.  Failure to maintain an adequate macroeconomic prn>ram or to implement the policies
outlined in the Declaration of Development Policy would result in a shift to a low case non-
adjustment sceafio, where IDA lending would be limited to the social sectors and capacity
building efforts. Under this scenario, lending in FY95-97 would be resticted to US$40 miLlion.



. 16 -
TABLE 1:PROPOSED LENDING PROGRAM  FY95-FY97
Base Case. US$ 70-90 million    -
FY!9S:
SAC, Economic Management T.A.
FY96-97:
Health, Education, Financial Sector
T.A.
Low Case. US$ 20-40 million         1) Failure to implement the govern-
ment's economic reform program,
FY95:                               particularly failure to shift from a
Economic Management T.A.           primary deficit to a surplus and to
improve public resource allocation.
FY96-97:
Health, Education                   2) Failure to make satisfactory pro-
gress in the reform of the public enter-
prise sector, particularly failure to im-
plement the privatization/liquidation of
the oil refinery and petroleum distribu-
tion company.
3) Failure to make satisfactory pro-
gress in public procurement refonn.
NCAND MIGA
60.  As of April 1994, IFC had made portfolio and equity investments in Congo totaling $8.6
million. The sectors covered inoluded tourism and agro-industries (paper, sawnuill). IFC has
been involved in discussions over the last few months with international investors interested in
the development of Congolese business. The IFC plans to participate in the financing of the
Nkossa oil field, to be exploited by ELF. IFC could also play a valuable role in the privatization
of the strategic state enterprises, particularly in identifying potential inve.stors. The priority is
the downstream oil sector, scheduled for privaftzation in 1995.
61.  Congo became a member of MIGA on October 16, 1991. No coverage has been
provided to date, but preliminary applications are under review for investments in the services
sector and in the oil and gas sector.



- 17--
COORDINA1ION WITHTE    WSTMUMON
62.   Contacts with multilateral and bilateral aid sources have confirmed IDA's leadership role
in helping Congo overcome the difficulties inherent in restructuring its economy over the next
two years. Aid sources have expressed a willingness to contribute to Congo's financial needs,
if IDA provided the lead in establishing a progr a Design of the adjustment progam as well
as resolution of Congo's extemal debt service problems have involved close coordination with
the IMF, France, and the AfDB. In particular, IDA staff have worked closely with the iMP in
preparation of Congo's stabilization and adjustment program. The IMF Board approved a Stand-
by arrangement (SDR 23.2 million) for Congo on May 27, 1994.
63.   France, the African Development Bank, and the European Union are the major donors
invnlved in Congo. Aid coordination has been reflected in regular information exchanges, joint
missions, and discussion of future cofinancing. Following discussions in February 1994, France
has forgiven one half of Congo's debt to the Caisse Francaise de Developpement (CFD),
including all arrears, thus permitting CFD to resume operations in Congo. Coordination with
CFD and the French Ministry of Cooperation is focussed on privatization, financial sector
issues, civil service reform, and the social sectors. The AfDB has pre-appraised a US.$55
million operation in support of the measures outlined in the Declaration of Development Policy.
Board presentation is scheduled for late 1994, subject to clearance of Congo's arrears to the
AfDB. The AfDB has also indicated its willingness to cofinance with IDA a future adjustment
operation. The European Union has indicated its wUlingness to provide about ECU 16 mi:lion
in quick-disbursing support for Congo's 1994 program. Coordination with the EU is focussed
on the agriculture and transport sectors.
G. AGENDA FOR BOARD CONSIDERATION
64.   Several issues affecting IDA's proposed assistance strategy merit Board consideration.
First, although the political situation has calmed since January 1994, political instability could
return. Under these circumstances, the govemment could lose control of the political process
and with it of the whole economic reform process. This risk appears to have abated. The
opposition parties no longer contest the Government's legitimacy and are starting to work in
joint parliamentary committees to push in the direction of economic reform, a fact confirmed
by the Government's capacity to implement the initial measures proposed under the Economic
Reovery Credit. A second issue -is that the policy of wage restraint could be reversed in
response to rising political pressures. This risk is alleviated by two factors, the retrenchment
of civil service personnel and the dialogue established with labor unions to explain the crisis and
the refoma programs agreed with the IMF and IDA. Another major concern derives from a
possible increase in oil prices which could weaken the Government's resolve to continue on the
reform path. The fourth issue arises from the possibility of failing to achieve the ambitious
fiscal targets. This risk is addressed by the strong measures in the Govemment's program to
reduce the fiscal burden of PEs and to increase resource mobilization. Finally, the Board may
wish to discuss the need to support Congo's request for exceptional amounts of assistance in the
next 2-3 years to finance its program.



- 18 -
PART H. THE PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDJI
CREDIT AMOUNr AND HISTORY
65.   The proposed Economic Recovery Credit in the amount of SDR 70 million (US$- 100
nillion) would support the govemment's economic recovery progrm, summaizd above in Part
I, Section C,. and attached in Annexes VI and V11. The credit would help finance the imports
needed for economic recovery and growth following the recent devaluation of the CVA fanc.
The proposed credit would be disbursed in a single tranche upon effectiveness.
66.  The proposed credit was first discussed with the government during the visit to the Bank
in January 1994 of a Congolese delegation headed by the Minister of Plan and Ecoromy,
following the parity adjustment of the CFA. The meetings concluded with identifying a matrix
of comprehensive policy reforms to be implemented over a 12-month period, of which the
measures indicated below represent the first phase. Selection of these measures was guided by
their relative importance to prepare for the remaining reforms.
CONDMONS FOR BOARD PRESENTATION
67.   Prior to Board presentation the Congo Government has implemented the following
actions:
a)    Retrenchment of about 8000 civil service payroll posts, representing 10 percent
of the total. This retrenchment is accompanied by limits on new recruitment, on
the size of the civil service, and on the civil service wage bill;
b)    Agreement reached between Government and the management company of the oil
refinery to end the management contract by September 1994, thus clearing the
way for privatization or liquidation of the refinery;
c)   Increases in transport and public utility rates. This is the first step in future
adjustments to stem the hemorrhage of public resources, rationalize consumption
of public utilities, and prepare for the eventual privatization of the leading PEs;
d)    Creation of a commission charged with liquidating two banks and auditing two
others, to prepare for their privatization;
e)    Adoption by the Council of Ministers and submission to the National Assembly
of a Petroleum Law. The new law aims at flexibility and transparency in
agreements and balancing the interests of the government and the producing
companies;
f)    Adoption by the Council of Ministers and submission to the National Assembly
of a privatization law;



-19-
g)   Initiation of the selection of an administrator to overs e the liquidation of ATC,
the major transport conglomerate in charge of railroads, ports, and river transport
based on TORs agreed with IDA;
h)    Launching of an inventory of basic education and health facilities in urban areas,
and the preparation of staff redeployment plans.
68.   The adoption by the National Assembly of the laws on Petroleum and Privatization is, a
condition of effectiveness.
PROCUREMMT, DIS        W  ANM AUDITING
69.   Credit proceeds would be used to finance the foreign exchange cost of general imports
(goods and relevant foreign services), excluding goods financed by other bilateral agencies,
luxury goods, military equipment and other goods specifically prohibited in a negative list
defined under the Standard International Trade Classification (SITC) or equivalent classification.
In order to enable the Government to meet urgent foreign exchange needs, payments for imports
made not more than six months prior to the date of credit signature would be eligible for
reimbursement by IDA. A simplified international competitive bidding (ICB) procedure will be
required for purchases exceeding US$2.0 million. Procurement valued below the ICB threshold
should follow the standard procedures in the case of public sector purchases and established
commercial practices in the case of private sector purchases.
70.  Disbursements of the credit would be made against import. documentation received from
the Caisse Congolaise d'Amortissement (CCA) which would be responsible for the collection
of the relevant documentation and submission of loan withdrawal applications. IDA will apply
the simplified disbursement procedures for adjustment operations as outlined in the Vice
President and Secretary's memo dated June 8, 1992. All withdrawal applications will be fully
documented except for contracts less than $ 2 million equivalent which will be reimbursed on
the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). All documentation will be retained by CCA for
review by regular supervision missions and external auditors. Documentation consits of
invoices, evidence of shipment and evidence of payment. However, IDA will reimburse CCA
on the basis of customs certificates.
BENEFITS AND RISKS
71.   Beneffs. The benefits of the operation will be to accelerate the adjustment of the
Congolese economy to the new parity, improve public fimances, and establish the foundations
for future growth. The retrenchment of the civil service will reduce the wage bill by about 10
percent. The increase in public utlity rates (with marginal improvements in collection practices)
is expected to double State revenues on these services. Upon the privatization or liquidation of
the oil refinery, petroleum taxes are expected to increase ten-fold to FCFA 18.0 billion. The
bank restructuring commission, new petroleum law, and privatization law will all contribute to
establishing a finn base for the govemment's new orientation and open the door for further
structural reforms on an orderly, transparent, and systematic basis. The selection of the
administrator to liquidate ATC will ensure transparency and equity in the liquidation process.



- 20 -
In turn, liquidation of ATC should relieve constraints to sectoral growth and contribute to the
ongoing diversification efforts. Finally, the inventory of basic education and health facilities and
preparing staff redeployment plans in health and education will be the first steps toward the
reform of human resource policies and the identification of social investment priorities.
72.  MIsks. Four risks characterize the proposed operation: (a) despite the politc  calm since
January 1994, instability could return; (I) the policy of wage restraint could be reversed in
response to socio-political pressures; (c) international oil prices could- increase, which might
weaken the government's resolve to continue on the reform path; and (d) the ambitious fiscal
targets to restore growth in the medium term might not be achieved. The first risk appears to
have abated, in view of the emerging domestic political reconciliation following the decision of
the intemational arbitration -commission, giving the government a majority in the -National
Assembly. Opposition parties no longer contest the Government's legitimacy and are worldng
in joint committees to push in the same direction of reform. The second risk is alleviated by
two factors: the retrenchment of illegally retained civil servants and the dialogue with labor
unions to explain the crisis and the basis of agreements with the international organizations.
Significantly, after the devaluation, the general price level has increased by only 13 percent
through end April 1994. The third risk is partially alleviated by the uncertainties in intenational
oil market, which are unlikely to produce sharp increases in oil price- over the next 12 months.
The fourth risk is addressed by the strong reform measures to reduce the PEs fiscal burden and
increase resource mobilization.
PART III RECOMMNDATIONS
73.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 9, 1994



Annex I
Table I
Congo- Selected Indicators of Bank
Portfolio Performance and Management
Indicator                                                                  FY93           FY94
PordifS  Pedlam lne
Number of projects under unplerritaon                                         4              4
Average inplentation period (yearl /a                                         3             3.2
Average retigs
Development objectives lb                                                3              2.7
Overall stau   /c                                                         3             3.6
Percent of projacte rated 3 or 4                                             75             75
Development objectives /b
Overall statu IC
CencelWad during FY                                                          0               0
Disbursem ratio %  Id                                                        0               0
Disbursement lo (%) /e                                                       40             50
Memorandum item: % completed projects                                                        0
rated unsatisfactory It
Potfoao Afeneagement
Supervision resources (total US6.                                             8            21.0
Average supervision (USVlproject)                                            2.0            7.0
Supervision resoures by ocation Grn 9                                       100             100
Percent heequwrters                                                     100            100
Percent residewt mission
Supervision resources by rating category
tUSl/projecti
Projects rated I or 2                                                    3.0            3.0
Projecat rated 3 or 4                                                    6.0           18.0
Memorandum item: date of lestl next CPPR                                                   FY9e
a. Average age of projects in the Bank'* country portfolo.
b. Extent to which the prolect will meet its development obpctivet feee 0f    13.0. Annex D2. Preparation of implementation Summery (onn 6901.
a. Asserment of overall performance of the project based on the ratings given to individual aspect of project mplementation
(e.g., management. *vaiability of funds, compliance with legal covwents) and to development objectv  (see 00 13.06, Annex D2
Preparation of implementation Summary (Form 590). The overa statue is not given a btter rating than that given to project development
objectives.
d. Retio of disburement during the year to the undabured balnce of the Sank's portforo at the beginning of the yer: invetment projt only.
a. For all projocts compriing te  Banks country portfolio, the percentage diff<rence between actual cumulati  disbursements a  te cumultioe
diabursemente estimate as given in the 'Origijn  SAR/PR Feeastor, if the loan amounts have been modified, in the 'Peisd Forecwt. The country
portfolio diburement tag is effectively the weighted average of share in the totoa cumultve disbrsementf estmates.
fL For current rY only: from the OED databas.



ANNEX HI
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CONGO
Statement of IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(as of May 31, 1994)
Amount in US$ million
Loan or         Fiacal                      . .ancellationat
credit no.      year             Borrower        Purpowe         IBRD   IDA-  Undisbursed         Closing Date
16 loans and credits closed                                      200.9   75.0     -               6130196
L2860           80               Govt.           Public           15.2   -         4.0
Enterprise
Reform
L32560          90               Govt.           Agricultural     15.8   -        15.8            6/30/96
Extension
otal disbursed (IBRD and MDA)    267.74
of which has been repaid       59.26
Total now held by XBRD and IDA    232.75
Amount sold                       0
of which repaid                 0
Total undisbursed                19.8
List of Closed SALs and Secals
Amount in US$ million
Loan or         Fiscal                                              fless cancellations)
credit no.      year             Borrower        Purpose         IBRD   IDA       Undisbursed     Closing Date
L2866           87               Govt.           SAL 1           70.0    -        -               3/31/89



ANNEX M
Page 2of 2
CONGO
SUMMARY OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of April 31. 1994
Original Gross Amounts.
Pi cal                                   Type of                          Loan      Equity        Total
Year            Company                  Business                             --US$ _
1986187         CBl                      Tourism                         2.13        -            2.13
1985/86/90      CEB                      Tourism                         2.25        0.54         2.79
1982            Congo Pulp              Paper                            0.15        -            0.15
1981            Placongo                 Sawmi}l                         3.15         -2.0
Total                                                    8.03       0.54          8.57
Less reDayments, droppage, non commitments and writeoffs                  6.08       0.00         6.08
Net commitment held by IFC                                                1.95       0.54         2.49



ANNEX  III
Congo: Priority Poverty Indicators                                   iage  1 of  2
Moat Saw* PqL       ~WIUCMV 'om~p    Next
25-O        15-20       Yee" cSmub-             i           higher
4wit of           ye=          Ye        aI3r t      Sakaran      middle-      inoaw
In&easu90                                   (Mr*ag a - )  Agfica   icame         group
POVERTY
UP   povaty l                               caar                   ..         ....
Headcouut index                          % of pop.     -                                        -
Lower pov1y ha.                           loa                              .   .  ..             ..
ltadcxua index                           % of pop.                ..         ..
GNPpercupita                                 USS'                ISO         530        1,120        350         1.610       3,820
SHORT TERM INCOME IM)ICTORS
Ukkiluedm  wa g                          local ,                  ..         *..
Unsilled rur. wages
R a um  oftrade
Constumepiceindex                         1987-100                21          36    -    10..
Lower inoome
Food                                                              ..         ..          92.
Urban
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expaditue an basic sacil swicmc    % ofGDP                 ..          ..          ..
Grow onent ratios
,imay                                  %schoolagppop,            114         133          ..          70          100
?4S1.                                                           134          ..          ..          76          106
Female                                                          94           ..          ..          60           98
morwlity
hxlbamortality                         tboi livebirths          129         125         115         104           40          33
Under 5 modality                                       -          ..                    168         177           53          40
Inununization
Measles                                 % aegeoup                ..          ..          69          40          170
DPT                                                              ..          ..          71          35           74
Child malutrti (under-S)                                                     32           24           ..
Life eanecy
Total                                      years                44           48          S2          51           67          69
Femalshnales                               ratio               1.13        1.11        1.10         1.06        1.08         1.11
Toal ftWty ne                          births per wvnan          5.7         6.0         6.6          6.4         3.5          2. 6
Matentalmwoctry                        100.000lie                 .,          .. b.                          -      .
Population growth rate                       Infant mortality rate                        Primary enrollment
(percent>                               (thou. of libirtve )                            (prcent)
6**                                       250                                          120 T
5 -                                       200                                           :I0
4                                                                                       to
ISO
3                                                                                       60
t00
2                                                                                       40
1                    50                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
3W   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 03, 
mid 60s    tnid 70s                         mid 60s    mid 70s      MC                   mid 60s   nmid 70s     nvt
-   Lo            Inowe



-                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX IIlI
Congo: Ptesources And F4peditures                                  ae2 f2
AfM SmWeeqa4smru                       w
2S-S       JS.2O       r  W                                high.
Uski of           Y4071       Ye"       amo         S4114alea     .sidfi-    AMCgws
Indicalo                                  aea                  ayeag                  (WV)       Afia        nasu         INVu
IUMANts' RESOURCES
Population (skiw-199U                    thousands            1,066       1,30        2,350     488,932     773,203     632,037
Age dependency.ratio                        retko              o~1t        0.85        0,7         0.97        0.71.       0.63
Urban                                     %ofpap.              32.3        33.8        41.0        28,7         53.9        72.9
Populasiorivgow1h rate                    aiuwal%               2.4         2.9         3.2         3.0          1.7         1.1
Urban                                        -                 26          3.15        4.4          5.0         3.1         2.0
Labor force (15-64)                       tosn                  479         582         g01     203.947     302.442     243,141
Agriculhur                             %oflahorforo              666
Industry                                                         ii12                     .
Female'                                       -40                            40          39          37          32          30
FeOmale per 100 males,. 
Rural
NATURAL RESOURCES
Ame                                      tbou.siq,km            342         342         342      23,066      23,99       38.944
Density                                 pop. per sq. km         3.0         4.0         6.0'       20.0         31.0        16.0
Agricultural lan                        %oftandares            29.7        29.7        29.8        51.0         41.8       43.9
Changem agriulurallan                     annuul%               0.0         0.0         0.R          0.0         0.0         0.1
A.ricultural land undffr irrigation          %                    ..0.0                 0.0          5.5        12.6         8.3
FOrestsand woodlAn                       thou. sq km            217         215         212       6,651        5.396       7,705
Deforestation (ad)                        annua.1%              -.01..
INCOME
Household income
Share of top 20% of husholds            % of income              ,           ..
Share ofbofor 40% of housebolds
Share of bottom 20% of households                                            ..
RXPENDrTUR
Food                                      %ofODP                  .           .         17.4
staples                                      0.                                        7.7
Mae. " ilk ,dtees,eg                                                         .         5.9 
Ceraj impo"t                          thou. enowtim              17          36          94        7,838      44,418      35,976
Food aid in cerala                                                .           2           7        2,67        4,047        366
Food proukdiop- capita                   1979491-100            III         112          99          94          101        l08
Fertlizerconsuzption                        kg/ha               13.0       16.0         10.0        14.         94.2       120.0
Share ofagpiclwre nfl                      -a  DP.19.1                     14.5         12.2        29.2          ..89
Housing                                   %ofGDP                  .           .4.4
Avergehousehold size                 PeC o. per houseod .d
Urban                                                            .
Fixed nwestnmen housing                   96ofGDP                 ..61
Fuelandpower                              %ofGDP                  ...1.5
Energycomuimsption per capita           kg ofoil eqiv.           90    ~ 125            213         100        1,249       1,701
Housholds with clecracity
Urban                                 % ofbhousebotds            ....
Rural 
Trawrt ad conwdction%ofODP                             ..        -.6.9
Fowd investment UwjpM equipman                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~2.4
Total road lengt                           thou. km               .           ..
INVESTMENT IN HUMAN CAPrTAL
Healt
Acess to healt carm                          of pop.              .           ..
Populaton per physician                    Perswu             14,213      5,555       4,006
Populatin per nums                                              950         795132                               0
PopuIlationI perlhospital bed                 0.                              ..                    ,2           0
Acceesto safe wale                        %ofpop.                ..        38.0           ..        36.7
Urban                                        -                   .1.0                    ..        74.3
Rura                                         -                   .         9.0           ..        24.2
Oral rehydyration thraspy (sinder.)       %oce                     ..                     335 
Educatio
Gross asrolLmas ratio
Secoondary                            % ofucoo1-qsPqs            to          33            .I a                   56
Fannie                       -                   S           ..         .. ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 4
Pupil4eftbr rato: p*imaY               pupil per teachwr         60          59          66          39           2
Npil.eaharratio: secnazy                      029                            46          35           ..--
Pupilse  zngae                            %fut.                              92          39         .69
Repeaterrawe: pimazy                    %oftomalano11            26          26          36 
1lliteacy                             % ofpor. (sr lS+)           ...43                              S I
Female                               % offkm (or l+)             .            .56                   62
NeAnW    6=1rcknltw                      metbou." op.                         i           ..
Source Wortld Bank Internaional Econonmics Depsetmeni Awil 1993



ANNEX TV
Congo - Key Economic Indicators                           page 1 of 3
Projected
1989   1990   1991   1992   1993*   1994   1995   1996
National Accounts
(% of GDP at current market prices)
Gross Domestic Product      .100    100     100     100     100     100- 10-   100
Agriculture                        13      13      12      12      11               -      -
Industry                           38      38      33      32     35               -       -
Services                           49      49      55      56     53        -       -
TotalConsumption                     75      78.   86        82      85      73     63      60
Gross Investment                      16     16      20      17      19      34     34      34
Pfivate Investment                  14      14     19      16      17      25      27     27
Government Investment                3       2       1      1       2       8       8       7
Exports of GNFS a                    53      52      46      46      51     68      72      78
Imports of GNFS a                    44      45      51      45      54     74      68      72
Gross National Savings                12      8       0       4       2       8     18      21
Gross Domestic Savings                25     24      14      18      15     27      38      40
Memorandum Items
Gross Domestic Product             2377   2850   2644   2740. 2357   1389   1514   1688
(US$m at current prices)
Gross National Product              973   1007  -1040   1050    917    805    647    610
Per Capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real Annual Growth Rates
Gross Domestic Product                 3      1       2       3      -2      -2      3       7
Gross Domestic Income                 2       0       2       3      -2     -1       3       8
Real Annual per Capita Growth Rates
Gross Domestic Product               -1      -2      -2      -1      -5      6       0       4
Total Consumption                      2      -1      1    -17       -6   -_0       -21      4
(conffnued)
* Estimated
a. GNFS  goods and nonfactor services.



ANNEX IV
Congo - Key Economic Indicators                       page 2 of 3
(confinued)
Projected
1989   1990   1991   1992  399X    1994   1995   1996
Balance of Payments fUS$m)
Exports (GNFS)                     1250   1494   1213   1267   1191    939   1082   1312
Merchandise (FOB)                 1155 - 1393   1107   1189 .116    872   1004   1211
Imports (GNFS)                     1053   1269   1361   1239   1283   1030   1034   1207
Merchandise (FOB)                  503    518    495    438    497    541    58B    626
Resource Baance                     197    225   -148       28    -92    -90      48    105
Net Current Transfers                51     17      -5    -19    -3l       13    -13    -11
Current Account Balance (after grants   -63   -206   -523  .-345    439   -349_  -251   -211
MLT Capital (n t)                  -324   -155   -107   -252   -201   -268   -226   -224
Others (cinc. errors & omissions)   394    248    665    598    638    617    464    450
Change in Reserves b                 -8    113    -34       -1      2       1      13    -15
Memorandum tems
Exports (GNFS) (% of GDP)            53     52      46     46      51      68     72      78
Imports (GNFS) (% of GDP)            44     45      51     45      541    74      68      72
Resource Balance (%of GDP)            8      8      -6       1     -4      -7      3       6
Real Annual Growth Rates (1989 prices)
Merchandise Exports                  26      0    -17        5      1       1      5      15
Merchandise Imports                  -3      -8     -2    -14      22      12       3      4
Public Finance
(% of GDP at current market prices)
Current Revenues                     22     27      26     24      21      28     28      30
Current Expenditures c               28     30      39     42      40      38     36      31
Current Balance                      -6      -3    -13    -18    -20    -11       -8      -1
Capital Expenditures d                4      4       2       2      3       8      8       7
ExternalFinancing(net)e               8      6       8      10     15      18      15      7
Monetarv Indicators
M2tGDP (at current pices)            19     22      22      18     18      17       -
Growth of M2 (%O)                     4     18      -4      10     -5      12       -
Total Credit Growth (%/6)            14      -4      3       7     14       6       -
Private Sector Credit Growth (%)     -1.     2       2      -4     15      19       -       -
Price Indices (1989 =100)
Export Price Index                  100    113    108    107   -100        78     86      90
Import Pice Index    -              100    105    102    102       96      94    100    102
Terms of Trade Index                100    107    105    104    104        83     86      88
Real Eff. Exchange Rate (% change)   -1     -5       4       1     -5    -33       1       3
Real Interest Rates (%) f             6      8       9      10     10       -
GDP Deflator (% growth rate)         12      1      -5      -5     -5      27      7       5
CPI ( % growth rate)                  4      3       2      2       2      40      4       2
* Estimated
b. Includes use of IMF resources.
c. Includes cost of structural reforms
d. Includes net lending.
e. For 1994-1996 figures assume financing gap to be filled.
f. Discount rate deflated by CPI.



ANNEX IV
page 3 of 3
Congo-- Key Exposure Indicators
Projected
1989   1990   1991   1992   1993*   1994   1995   1996
Total Debt outstanding and         3936   4335   4630   4984   5071   4469   4738   4889
Disbursed (TVO) (USSm) a
Net Disbursements (US$mi  a          185    314      38    132    459    156    135         80
Total Debt-Service (TDS) (US$m  a   460.   611    381    504    477    532    277    291
(before rescheduling)
Debt and Debt service indicatofs (%/4)
TDOAGS b                             315    290    382    393    426    476    438    373
TDO/GDP                              166    152    175    182    215    322    313    290
TDSIXGS                               37     41      31      40      40      57     26      22
IRD exposur indicators()
IBRD Debt Serv./public Debt Serv.      5      4       7       5       5       5      9       8
Preferred Creditor/public Debt Senv.  11      8      14      10      11      1 1    10       9
IBRDDSIXGS                             2      2       2       2       2       3      2       2
IBRD portfolio share                  ..      .. 
IFC (US$m)                             ..     ..      2. ..           2
Loans                                  ..     ..      ..     ..       2
Equity and quasi-equity c              ..     ..      ..     ..       I
* Estimated
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed debt, use of IMF credits, and short-term capital.
b. XGS = exports of goods and services.
c. Includes quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



ANNEX V
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
-KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
Time taken to prepare:            3 months
Project prepared by:             Governent, assisted by IDA staff 1f
Identitication:                  February 1994
Loan Committee:                  June 3, 1994
Negotiations:                    June 6-7, 1994
Board Presentation:              June 28, 1994
Expected Effectiveness:          July 5, 1994
Closing Date:                    July 5, 1995
I   Tis rport is based on the findigs of the World Bank mission which visitd Congo in Apri 1994 to asi the
goverunat in the prparafion of the project and concurrently appaisw it. Mission mmbe  included:
M emJMms. Shetby (Task Manager); Wilson (CountWy Officer); Ba and So  (Public Enters); 1
(Upstteam PWtroleum); Thiam (Downseam  Petroleum); Monui (Telecommcations); Chnsten (Trmnsport);
Haythom  (Leal Councel); Badr (Research Asant). Additional coibuos inclde: Layec (Enezr,); Wabnit
and Onomto (Lega); Goxton (PIeleum); Mieau-K4ein, Jugger. and Laecq (Fuiace); Ahles (Principa
Economist); and (arcia (Staff Assistant). Mr. Luis Emesto Derbez and Mr. Olivier Lafoumcade are the managing
Division Chief and Datment Direcor, respectively, for the operuion.



ANINEX VI
Page l of 17
RPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
UNITY-WORK-PROGRESS
DECLARAT ON OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1.   The National Assembly of the Congo approved the Action Plan for Economic and Social
Recovery (PARESO) on January 17, 1994.  The Plan sets out man lines of Congo's
development policy, its principal objectives being:
- to restore budgetary equilibrium through sound management of public finances;
to stimulate a new start to economic and commercial activity through
diversification, with financing from private investment as well from the bilateral
and multilateral sources; and
- to improve the quality of life through guaranteeing equal access to education and
health services for the population.
2.   The Congo's economy is fragile. Public receipts from the oil sector are absorbed by
petroleum-linked debt in service, payments for which are deducted at source. Since 1990. the
Sta has not collected the tax on petroleum products and the loss of revenue is estmated at CFA
18 billion. Since the average cost of extracdon of Congo's crude oil is high and the price per
barrel has been in a downward trend, the State will be precluded from coUlecting any petroleum
royalty from 1993 until 1996. The result is that the Stame is no longer able to pay salaries,
which were suddenly and steeply raised in 1990, on a regular basis.
3.   The ramks of the public a tation were swelled in 1990 through a wave of
disorganimzed recruitment without regard either to qualifying criteria or the existence of budgeted
posts. Consequently many staff in the education and health sectors do not have the required
professional profile. This undesirable situation is aggravated by a skewed geographical
distibio of staff.
4.    The weight of salaries on the budget is made more burdensome by the excessive numbers
employed by public enterprise which not only fail to contribute anyt    to the Treasury but
actually engross heavy subsidies. For example, the posts and telecommunications company, the
PIT, is techically bankrupt, in stling contast to most Afn  tleco nicaons agencies
which are a net contributors to the Treasury. Almost all of the PMI's receipts are consumed
by its payroll. Despite many costly restuctuing exercises that have been carried out over the
years, Congo's public enterprises remain wholly inefficient.



ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 17
5.    Finaly, trsfer payments: student grants, the University, hospital subsidies and subsidies
to failing companies are a debilitating burden on the State.
6.    Congo is compelled to finance its budget through te accumulation of arrears and
petroleum-linked borrGwing. The country is unable to make payments on its commercial or
official debt which, at the end of 1993, together tDtaUed CFA 1,408 billion, equivalent to 170
percent of GDP. Disbursement by multilateral financig agencies have been suspended sice
1991 because of arrears which now amount to US$210 million.
7.    This fnaial crisis - which recalls those of 1972 and 1986 - is so grave that not even
the most urgent public investments, such as maintenance of roads, railways and ports, can be
made. The ifrastructure network is consequently in a state of severe dilapidation. The only
works carried out have been done under sole-source contracts pre-financed by the contractor.
8.    As to recurrent expenses, all sectors, but especially education, health and agrcultre,
have sufered from a lack of essential inputs (school supplies, basic drugs, improved seed).
Staff, disheartened by the long delays in paying their salaies, lack motivation.
9.    'he private sector remains mdimentary. This is largely ascribed to the fact that it is
owed Lrge amounts of arrears by the State. SMEs, which normally would have benefited from
public contracts for road maintenance or repair, have suffered. In the absence of price
liberalization, the agricultral companies have not prospered and the sector has been abandoned.
Forestry operations proceed at a snail's pace, throttled by botlenecks in rail and river transport..
Private road transport is prctically inexistent.
10.   The banking sector is going through immense difficulties stemming from  the
accumulation of extensive arrears and non-performing loans. Two banks, UCB and BIDC are
in need of restructuring and recapitalization.
11.   The judicial framework is poorly adapted to the private sector's needs, notably in that
it lacks a business code. Labor legislation, too, is ill suited to the needs of the economy.
I. REFORM OBJECMVS
12.   The Government is aware of these problems and is eager to get the economy back on an
even keel. At the beginnin of 1992, it laid the first foundations for reform and foresees taing
other strucur' measurs as laid out in the summary and timetable of actions attached.
13.   To achieve this, the Govenment undertakes to carry out, in parallel with implementation
of its stabilization program with the Internaional Monetary Fund, a program of specific actions
in the aes of: a) economic management; b) the civil service; c) public enterprises; d) the-
incentive framework for the private sector; and v) sectoral policies.
-2-



ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 17
DebtReuto
14.   The debt burden, including senrice and the   ulation of arrears, especially to the
multilateral agencies is an obstacle in the way -of a retn to internal and extrnal budgetaiy
eqiibrium. A solution to the problem of aers to the multatal agencies is essential for
renewed links with the international community.
15.  In concet with its principal finanial partners, the Govemnent is committed to finding
a solution for the reducton of its aars and the reupdt  of current service obligations.
The Congo seeks IDA eligibility as part of the debt reducton strategy of its development policy.
16.   Congo has just hired the services of a intemational consultng firm to elp ipove
managemenlt of the debt.
17.   Any debt obligations associated with the finning of projects will in fimre be signed by
both the Minister of Plan and the Minister of Finance as is stipulated in decree 84/1114 of
December 30, 1984.
18.   The CCA will be restuctured before June 30, 1994. CCA accounts will be regulaly
maintained.
imA  lifibili
19.   Congo requess that it be declared eligible for MA lending in light of the fact that the
level of per capita GDP has dropped significantly following tbe devaluaton and is unlikey to
pick up again for several years.
20. The Government bas hired consultants at its own cost to study the civil service lists and
the public payroll. To date, about 10,000 cases of irregularity have been identified and the
individuals conened will be separated from the civil service in June 1994.
21.  It is the Governmen's intention to pursue reform of the civil service not only by
rectying anomalies but also by redefming the role of the differt sevices with a view to
optming the way they are managed.
22.  In March 1994, 8,000 staff hired ireglarly in preceding years will be separated from
the civil service. Over the rest of the year, at least 2,000 more staff who have passed the
compulsoy reirement age or whose sitation is in some other iregular will also be dropped
from the rolls. Any new recritment will have to respect two restain: reducing the sizc of the
civil service by 10,000 persomel and limitig the wage bill to US$210 million in 1994. These
-3-



ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 17
meaues will allow the numbers of staff to be cut by 10,000 by the end of 1994.  The next
stage in civil service reform will be the prparaton of plas for reassigning staff and training
teachers and health workers (end September 1994).
23.  Reduction of the wage bill is currenndy under study and its rsl will also be applied in
the public enterpnse sector.
24.   The Govenment will seek the assisance of the World Bank: to enhance its civil service
reformefforts through an institutonal development project.
Publc Enprisej
25.    he Judicial Fam rk.   The Government, recogizing the need to promote the
private sector, has begun the process of disengaging from economic activities.
26.   A draft law on    _       is under prpration and will be prsented to Parliament for
approval at the end of March 1993. Similarly, a aetoleum sector law will also be presened for
Parliament's approval.
27.   A Imiemn        mmiste    will be created to monitor the privatzaton process. The
Committee's principal task will be to examine and send out invitations to bid and to evaluat
submissions in a rigorous and tansparent way. The   inistry responsible for the State's
portfolio will be sg d  so as to be able to act as a tecnical suppott strutue (Secretariat)
for the Commitee. Similarly the national cenre for projedons and strategic studies will be
provided with technical support to inrease its operational capacity.
28. Preparation of an electricity god and of a law relative to =ts and telecommunications
will be undertaken in the very near future.
29.   A study of cross-debts between cnprises and between enterprises, the State and the
bank wil be carried out.
30.   Tai.        Tariffs will be adjusted and threafter regulary ressessed in light of
changing iput costs and fiscal needs. lw estabishment of a new petroleum produt prce
structure and a suitable mechansm  foe aduing these prces is pariculaly important.
Appropriat memaues to protect thox sxion of society unable to pay the new prices will be
31.   F c   of Public Secor R        riur. With effect from February 1994, the public
investment budget will receive CFAF IS billion earmarlkd for to finane the costs of
retucI  the public sector, notably twe  associated with consultant and management
services and with socia plans.
-4-



ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 17
32.  The Government intends to seek financing from the multilateral donors to strengthen the
restuctring of the public sector.
TI. SCO   WTGE
The Petroleum Sector
33.  The privatization of the distribution and storage company, Hyro-Congo, and of the
refinery, CORAF, are the most urgent priorities for actions in the sector.
34.   Privatization of the sector is an Indispersable condition
for rehabilitation of public fnances. Fundamental reform of the petroleum sector will send an
encouraging signal to investors.
35.  CORAF. Because CORAF's operating costs are so high and its refining capacity is
isfficient to meet national needs, the asfer pnce of petroleum products to Hydro-Congo is
30 to 40 percent higher than the import price. One consequence of this situation is that taxes
and duties due to the State are at a very low level. This loss of revenues, compounded by the
very high transport cost of the Congo Ocean (CFCO) railroad and Hydro-Congo's very high
personnel costs, was esdmated at about CFAF 18 billion a year before the devaluation.
36.   The Government intnds to bring in a team of managers with a mandate and full powers
to prepare the pnvatization of both companies. The team will begin work in July 1994. Its
principal responsibilities will be to: take immediate measures to increase efficiency; draw up
balance sheets; and prepare the program of personnel reductions (social plan) and the
specifications for the privatization.
37.   The distribution networks and the tansport facilities are expected to be sold to the highest
bidder. The size of the market would suggest that there is scope for three competing pnvate
opertors. The storage assets will have to be sold off or leased. In either case, it wil be
mportant to guarantee new actors entering the market access to the storage faciiti  or alkow
the creation of such facilities.
38.   With respect to the refiery, the Government will examine the exising agmem  to swe
what immediate meaures can be taken to icrase efficiey, in partcular the  oduom of
salry costs and of numbers of staf, inter alia. The critrion of perfonce (end of Juy 1994)
after the retUcring  will be the degree to which parity with imported products is owwd.
At all events, a new agrement, either a contract of sale or an undertaking whereby dt  opror
assumes the commercial risk, will be in place before the end of December 1994. Gitw the
provisions of the exitig agreement, the advance notice to the operator should be gi. as  on
as possible.
-5-



ANNEX VI     -
Page 6 of 17
39.   The liberalization of imports will become effective (September 1. 1994) before the
network is privatized.
40.   MIarketing of crude oil will be carried out by a commercial company selected oa a
competitive basis.
41.   Sector nMonitorn  (in particular, production monitoring, promotion of prospecting
activities and the regulation and control of the sector) will be the responsibility of services within
the oversight ministry which will be stengthened for the purpose.
42.  In order to be able to these new responsibiities. the miistry will be reinforced through
a program of isttutional strengthening. The first priority is to upgrade the ministry's capacity
to monitor petioleum production, costs and finanial flows.  These data are essential for
projecting public revenue and hence for implementing the stabldization program agreed with the
IMF. They wi}l also be important tool for management of petroleum resources. The World
Bank will help in defining and meeting computerzation needs, in training personnel and in
settn up a permanent monitorng mechaism. The data which will thus become avaiable will
be regularly communicated to the two financing insdtions. Evenally, the existng World
Bank loan for assistance to the PEs will be used to finance a program for taining young
professionals with the object of providing the ministry with a pool of high caliber managerial
skills.
Eiectdc1it and the P[T!
43.   The Government will bring in consultant with a comprehensive mandate to restructure
these two PEs with a view to their privatization as operating companies, the State retaining
ownership of the assets. Telecommunications might be an exception to this; the early
obsolescence of investments due to a rapidly evolving technology suggests that the investment
in this particular case be assumed by the private sector.
44.   Inidally, the consultants will undertake specific missions to prepare the balance sheets
of the two enterprises and draw up the efficiency measures social plans to be executed in the
short term. Later, when the consultants are established in Congo, they will undertake
responsibility for routie managemen and the preparatory measures needed for privadzation
(specifications, invitations to bid).
Water and    nuMrt
45.   The following importan decisions have already been made concerning the restuctring
of the water and transport PEs:



ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 17
- the Agence Congowise des TranWorts will be separated into three branches: the
railroad will be handed over to a limited joint-stock management company; the port will
be also be managed by a limited joint-stock company; river tansport and ports will be
handed over to private operators and the assets sold; and
- the nationa water distribution company will be converted into an operating company
and banded over to a private operator; a holding company will be created with title to
the principal assets.
The Private Sector-                         
46. The Government attaches a high priority to establishing a framework of incentives for
the private sector and intends to take up with the donor community the possibility of a private
sector adjustment loan aimed at creating a favorable climate for the sector. Such finacing could
support implementation of the following measures:
- restructuring of the banidng sector and of the insurance and postal savings systems;
- strenhening of the judicial framework (business code, taining of judges);
- revision of existing labor laws; and
- budgetary, judicial and financial measures to facilitate the promotion of SMEs (savings
and loans, bank credit)
Ariculture and Forest
47.   Congo is one the Afican counties most highly dependent on food
imports. About 60% of the contents of average urban household's basket of staples would be
imported. The increase in price of imported goods will be keenly felt in the short term. A
Price Review Commitee will be set up to overlook the prices principally of basic necessities.
48.   The marn thrust of the Government's development strategy for the agriculure and
foresty sectors is defined in the PARESO program for social and economic recovery. The first
priorit is to i a    ricutral production, both for dometc consumption and for export,
though appropdra  tariff and pricing policies and through reodenting the State's efforts towards
activities in support of production, particlarly smallholder production (rehabilitation and
m aintee of mral service roads).
49. Research and extension wMill be given a new direction in direct response to the needs of
smaliholders. The State will be involved in productive activities only under certain definite
conditions (where the viability of the project in question is demonstrad, where the project has
-7-



ANNEX VI
Page 8 of 17
a priority within the PA SO program and where private initiative is lacking) as in the
followin:
- the development of market  tens in urban and per-urban areas;
- implementing measures to improve maketing.
-SHORT--TERM PROSPECTS
FOODCROP.S
50.  The Government*s ultimate goal is food security and self-sufficiency in foodstffs.
51. The fggodficit which will have to be made up is very big.
52.  On the assmption that present tnds will be accentuated in the wake of the devaluation
Of the CFA fan, food imports could pass the FCFA 150 billion mark in 1995.
53.   Such a situation would be itolerable for the country. To pr,Xtt urtUI leterioration
of food supplies, the Governmet is committed to tang certain incentive measu  and actions
aimed at:
- improving marketing, appropriate storage facilties, means of trasport and the
provision of credit to private commercial operators. To do thi . the Govemment will
take action to set in place the project for Support to Marketing and Local Initiatives
(PACIL) which is finaced with the help of IFAD.
- improve ural service roads;
- encourage activities which add value through processing of products. One way to do
ths will be through making processing equipment such drying appatu, maize hulers,
foufou mils, nut shellers, oil extractors and the like widely available; and
- eoura  better quality handling and processing of produce.
54.  All these meures will be backed up by instttional reforms to decntalize the State
appaatus and facilities through equitable allocation of resources between cental and local
institutions.
55.  The Govement requests that the ongoing World Bank-finnced Agricultural Extension
Project (La. No. 3256-CB, US$15 millions) be reoriented to focus on producton areas na to
- ~- 8 -



* . . ANNEX VI
Page 9 of 17
urban centers, in particulat the Kindamba project zone and the "Green BeIts"). To meet
growing demand for food crops, the establishment of projects in agriculturJ areas, with support
from other donors, will be encouraged.
Research and DevSlopmt
56.   Agricultural research themes will focus on better land resource maagement through crop
rotation, integrated crop and livestock farming, use of fertilizers and mechaization.
Extension
57.   The Government intends to address the problems of inadequate and weak regional
extension services. The aim will be to improve the extension system, bringng the producers
and extension agents ito closer association so as to ensure that the technirSa advice given is
adapted to real needs. The pilot operation financed by the World Bank will be redesigned.
Achievements to date, which principally have resulted from the FAO Husbandry Extension
Project will be maintained and strengthened.
AMricultral Credit
58.   Credit for rural areas will be strengthened folowing an in-depth study to be carried
out as part of the bankdng sector restructuring exercise.
59.   Smallholders and private producers will be encouraged to raise poultry as part of the
effort to meet the national meat deficit. Paricular emphasis will be laid on poultry raising near
to urban centers like Brazzaville, Pointe Noire. Dolisie, Nkayi and Owando. Locally available
materials will be used wherever possible for construction, equipment and feed so as to keep
production cost down and so keep mard  pnces competitve. The Governmaent will endeavor
to resolve the main constan  - esseially to do with feed and marketing - which are preseny
impeding development of poultry production.
Hoofe -Stock
60.   The Goverment will examun3 msim  linked to efficient follow-dtrough on the
privatization of State-owned ranches. Smalklder cattle and pig husbandry will be stared up
-9.



ANNEX VI
Page 10 of 17
igdin and state interventdon will be limited to support activitie such as training, credit for
veteiriy prodcts and the lke.
MED}UMI TERM P1aQtECTSl
61.  The Goverment attaches importe  to encouraging traditional fishing to make the
greatest possible contribon to natonal nutritional eds since, over the short term, meat will
be more expesve. Regular nventories, active supervision and protecion within the framework
of regional agreemen  ad ope procedures for  ting fising p its ar ways in which
industi fishing can be made more orderly and its contribution to public vene be increased.
The sectr has been more or less neglected up to the presen.
62.  The results of the elimination of OCC's marketng monopoly in 1988 did ot meet
expectations because pontial entrants to the markt lost inte   under the combined effect of
ffan world prices and overvalued cu rency. As a consequence, coffee and cocoa production
went into free fall.
63.  Government actio is neded to redres thi si on; speciicaly action aimed at:
-srting up the African Development Hank-financed extion project again once it bas
been re-evahluted; and
- encouraging smallholders to go back into producing coffee and cocoa.
64.  Over tIe  g mm it should be possible to redre  the imbalane betwee urban ad
ral income leels and to give new impeW to the agriculal sector overall. Ooc effet of
bringing rual and urban iwmes more into better balace could be a lesseng of the pm
-which urban famie nOw feel from their rlatives m rural areas who, generally sekng, live
in very deprived condidons.
The .r E    Subs
65.  After petoleum, wood prodvts are the Congo's most iportant export, ear_ag CFAF
15 bilion a year. With ATC's diminishing taport capacity, log produ       bt boe
progessively declining: from 530,000m3 in 1986, to 350,O000 in 1992, a decrea  of 34 
- 10 -



ANqNEX VI
Page 11 of 17
To inurease production and improve the sitaon of the forestry subsector, the Governmen wl
carry forward a series of actions which have already been srted and which iclude:
- elimiation of OCB's monopoly - OCB has been converted into a stastical service
within the Ministry of Forests and Watr; and
- liberaliation of the rai and river tnort systems,
66.  The Goverment intens to pursue actions aimed at developmg forestry production. The
goal is to reach a level of production of about I million me by the year 2000. The measures
envisaged to reach this goal are:
- restuctring of the subsector (privatization, liberalization of investm, etc;
- incentives in fiscal policy;
- measures to improve the efficiency of the transport network which remains a bottleneck
impeding the extraction of wood from the North;
- a campaign to promote interest in the Congo's forests and to identify possible parters
and markets;
- revision of the forestry code; and
- pursuit of rational forest development policies, including forest inventories of the North
and South Congo regions.
67.   The Govemment will also continue its reforetation efforts, planting Limba and Okoum6
in the Chaillu massif and Mayombe where forest areas where these hardwoods bave been
skimmed off and by plating rapid growth species such as pine or eucalyptus as protection
aginst savannah e hment.
The Roads Sector
68.  The State is anxious to protct its extensive investmnts in infrastructure. Nevertheless,
the 1994 mainte e budget is only about CFA 2 blion  The first priority in assiging this
limitd amount will be maintence of nral roads along which agricultural produce is moved.
Maintenace work wi be conutd out to SMEs and hiring and payment procedure will be
modified to faita  their involvement.
69.  The Office Congols d'E    in Rouiaer (national road m enance agency) will be
elminated in favor of a new administve stuc    which will assume esponsibilit for road
network pbmlin, nance pm           ig and thnal supervision of roadwors. OCER's
- 11 -



ANNEX VI
Page 12  of 17
equpment could be liquidated and sold to civil wos ompaies. T    overmet wil- dot
a master roads pln to clarify what futur ivestmes wil be.
70.   The procurement prcedures for selecig th companies to purchase OCER's equipme
asses must be transarent. The Governmen is requestig the assistance of the World Bankc i
formulating these procedres ad in trining the stff -who wi apVply them.
7-1.  The Government is wan to create the condidons for a new st  in ight industry and
ardsanl acivity whose products will be now be more competitive give. the rise Mi the pnrce of
imports after the 50 percent devaluation of the CFA. The State will give preference to activities
which cmbine value added to local resores with employment of labor and a-ological
value added. Mechanics, metal working, cermics and woodwork are such activities.
72.   Other sorts of actvity which could benefit are shoe-making, soap-making, preserves
made from local fruit and palm oil refining.
73.  Reinvigorating the private industral sector would lead to a growth in emplom  and
an improvement in product quality through consumer presure - a necessary precondition for
the creation of a regional export market.
74.   To create conditions favorable to this new sta will rquire that the bank follow an
enlightened policy of making credit available to the companies concerned, a lbeeralization of the
labor code and an easing of the exist  procedues for company formation.
The Financial Seor
75. Immediate measures are called for in the banking sector. A Pttee for Bwk
Restructunn will be set up with aid from BEAC. The banks will be a ted with BEAC
assistance. The former BCC will give way to a new bank with maiority pnivte capital before
the end of 1994 and the BNDC winl be liquidated. Instaidotnal strentening ad financial
restuctuing plans will be drawn up for UCB and BIDC as will a plan for estruct   the
isurance sector.
SIL THELSQcLDIMON
76.   The development of human resources is a prime concern of the Government's saegy
for medium term economic growth and diversificadon.
- 12 -



ANINEX VI
Page 13 of 17
77.  The quality of health and education services has deteriorated seriously in recen years
because of the imblance betwe  resources avaiable for iputs (school supplies and extbooks,
drugs and medical supplies and staff taiig and upgading) and those avaible for salaries,
which& absorbed practically the ente budget. Te devaluation offers an oppornity to modify
budget allocations in favor of non-saty items (supplies, drugs. etc.). The impact of these
measures will be very positive at the classroom level, particularly in tihe priry schools, and
in health centers where significan increase in the quality of services offered can be expected.
78.  The 1994 budget will be modified to incu de    new allocations.
79.   Recruitment will be strictly limited so that the level of fmincig for non-salary items can
be maintaied. New needs wil be met though staff redeployment and triig.  hver the
medium term, the imbalance between adminitratdve staff, of whom there are too many, and
technical staff will be corrected in such a way as to reduce progressively the number of non-
qualified staff. Reform in the education and heath sectors is closely tied to reform of the civil
service.
The Education 
80.   There are imbalanes in Congo's education system.
81.   Sudent numbers have grown constantly over the last few years. This has gone hand-in-
hand with a decline in the quality of tching and is a  for just as much by an increase
in the repeat rate extending the time spent in school as by demographic factors.
82.  General schooling has absorbed the mainimpact of the student explosion. Vocational and
tchical training accounts for only nine percent of the teaching corps and only 13 percent of
all students follow scientific or technical curricula.
83.   The share of education in public expendiure has decreased while resource allocation
within the sector has become increasingly skewed in favor of the secondary and teray level
student grants which absorbed CFA 9.0 billion in 1991, equivalent to two thirds of the budget
for basic education, where 80 percent of the students are.
84. Having established these facts, the Government now intends to define an overall program
for the reo    on of the educatonal system based on the fudamental options laid out in
PARESO.
85.   Priority will be given to pry education. In concrete terms, this means that a new
balance, in favor of the primay sectr, will be struck in the budget shares going to each level
of education. This will allow for mprovement in the areas of school supplies and teacher
traing.
13 -



ANNEX VI
Page 14 of 17-
86.   Overall budgetary constraints are such that the education sector budget can hadly be
increased. For this reason, the new balace in allocation of resources between education levels
is very likely to be at the expense of secondary and higher education. To attenuate this negative
effect, existing regulations will be more rigorously applied, notable those relative to the number
of repeats allowed.
87.   Secondary level education will also be given priority through the openmg of specialization
course in the thee final years. inructiotn at- ts stage should for the large part be vocational,
that is to say it should promote technological development.
88.   Technical triing in the higher polytechnic insitutes will be encouraged. Particular
attention will be- paid to maintenace and management; the Government has set up a
Management Institute whose prime role will be to foster a national nagemen culture.
89.  Improving the quality of teacher taining will be one of the principal actions the
Government undertakes. Courses for teachers in-service to improve their level of genenl culture
and their teaching skills will be included in these actions.
90.   Satdent grnts policy will be redesigned with two objectives in mind: to ease the
budgetary burden on the State; and to redirect grants towards priorty lines of study. Grants for
suies overseas should be the exception and reserved for unus ualy gifted students with a view
to constituting a small but indispensable group workdng in research and development.
91.  Taken together, the measures aimed at improving the way the education systm works
will reduce the cost to the community of university education.
92.   An important measure to be taken before the beging of the next school year 1994/95
is to modify the specifications of the school text books (which are bought by the students'
families) so as to bring the cost down.
93.  Tne Government may seek suppot for these reform measures through an Education
SECAL.
94.  Implementaton of the expendiue redtion and PE resucing measures will have an
impact on employmen. To auenuaze the effect of these measures, the Government,  ough
measures to promote SMEs, wll encouge   deve    of labor-intensive works, notably
the estblisment and maintenance of collctive-leve units equiWped to operate in the roads,
refuse, health and education sectors.
95.  M'e pivadzation of the PEs wUi crae new business opportnites thmugh sub-contcs
for new connections or repairs, in he wow.  elcticity and telephone systems as wel as in
- 1.4 -



ANNEX VI
Page 15 of 17
96.   The resumpdon of public investment program beginning in 1995 will also have a
beneicial effect on employment.
97.   A priority task for 1994 will be to establish an inventory of repair eeds for priry
schoolrooms and heath ceners in urb   MMnt and for urban infrastructure maintenance needs
(gutters, sidewalks, Wee planting). These repair works could constitute a labor-intensive
program for which donor financing could be sought. Implementation of the program would be
put in the hands of an ad hoc executing agency staffed with persons recruited from the private
sector (on the model of AGETEP).
98.  InI reli,     other initiatives would be promoted, in particular for the development
of ral roads, rice paddies, classrooms, health posts and wells. Priority would be given to pern-
urban areas where it is particularly desirable that foodcrop producton and livestock farmig be
startd again.
IV. THE  ENV1RONMENT
99.   The Government is committed to fmalizing the National Environmental Action Plan
before April 30, 1994.
100.  The plan will provide the framework for development of Congo's natral resources. TI
Goverment will seek World Bank and other donor financing the Natural Resources Managment
azect whose main objectives will be  stitution   ent ng in particular as concerns
forestry, fiing and hunting supervision and the completion of prionty studies (forest inventory
and the establishment of wcrld heritage sites).
101.  The Governent, with fancial assistance from the Global Environmenta Fund and from
the World Bank, will guarantee that these sites are protected.
V. 3x EZl2LEL JOERQQBM
102.        With the assistane of the World Bank, various adjustment operations (PAS. ani
sral adjsmett programs in the public enterprises, human resources and private secta) to
help the balance of payments situation will be prepared in 1994.
103.  Congo's fiial constraints make it imperative that the sectrs most likely eo engender
growit be precisely areted and that the eficiency of investments be improved. Theiove_nt
program should cotfom  to the following crteria:
- a substanial and icreaing share of invesment expendire should be eanmnkd for
the productive sectors and for education and health services;
- the conten of sectoral programs should be redefined in light of dE  =aoe's
developmentsrat  and msucha way tatactivitieswhichsupportproductia    g a vc
- 5 -



ANNEX VI
Page 16 of 17
precdnce and direct intenmion by the State be exclusively limited t those ca
where the viabity of the projct bas been demonstrated, wh    the- project has a high
priority in ot economic recovewy program and where there is insufficient privat sector
interest. The Sta  will cOwnctrat it effonts on reform, in partcular, reform of the,
public entrprises sector;
priority should be given to  rasucture maintenance. in this context, the Government
wliqdate the Office Congolais de gEntreien Rouder (OCER)- before September 30,
1994; andv
-w  project should corro  closely to macrow-econOmic and secal objectives.
Economic recovery efforts and fte preservaton of ecisfting assets should be stressed.
New projectS should be based on sound feasibility studies which clearly demonstrate their
cost-effectivene. For 1994, the Govement has decided to give special priority to
mintennce 0of the naions'  entia ifrasture.  FCFA 2.0 billion have been
eardarked for maiten   work on highways and rural roads. Moreover, the 1994
investment budget will contain supplementry allocaons to address the ugen needs of
the education, health and agriculural sctr  i the latter cas wi  mphasi on
foodcrop-related needs. In collaboration witL the World Bank and other donors, te
Governmnt will adopt a reise strategy aimed at the medium- and long-term viability
of the palm oil subsector.
To improve the effciency of ivestments, the highst priority will be attached to preservation
of existg investr ats. The National Master Plan for transport whichcovers roads maintenance
and all transport .odes (rail, road, river and air) as well as ports and airstrips will be drawn up
before June 30, 1994.
- 16 -



ANNEX VI
Page 17 of 17
104. M  CoWo has bote wi1 ad the capaci to implement the reform and reabibUitaton
mems on wch tho success of its developm   poy depends. A new govermen body to
mplment and monior policy rezfom wil be esablshed under the leadership of the Head of
GovunweuL  The M t  reponsibe for the EonM  wll be responsible for guiding the
re    to macro-economic equilbrium and Xt soctol reforms envisged.
Febma 2, 1994
14bW
ner of Finance                             Minster of Planning
'an ;t  Budget                             and the Economy
Nguila MIn         NKOMBO                  Cl6ment Mouamba
- 17 -



Page 1 of 8
MATRI OF MrU-CW&L MEA= ANDrB
Gver^d Mearures
T,wm*slon of reqmet regaing potea debt reducion
operaton to Wrld Bank                                                Febr-afy is,199
Remowv  of 8,0ftQ offias from te c}l serce indisg 2XOW
by years ed                                                        Febra-y 28, 1994*
ReIton of labor legihlion                                              Ja  31. 194w
Inclsion in 1994 invemet budget of CFAF J5 bilion to cowr
the cons f e   ur uring the public sector  F.bruary i5, 19Q
Public Mnsapries
A4jdumens of public wility rates
(water, ekecricity; tekphone transportation)                       Februy 2S, I1W9
Indclsion of gowrment cownsption i budget
h?ater; elecricit; tekphone; transponation)                          February 28, 1994
Application of gowrment coswnption reductlon plan
(partiuarly telephone - access to long-distance)                        Apil 30,1994
Adoption of privation law by te National Assembly. March 31, 1994
A*rengshening of powes of Gowrnment Portfolo Direaorate
in MbA%7 of Planning and EcononW,                                      March 31,1994
Creation of inte,ninierial monitoring commitee
reponible for prpaing sedfiaionfor te selecton
of inte*n managers for SNE; SNDE; ATC, ONPT,
HYDROCONGO; CORAF                                                        J    31, 1994
Study of cross debts btwmeen enseprkses, and betwee
emesprises, the banks and the Gowunet                                     July , 1994
Ewsentkd elements of SAL   ration with World BaLk



Ab=N Vil
Page 2 of 8
Quarterly beginning on                                                   March 1, I94
Hiring of a consutant specializing in monitoring oil
operions (production;reflning; rnaing of cwde
and refidproducts) as well as ftnaneialflows                             March 1, 194
Hiring of oilcomputer consukant to design and install
a computorWed monitoring system and to train the staff
of Oe DO of Wrocarbony                                                   March 1, 1994
Adoption of law contining the Hdro ons  de                            Mardi 31, J994**
Defnition by the two consulants of the human and
physicat resources needed by the DG of Hydrocarbons                    March 31, 1994
Prparation by the two conswuants of the terms of
reference and specfications for the seection of
a consultingflm. to carry out the petroleum audit of
prodsuion companies, and issuance of call for renders                   March 31, 1994
InstaUlaon of a computerized monitoring system
In the DG of Hydrocarbons                                                June 30, 1994
Selcton of the office to cany out the petroleum
audit                                                                  June 30, 1994w
As part of the Public Investment Program (PIP), petroleum sector chapter:
Callfor tenersfor an emeerny interventon
eam for the management of the two enterprises
(CEO. depameutal directors, etc.) CORAF and, HYDROCONGO.                Mardi 31, 1994
Reponsibilities:
-      dayto-day management of sector (l(W authoriy)
-      closing balance sheet
-      stfdevelopment plan
-      colection and payment to the Dreasury of the
taxes on petrokam prouts
-     prparation of specfications for privatizanon/leasing
-     preparation of social glans
-      d4fnition of tasks and requirements of the superisory
nmnistry
Sdection of consultant to ikpkmep the restructuring                      JAne 30, 1994
FWst ierventions (special missions) of the teamfrom                        Juy 1, 1994
?hee intrwenons wi;focus on the evaluation of
the assets and lbiities of the two enterprises



Page 3 of 8
(HflROCONGO and CORAF), preparation of the socia! nlan:
mrgenc m easures re=ardinR efficiency and cash flow.
Establishment of emergency intervention teamfor the
management of the two enterprises (CORWF and HYDROCONGO)                 September 1, 1994
~~A I'Refinervly
Mailing of letter of notice' regarding the existing agreement               - March 1, 1994
Definition of_ e i_en_measure_s (particularly d&wnsizing
and wage costs) and implementation                                          March 31, 1994
Evaluation of performance criteria for efficiency measures by                 July 31, 1994
Team intervention
Establishment of closing bclance sheet; evaluaion
of assets; and development of social plan                           August 31, 1994
Preparation of speciflcationsfor the takeover of the refinery
and issuance of callfor tenders                                  September 30, 1994
Cancellation of existing agreement                              September 1, 1994**
Liberalization of imports of petroleum products                 September 1, 1994**
Signing of sale or leasing agreement                             December 31, 1994
Takeover of refinery (sale or lease)                               January 1, 1995
nZOROCO_N-GO
Jntervention of mtanement team
Jnventory of assets; establishment of closing baance sheet;
developnent of social plan; preparation of pnvatiza-
tion specifications                                                 August 31, 1994
Appointment of management team                                  September 1, 1994*"
Issuance of calisfor tendersfor service stations
and transportation equipment                                     December 31, 1994
Signing of agreements with companies taking over
distribution                                                     December 31, 1994
Issuance of colfor tenders for storagefacility



AN-NEXI
Page 4 of 8
assets                                                        September 30, 1994
Slgning of agreemenuts (etwork and transportation,
and storage)                                                   December 31, 1994
ELWWJCI7Y SECTOR
Calfor tenders to provide an emergency
intervention and interim management team                                   April 50. 1994
Inteni  geriod fo,r inferim manaRers:                                        9194 to /S
-Objedives:
-      day-to-day management (fuil authorityj
-      improve production/distribution/marketing operations
-      improve recovery rate
-      establish closing balance sheet
-      prepare staff development plan
-      prepare investment plan
-      prepare specificationsfor selection of operator
-      define regulatory role of assets management company
(societe de patrimoine)
-      prepare social plan
SeUection of consultants                                                   July 31, 1994
Special missions                                                    beginning August 1994
Appiication of social olan                                          beginning March 1995
Revision of electricity law (privatization; assets)                     December 1. 1994
Issuance of calfor tenders for seletion of
operator                                                                     July 1, 1995
Selection of private operator and establishment of
assets management company (socdft. de patrimoine)                       December 1, 1995
WATER SECTOR
Cration qf operating and assets management companiae                   February Ist, 1995
Preaaion of management contract (assunption
of mmcid  risk by operator; term of agreement 5 years)
and issuance of call for tenders                                           May 31, 1994



-ANNEX 1L
Page 5 of 8
POSTAND TELECOMMUNCATIONS (PM7) SECTOR
Preparaton and adopion of law on the PT                                   March 31,1994
- create telcommunications operating company
- ceate autonomous Post office
-   enure cpetition in cellular and cordless subseaors
- privatizationframework
Issuance of call for tenders for team of consultants
for interim management and restructuring of sector                         -May 31 1994
Restructurine eriod.                                                        9/94 to 12195
Recriment of emergency intervenwion and management team                 September 1. 1994
RaWonsibilities:
Improve day-to-day management
Increase collections
Prepare specifications for the privatization
of telecommunications and the management contract
for the post office
Prepare social plan
Prepare investment plan
Specl!. "issions                                                beginning Jul/August 1994
-       wEValuation of assets/liabilities                                August 31, 1994
-      sDvelopment of plan for treatment of postal debt
and Sa&ings Bank depositors                                      August 31, 199[?J
Establlshmen of team                                                    September 1J 1994
etuauring period:                                                           9/94 to 12/95
Applcation of social plan                                          beginng Jawumy 1995
ssuance of callfor tenders for seleation of
takover company                                                         September 1, 1995
Signing of agreement wvith takeover oma                                December 31. 1995
Post O^fce
Defnition of perfomnance contract for post office and
suance of callUfor tendersfor selection of management group            Stember 1, 1994



AWNEX!
Page 6 of 8
Reus9Mrant veriod:                                                         9194 to 12/95
- e*abliih competiton in parcel delivery subsector
Signing of agreement for management of post office                    December 31, 1995
MANSPORTIAON
Development of master plar for transport sector                           June 30,1994
Issance of a for tenders for manageme  contract
for r(ikra4 (assumption of commercial risk
by operator)                                                              April 30. 1994
Signing of agreement                                                      July 1, 1994**
LibeWization of management of river transportation                        April 30, 1994
Signing of agreements                                                    July 1. 1994**
Creation of porn management company                                       May31, 1994
Signing of agreements                                                  August 1, 1994**
ROADS SECTOR
Adoption of road mainteace budget (CFAF 2 billion) ./                 February 28, 1994
- priority to be given to network serving agricuhural areas
Provisions (budget law implementing decree) to encourage
panicipation of small- and medium-sized enteiprpses (SMEs)
in road maintenance                                                   February 28, 1994
Involvanent of private operators In road maintenance                      already begun
RoganiWion of the Congolese Road Maintenance Office (OCER)
(new roles: progrwmming and survision)
of maintenance)                                                      November 1, 1994**
g subjeato new cost estimates
FINANCIAL SECTOR
Creaton of restructuring conmittee (BEAC/Fi:ance/Plnng)             Februamy 28, 1994#
(Letefom Minslder of Finance to Governor of BEAC)



-AMNE  VIt
Page 7 of 8
Development by commite of planfor seknement of
govenun  amars to banks/,fnancid institutions                             April 1, 1994
Completion of UCB and BIDC audit by C0BAC                           September 1, )994*
The following RiaL   are to be prepared by end-December 1994:                      **
ieive  liqudaion of BCC and creation of
another bank with majority privae capital
Liquidation of BADC
Finwial restruuring of UCO and BIDC                                    Janamy 1, 1995
Development of insurance resmucturing plan                              January 1, 1995
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
knplementation of price protection measures for essentialfoodstuffs    January 31, 1994
Reformulation of 1994 budget to give priority to food crops          February 28, 1994
Prioi financing of:
-      projects for the production of import-substitution
food crops (Kindamba and "market garden belt,
Nari valley and Ewo zone), particularly rice
(3 harvests possibl), fish-breeding, and
small rwninants
-      rural roads for transport of products
-      e~tension and technical services (development/production)
in production zones
-      supply of inputs (seed, small tools)
-      technical andfinancial support te SMEs in maintenance
of rural roads
-      idem SWEs production/processing agricultural products
in areas near urban  ner
Clajication of sttUS of 3 rice-processing plants and
evalution of assets                                                     March 31, 1994
Issuance of call for tenders for takeover of rice-processing plants  Date to he detemined
Reuicturing of IBRD exension projec to focus
financal resources on Kindamba JFIA  project                            March 31, 1994
World Bnk seetoral study                                                 May 31, 1994
Dewdoment of invstment program                                       November 30, 1994



Page 8 of 8
ENVIRONMENT
Approval of PNAE (National Envronmental Action Plan)
by the Minister of the Enironment                                         April 15, 1994
7rasmission of PNAE to World Bank for comments                            April 30, 1994
Twusmission of World Bank comments to governmew -                         May 15i 1994
Approval of PNAE by Counil of Minisers                                  June 30, 1994**
World Bank mission - PNAprepmpauion of natural resource
management project                                                       April/May 1994
Inventory offorest resources                                            January 1, 1995
HUAN RESOURCES SECTOR
&examination of lves  offinandng of nonwage budgetary
items (medicine; texbooks; supplies; professional development/
retraining) and deteminaiton ofappropriations                       February 15, 1994W
Measures to protect key input prices, e.g., supplies;
priority medicines; prophylactics...                                . Febnruy 15, 1994**
invtory of needs for repair of classrooms and health
cters in urban and adjacent areas                                       May 31, 1994*4
(To be assigned to SMEs; associations; NGOs - labor-
intensive work)
Eitablishntg of medianism for contract approval
and mnaaganent                                                            June 30, 1994
mplemtaton of heaeducatoa sff training and
redeploymnt pas                                                        September 1,1994
Ppratlon Of eduation/healh n ent program                              Novmber 30. 1994
Woaratwn  of manieance program for health centers,
prina  classroonm, and priority medical equipment                         Aprl 30, 1994



