Report No. PIC642
Project Name              Congo-Economic Recovery Credit (ERC)
Region                    Africa
Sector                    Non-sectoral
Project ID                CGPA567
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Plan and Economy (MPE)
Date PID Prepared         June 16, 1994
Project Board Date        June 28, 1994
Country Background and Adjustment Programs
Oil wealth accelerated Congo's annual rate of economic growth from
2.8 percent during 1970-72 to 8.4 percent during 1982-85 and pushed its
per capita income to one of the highest in Sub-Saharan Africa. Since the
mid-1980s, sharply decreased oil prices combined with accumulated errors
of past economic policies trapped Congo in a protracted economic and
financial crisis. During 1985-93, real per capita GDP declined by 20
percent, public revenues declined by 58 percent, and external debt
increased by 70 percent. As a result, public expenditures on social
services fell drastically, which led to a serious deterioration in the
country's health and educational facilities.
Against this backdrop of economic and social decline, political
transformations brought a democratically-elected government to power in
August 1992. However, serious confrontations between government and
opposition parties took place shortly thereafter, and occasional
violence broke out during 1993. In January 1994, the 50 percent
devaluation of the CFA franc coincided with the return of political ca.
The government presented its macroeconomic program with stringent
austerity measures to the National Assembly which has endorsed it.
The main objectives of the program are: stabilization of the
economy after the devaluation, return to a sustainable growth path, and
a reduction of poverty levels. Recent observations suggest that the
stabilization phase has succeeded thanks to the cooperation between the
government, opposition parties, and labor unions. Prices have increased
by only 13 percent since the devaluation and the government appears to
have persuaded the labor unions not to strike for higher wages to
compensate for rising prices. Civil service salaries have been frozen at
their pre-devaluation levels.
Objectives of the Proposed Credit
The Project supports the government's program of economic
rehabilitation mentioned above. The accent has been placed on
implementation of reform measures prior to Board presentation, since the
Bank suspended disbursements to Congo in September 1990 due to the
country's inability to service its debt to the Bank. In September 1991,
Bank placed Congo in non-accrual status. The reform measures fall into
three categories: improving public sector efficiency, promoting private
sector growth, and developing human resources.



To improve public sector efficiency, the focus has been on
increasing budget revenues, reducing public expenditures, and
restructuring public enterprises. The measures to raise transport and
public utility rates and end the oil refinery's management agreement
would increase non-oil revenues by about 22 percent in 1994.
Retrenchment of the civil service would reduce the wage bill by 10
percent. The liquidation of the transport conglomerate in charge of
railroads, ports, and river transport would reduce public transfers and
subsidies by 8 percent. To promote private sector development, measures
implemented include: establishment of a banking restructuring commission
to liquidate two banks and prepare two others for privatization;
adoption of a new petroleum law; and adoption of a privatization law. To
develop human resources, measures implemented include the launch of an
inventory of basic education and health facilities in urban areas, and
the preparation of staff redeployment plans.
Previous Bank Assistance and ERC Financing
Prior to the suspension of IBRD disbursement to Congo in September
1990, the Bank had two projects with undisbursed commitments of $20
million: a public enterprise technical assistance project, and an
agricultural research and extension services project. Since the
suspension, the two projects were frozen and no lending or formal
economic work took place. In 1993, the government reopened a policy
dialogue with the Bank which, in collaboration with the IMF, assisted in
preparing and implementing its economic recovery program. Given the
deterioration in the percapita GNP, Congo became eligible to draw on IDA
resources in June 1994. Following the clearing up of Bank arrears and
the lifting of its non-accrual status on June 28, 1994, IDA approved the
Economic Recovery Credit for $100 million, which was disbursed in one
tranche upon credit effectiveness.
Environmental Impact
The project has no direct impact on the environment. As a pre-
requisite to Board presentation, however, Bank requested that the
National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) be completed by the
government. The government has completed the NEAP in a timely manner. A
forest management program financed by the Global Environmental Facility
is presently under implementation, to assure that increased activity in
the forestry sector does not result in environmental degradation.
Poverty Category
The project has no direct impact on poverty alleviation. It is
likely to have an indirect impact, through improving growth prospects
and expanding employment opportunities. Moreover, the inventory of basic
education and health facilities and preparing staff redeployment plans
in health and education will be the first steps towards reforming human
resource policies, identifying social investment priorities, and
limiting further deterioration in social welfare.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
-2-



1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information based on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



