rv
CREDIT NUMBER 26J7 COB
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic Recovery Credit)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF CONGO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated           Z1   '      , 1994


﻿%REDIT NUMBER 2435 COB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 I9     , 1994, between THE
REPUBLIC OF CONGO (the Borrowei# and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a Declaration en
mati&re de D6veloppement, dated February 2nd, 1994, from the
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies
designed to achieve adjustment of the Borrower's economy and
equitable social development (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program,
and requesting assistance from the Association in the financing of
urgently needed imports required during such execution; and
(B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Association has decided in support of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.   The  "General  Conditions  Applicable   to
Development   Credit  Agreements"  of   the  Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement.";
(b)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to


﻿-2-
the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(c)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "SITC"  means   the   Standard   International   Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986); and
(b)   "CFA Franc" and "CFAF" mean the Franc de la Coopration
Financi&re en Afrique Centrale, the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent   to    Seventy   million   Special   Drawing    Rights
(SDR 70,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,1995 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borroprer of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to


﻿-3-
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 1st and July 1
commencing July 1, 2004, and ending January 1st, 2029. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on January 1st,
2014, shall be one percent and one quarter of one percent (1,25%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent and one half of one percent (2,50%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the


﻿-4-
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall submit to the Association
monthly reports on the status of implementation of the Program and
review such reports, and the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program with the Association at the request of either party.
(b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices, the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-5-
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent   auditors   acceptable    to   the
Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish   to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records and accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or   cause  to   be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and   accounts    reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other   documents)    evidencing    such
expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and


﻿-6-
(iv)    ensure  that such   records and accounts are
included in the annual audits referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the National Assembly shall have enacted a Code de
Hydrocarbures, satisfactory to the Association.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan et de l'Economie,
charg6 de la Perspective
B.P. 6464
Brazzaville
Republic of the Congo
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIPLAN                        5294 KG
Brazzaville
Republic of the Congo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                         248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
The REPUBLIC OF CONGO
By /A/d44-
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /V, Al.,Lc       K A.x
Region4 V e President
Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of! the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
required during the execytion of the Program and to be financed out
of such proceeds.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by
notice to the Borrower:
GroUR           Subgroup       Description of Items
112                --          Alcoholic beverages
121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured; tobacco
refuse
122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525                --          Radioactive and
associated materials
667                --          Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked or
worked
718             718.1          Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), nonirradiated for
nuclear reactors
728             728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
worked


﻿- 10 -
GrouR           Subgroup       Description of Items
897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch cases)
and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971                --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower, excluding, if the
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country, expen-
ditures in such currency for goods supplied from.the territory of
such other country;
(c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 70,000,000 may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
January 12, 1994;
(d)   expenditures for goods procured under contradts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent;
(e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
(f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption.
3.    Withdrawals   for  expenditures  under  contracts   for  the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $2,000,000
equivalent may be required by the Association upon the basis of
statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost more
than the equivalent of $2,000,000 each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
(a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Adverti .ng
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical   journal   of   wide   international
circulation; or
(iii)    a notice to local representatives of countries
and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
that are potential suppliers of the goods
required."
(b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."


﻿- 12 -
(c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
(d)   For  fixed-price contracts, the    invitation  to  bid
referred tc in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(e)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
paragraph 1, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no standard bidding documents have been issued
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally   recognized  standard   forms  agreed  with   the
Association.
2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or less shall be awarded:
(a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Association; and
(b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation comparison of quotations obtained from
suppliers  from  at  least   two  countries,  except  that  direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Association may be used
where considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds


﻿- 13 -
of the Special Account, such copies together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and
3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect thereof,
such documentation and information as the Association may reasonably
request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such
contract.
5.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 4 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATIO.
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


﻿-;00
~4E
i -I
m                   1,ö Mmi                                 i N -mm
7 - -
L 1
1


