Report No. PID7776
Project Name                     Argentina-Sustainable Fisheries (+)
Management Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           AF, SE
Project ID                       ARLL57459
Estimated Project                Cost:   $6.5 million
Expected Loan Size               $5 million (Learning and Innovation Loan)
Implementation Agency            Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock,
Fisheries & Food
(SAGPyA)
Date PID Prepared                April 1999
Projected Appraisal              June 7, 1999
Projected Board Date             NA
Background
The fisheries sector in Argentina is currently faced with a choice between
continued revenue, export and employment growth, and complete collapse of
populations of the most important commercial marine species. The sector,
though small relative to overall GDP, has grown at an average annual rate of
15t over the past 10 years, generating approximately $ 1 billion in revenues
in 1997 - almost 90t of which is exported - and directly employing
approximately 25,000 workers. In addition to their direct, commercial
benefits, fisheries resources are the basis of Argentina's unique fishing
communities and are key elements of Argentina's marine ecosystem.
As in many other countries, Argentina's rich marine resources are being
exploited at a rate that significantly exceeds the biological capacity of the
resource to reproduce itself. Captures of hake, the most important commercial
species, were estimated at over 800,000 metric tons in 1997, compared to the
recommended total allowable catch of 395,000 metric tons. The impact of
over-fishing has become evident to all as fishing effort per unit catch has
increased and the average size of fish caught has dropped dramatically.
To address the crisis, Argentina has initiated several actions to avert
collapse of its fisheries. A new fisheries' law was signed into effect in
January 1998. The new law "promotes the development of fishing activity
commensurate with the rational use of marine living resources while
encouraging the use of environmentally friendly industrial processes that
achieve the highest value added and generate the most employment for
Argentine workers". The law created the Federal Fisheries Council and
mandated the implementation of a quota management system (QMS) based on
Individual Transferable Quotas (ITQs). QMS, by assigning quasi-property
rights to harvest fish, is emerging as an international best-practice means
of addressing the inefficiencies and perverse incentives associated with
open-access or common property resource systems.
A recent Bank review points out that while QMS has been an effective



instrument in many countries to achieve the ecological, commercial and social
benefits associated with sustainable fisheries management, successful
implementation requires a challenging process of decisions and actions by
Government and other sector stakeholders. The report acknowledges that in
Argentina, Government faces the difficult challenge of implementing the QMS
concurrent with the need to substantially reduce catch to avert stock
collapse. The considerable harvesting and processing over-capacity in the
sector has led to substantial political lobbying and conflict regarding the
initial allocation of ITQs.
Despite this difficult scenario, there are several positive factors which
support a limited program of assistance to Government at this time.
Virtually all stakeholders recognize the need to improve resource management
to avoid sectoral collapse, and all support the use of ITQs as a primary
management tool. In addition, there is consensus on the need for Government
to demonstrate decisive action in managing the hake crisis so as to build
credibility for the new management system.
Project Objectives
The objective of the project is to build capacity for operation of a quota
management system (QMS) for fisheries. Argentina is the first country in
Latin America to legislate the use of individual transferable quotas (ITQs)
as the primary resource management tool . The project would be the first Bank
project to directly support implementation of a rights-based fisheries
management system.
The key performance indicators used to verify progress towards and
achievement of the project objective would be: (i) fisheries law regulated;
(ii) ITQs, at least for hake, assigned and registered; (iii) effective
detection and enforcement actions to maintain individual and overall catch
limits and enforce closure areas; (iv) roles of Government and private sector
in the delivery and financing of fisheries management services defined; (v)
policies in place governing by-catch and effort spill-over concerns; (vi)
cost recovery mechanisms defined; (viii) longer-term industry adjustment
strategy, including employment assistance and fleet reduction, defined and
accepted by Government
Project Description
The project would support implementation of the QMS through the following
project components:
(i) Strengthened institutional capacity to implement QMS (primarily
strengthened monitoring, control and surveillance, development of registry);
(ii) Assistance for displaced fisheries workers (worker orientation and
counseling for participation in existing national social programs);
Project Implementation
The overall project, including the Project Management and Monitoring and
Evaluation component is expected to be implemented over a period of 28 months
under the coordination of a project unit in SAGPyA which would be responsible
for managing procurement, disbursement, audit and reporting and monitoring
and evaluation activities with oversight from the Federal Fisheries Council.
- 2-



The Strengthened Institutional Capacity to Implement QMS Component will be
implemented by the Subsecretariat of Fisheries in SAGPyA with oversight from
the Project Unit. The Assistance for Displaced Fisheries Workers component
will be implemented by the project unit in SAGPyA, which will contract
specialized consultants to work with fisheries workers organizations, local
governments, MOL and SDS.
Learning and innovation expectations
The primary learning objective of the proposed program of support is: How to
privatize access to public, natural resource assets in a socially just and
acceptable manner? Within this more general learning objective, the project
has two specific learning objectives: (i) How to implement a management
system which supports the quality of property rights within the Argentine
context; and (ii) How to effectively and efficiently assist vulnerable
workers during industry's adjustment to more sustainable levels of resource
exploitation under the new management system.
The specific learning and innovation expectations of the proposed project
are:
Government (SAGPyA, Chief of Cabinet of Ministers, Ministry of Economy,
Senate, Congress) will evaluate how well the innovative CFP structure is able
to fulfill its management mandate, including regulation of the law,
assignment of ITQs, establishment of TAC and dispute resolution.
CFP and SSP will be able to determine the ability of SSP, in its current
structure, to carry-out its essential functions under the QMS and what
measures can be taken to improve its efficiency and effectiveness.
CFP, SAGPyA, Chief of Cabinet of Ministers and Ministry of Economy will be
able, as a result of studies, TA and experience gained under the LIL in
strengthening key management functions, to more accurately estimate annual
operational costs as a basis for establishing cost recovery goals and
mechanisms.
SAGPyA, MOL and SDS will pilot an unemployment assistance program, combining
social and active labor assistance, based on targeting existing programs to
specific geographical locations, and based on collaboration with local
stakeholders and a broad range of assistance providers.
CFP, MOL, SDS, Chief of Cabinet of Ministers, Ministry of Economy and Bank
will learn what employment assistance programs provide most effective support
to fisheries workers and what gaps, if any, exist in the social safety net
and menu of active labor programs.
CFP and SSP will develop models for their review with Chief of Cabinet of
Ministers, Ministry of Economy, as well as industry stakeholders to review
the economic, fiscal and social consequences of alternative fleet adjustment
scenarios and mechanisms.
Poverty Category
Program of Targeted Interventions (PTI): Although unemployment assistance is
expected to be targeted to poorest workers, the program is not classified as
-3 -



PTI as the direct assistance will not be financed under the program.
Environmental Impact
The project is proposed for environmental category B. Although activities of
the project are focused on improving management of marine resources and
reducing pressure on fishing stocks, reduction of catches is expected to
result in increased unemployment. In addition, the project will monitor
environmental impacts, if any, of changes in gears and fishing practices
under the new management regime.
Program Objective Category
Environment
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 28, 1999.
- 4 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
Chile uses a variation of ITQs to manage three species.
- 5 -



