Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20487-AR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE-AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A
SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
September 14, 2000
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 1, 2000)
Currency Unit = Peso
1 Peso = US$0.98
US$1 = 1.01 Pesos
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CFP                Federal Fisheries Council
DNPA               National Directorate of Fisheries and Aquaculture
ESW                Economic and Sector Work
EEZ                Exclusive Economic Zone
FMS                Financial Management Specialist
FOCZ               Falklands/Malvinas Outer Conservation Zone
FONAP              National Fisheries Fund
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GEF                Global Environmental Facility
INIDEP             National Fisheries Research Institute
ITQ                Individual Transferable Quota
MCS                Monitoring, Control and Surveillance
MEyFRH             Ministry of Labor
MIS                Management Information System
MIDSyMA            Ministry of Social Development and Environment
MSY                Maximum Sustainable Yield
NGO                Non-Governmental Organization
PHRD               Population and Human Resources Development Grant
PIP                Project Implementation Plan
PMR                Project Management Report
POA                Annual Operating Plan
QMS                Quota Management System
SA                 Social Assessment
SAGPyA             Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Food
TAC                Total Allowable Catch
UCP                Project Coordination Unit
UK                 United Kingdom
VMS                Vessel Monitoring System
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager/Director:   John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Steven N. Schonberger



ARGENTINA
SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                      4
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                                4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  5
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       6
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                              6
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            7
2. Financial                                                                           7
3. Technical                                                                           7
4. Institutional                                                                       8
5. Environmental                                                                       9
6. Social                                                                             10
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 11
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     12
2. Critical risks                                                                     12
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     13
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            13
2. Other                                                                              13



H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           14
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          14
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           15
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     20
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          24
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                              25
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                26
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        27
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      33
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    34
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   35
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             38
MAP(S)



ARGENTINA
Sustainable Fisheries Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSER
Date: September 14, 2000                          Team Leader: Steven N. Schonberger
Country Manager/Director: Myma L. Alexander        Sector Manager/Director: John Redwood
Project ID: P057459                                Sector(s): AF - Fisheries & Aquaculture, SA - Social
Funds & Social Assistance
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): Rural Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
N Loan          O Credit        O Grant         O Guarantee     E Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 5.0
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                                Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign         Total
GOVERNMENT                                                      3.50            0.00          3.50
IBRD                                                            3.50            1.50          5.00
Total:                                                          7.00            1.50          8.50
Borrower: ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
Responsible agency: SECRETARIAT OF AGRICULTURE, LIVESTOCK, FISHERIES AND FOOD
Address: Programa de Manejo Sustentable de la Pesca
SAGPyA
Av. Paseo Colon 922, Piso 3
Capital Federal, Argentina
Contact Person: Enrique Gabriel Sesar (Project Coordinator)
Tel: (5411) 4349-2165                Fax: (5411) 4349-2655                Email:
esesar@sagyp.mecon.gov.ar
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY           2001        2002         2003
Annual      1.0          2.5          1.5
Cumulative     1.0           3.5         5.0
Project implementation period: September 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002
Expected effectiveness date: 10/01/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2003
OCS PAD F.. Ret M-h, 20



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the project is identify innovative, cost-effective mechanisms for strengthening
Government's fisheries management capacity which can be expanded throughout the fisheries management
agency as the quota management system (QMS) is implemented and supported through an expanded
program of support to sustainable fisheries management in Argentina. Key strengthening activities to be
tested under the proposed project are: (i) introduction of strategic planning and increased transparency in
the provision of key administrative services; (ii) implementation of new technologies and human resources
strategies to improve professionalism, transparency and accountability in all key functional areas of the
monitoring, control and surveillance (MCS) system; and (iii) design of a special social assistance program
for vulnerable fisheries workers to be implemented in event of periodic closures of the fishery or sharp
reductions in the annual total allowable catch (TAC) of major commercial species.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
(i) DNPyA prepares and adopts strategic plan consistent with QMS impelementation.
(ii) Standardized licensing arrangements and infractions system established for species targeted under pilot;
(iii) Information available through internet updated on bi-weekly basis on license approvals, total and
individual catch against quota, and infractions;
(iv) Satellite monitoring and other MCS information available to provinces and private sector;
(v) Excess of annual catch relative to TAC does not exceed 10% for species targeted by pilot;
(vi) Special social assistance program designed to provide well-targeted assistance to vulnerable fisheries
workers.
(See Annex I for additional performance indicators for development objectives, outputs and inputs.)
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: Report No. 16505-AR             Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/27/2000
The project directly supports the CAS strategy of promoting sustainable management of natural resources
and protection of bio-diversity by redefining and modernizing the role of the public sector. Argentina is the
first country in Latin America to legislate the use of QMS as the primary resource management tool. Chile
uses a variation of QMS to manage three species. The project would be the first Bank project to directly
support implementation of a rights-based fisheries management system. Annex 1 presents indicators of
sustainable resources management in the fisheries sector consistent with the objectives of Argentina's
fisheries law.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The fisheries sector in Argentina is currently faced with a choice between continued revenue, export and
employment growth, and complete collapse of populations of the most important commercial marine
species. The sector, though small relative to overall GDP, has grown at an average annual rate of 15% over
the past 10 years, generating approximately $ 1 billion in revenues in 1997 - almost 90% of which is
exported - and directly employing approximately 25,000 workers. In addition to their direct, commercial
benefits, fisheries resources are the basis of Argentina's unique fishing communities and are key elements
of Argentina's marine ecosystem.
As in many other countries, Argentina's rich marine resources are being exploited at a rate that
- 2 -



significantly exceeds the biological capacity of the resource to reproduce itself. Captures of hake, the most
important commercial species, were estimated at over 800,000 metric tons in 1997, compared to the
recommended total allowable catch of 395,000 metric tons. The impact of over-fishing has become evident
to all as fishing effort per unit catch has increased and the average size of fish caught has dropped
dramatically. Government efforts to control fishing have been largely ineffective due to political concerns
regarding short-term employment loss, legal challenges and the lack of training, financing and
accountability of the national fisheries management agency.
In order to address the immediate risk of stock collapse of key commercial species, Government limited
catch for the first quarter of CY2000 to 35,000 metric tons and limited the area of activity of the
freezer-factory fleet. In order to develop an improved overall framework for fisheries management, a new
fisheries' law was signed into effect in January 1998 (Ley 24.922). The new fisheries law "promotes the
development of fishing activity commensurate with the rational use of marine living resources while
encouraging the use of environmentally friendly industrial processes that achieve the highest value added
and generate the most employment for Argentine workers". In order to realize these goals, the law created a
Federal Fisheries Council (CFP) with representatives from the Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock,
Fisheries and Food (SAGPyA), the Ministry of Social Development and Environment (MDSyMA), the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and each of the coastal provinces, as well as an advisory committee consisting
of representatives of fishing industry companies and labor unions. The law also mandated the
implementation of a QMS based on Individual Transferable Quotas (ITQs). QMS, by assigning
quasi-property rights to harvest fish, is emerging as an international best-practice means of addressing the
inefficiencies and perverse incentives associated with open-access or common property resource systems.
Recent Bank ESW (ARGENTINA: Towards Rights-based Fisheries Management, report dated December
30, 1999) points out that while QMS has been an effective instrument in many countries to achieve the
ecological, commercial and social benefits associated with sustainable fisheries management, successful
implementation requires a challenging process of decisions and actions by Government and other sector
stakeholders. Transition from an open or limited access situation with centrally managed access to one
based on transferable quota rights requires that the standard institutional framework associated with
property rights be in-place. This includes: (i) laws and regulations which define the rights and obligations
associated with ITQs and which designate the appropriate enforcement mechanisms; and (ii) institutional
capacity to carry-out the designated enforcement responsibilities, including sustainable fnancing to support
enforcement efforts - all activities which have been carried out with limited effectiveness in the past in
Argentina.
The ESW report acknowledges that in Argentina, Government faces the difficult challenge of implementing
the QMS concurrent with the need to substantially reduce the hake catch to avert stock collapse. Given the
critical situation in the hake fishery, limited institutional capacity and the ineffectiveness of past limits on
catch, the report recommends that Government first focus on implementing easily monitored and
enforceable actions to limit the hake catch to levels which permit stock recovery. The report suggests that
while preparation for QMS can proceed in parallel, implementation should take place when Government
has established the credibility of its enforcement capacity and developed the technical and financial
capacity to deliver critical QMS support services - either directly or through external contracting.
Despite this difficult scenario, there are several positive factors which support a limited program of
assistance to Government at this time. Virtually all stakeholders recognize the need to improve resource
management to avoid sectoral collapse, and all support the use of ITQs as a primary management tool. In
addition, there is consensus on the need for Government to demonstrate decisive action in managing the
hake crisis so as to build credibility after several years of ineffective enforcement. Monitoring and
- 3 -



enforcement is facilitated by the fact that fish are landed at only 12 sites in Argentina and about 85% of the
total catch is landed in just five ports.
In addition, despite its general institutional weaknesses, SAGPyA has developed several key functional
areas of fisheries management.. The National Fisheries Research Institute (INIDEP) has benefited from
several years of Government and international support (Government of Japan (JICA) under bilateral
assistance, and World Bank and Japan PHRD under Argentina Agricultural Services and Institutional
Development Project (3297-AR)) in building its stock assessment capabilities. In addition, Argentina has a
satellite-based vessel monitoring system (VMS) operating on 380 vessels to enforce closure areas, and a
fisheries information system which can form the basis for quota registry development.
Government has requested Bank assistance to develop the framework for sustainable fisheries management
consistent with the objectives of the new fisheries law. Given the innovative nature of the QMS in the Latin
American context and the need to test new technologies and human resources approaches to fisheries
management prior to the introduction of QMS, it was agreed with Government that a phased program of
support would be developed. A Japanese PHRD Grant has supported institutional and social assessments
and design of activities to be financed under the LIL as well as studies required for preparation of a
possible follow-on project. The LIL will support the pilot introduction of measures to address the most
urgent requirements for implementation of short-term and longer-term fisheries management measures
under QMS. The results of the LIL and the PHRD studies will be used to design a more comprehensive
program to support restructuring of the fisheries sector currently being discussed by Government and the
Bank.
3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
The primary learning objective of the proposed program of support is to identify innovative mechanisms for
strengthening Government's fisheries management capacity which can be expanded throughout the fisheries
management agency as QMS is implemented and supported through an expanded program of support to
sustainable fisheries management in Argentina.
The proposed project will contribute two major elements to this learning objective: (i) identifying and
testing means to strengthen Argentina's fisheries administration and MCS system consistent with the need
to develop greater professionalism, transparency and accountability; and (ii) testing the efficiency and
effectiveness of existing unemployment assistance programs for the most vulnerable fisheries workers.
Given the importance of consensus-based resource management under QMS, the learning experience under
the loan is targeted to the private sector as well as CFP and SAGPyA. The social assistance activities will,
in addition, be monitored with MEyFRH, MDSyMA and other implementers of social programs. Results
will be discussed with other key actors in the sector such as unions, the Senate and House of Deputies,
coastal communities, Navy, Coast Guard and NGOs. Based on the evaluation of the progress in advancing
implementation of the QMS and Government's effectiveness in enforcing precautionary measures to avert
stock collapse, particularly in the hake fishery, the Government and Bank will consider a follow-on loan to
further support QMS implementation.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
E Economic    N Technical    N Social          N Participation
N Financial    N Institutional  D Environmental El Other
CFP and SAGPyA will be able to identify, evaluate and implement the required actions to strengthen
- 4 -



general fisheries administration and MCS functions for QMS..
CFP, SAGPyA and industry will be able to test mechanisms to increase transparency and accountability of
MCS operation.
CFP, SAGPyA, Chief of Cabinet of Ministers and Ministry of Economy will be able, as a result of studies,
TA and experience gained under the LIL in strengthening key management functions, to more accurately
estimate annual operational costs as a basis for establishing cost recovery goals and mechanisms..
CFP, MEyFRH, MDSyMA, Chief of Cabinet of Ministers, Ministry of Economy and Bank will learn what
employment assistance programs provide most effective support to fisheries workers and what gaps, if any,
exist in the social safety net and menu of active labor programs.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
._______  _  . (US$M)   Total   (US$M)  financing
1. Strengthened Fisheries          Fisheries &          0.30        3.5      0.30       6.0
Administration for QMS (TA,        Aquaculture
training, equipment);
2. Strengthened MCS (TA, training,    Fisheries &       7.15       84.1      3.65       73.0
equipment and financing of recurrent    Aquaculture
personnel and operational costs);
3. Pilot Social Assistance Action  Safety Nets          0.30        3.5      0.30        6.0
Centers for Unemployed Fisheries
Workers (TA, equipment, operational
costs);
4. Project Coordination and Evaluation  Public Financial  0.70      8.2      0.70       14.0
(TA, equipment, training, operational   Management
costs).
Total Project Costs                     8.45       99.4      4.95      99.0
Front-end fee                     0.05        0.6      0.05        1.0
Total Financing Required                     8.50      100.0       5.00     100.0
-5-



2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
SAGPyA, as implementing authority of the fisheries law and president of CFP, will have overall
responsibility for project implementation and for facilitating the learning process supported by the loan. A
project coordination unit (UCP), within SAGPyA, will provide administrative (preparation of annual
operating programs (POA), procurement, financial management and reporting) and technical support to the
implementers of the project activities according to the PIP. The UCP will also assist SAGPyA and CFP in
management of the learning process, by ensuring that monitoring and evaluation is carried out, that the
results are discussed with CFP and other primary stakeholders and shared with secondary stakeholders,
including the Bank, for comment, and that any agreed adjustments which result from the learning process
are incorporated in the PIP.
The National Directorate of Fisheries and Aquaculture (DNPA) will be responsible for implementation of
pilot activities to strengthen fisheries administration and MCS. Social assistance activities financed under
the project (worker orientation, counseling, monitoring) will be carried out by a small, contracted technical
unit based in Mar del Plata and Patagonia, contracted and supervised by UCP in coordination with
SAGPyA, MEyFRH, MDSyMA, and participating local governments.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
UCP will be responsible for managing the monitoring and evaluation process. Monitoring and evaluation
will consist of: (i) UCP prepared quarterly project management reports (PMR); (ii) UCP prepared
semestral project progress reports which will measure progress against POAs and project indicators, assess
the quality of project outputs and the status of the project risk environment; and recommend measures to
improve project implementation; (iii) contracted external midterm review of project activities, outputs and
progress to development objectives completed within 12 months after project effectiveness; (iv) discussion
within two months of completion of results of semestral project progress reports and midterm review
review with CFP, SAGPyA, Chief of Cabinet of Ministers, Ministry of Economy, fisheries sector
stakeholders, and Bank supervision mission staff; (v) published, annual operational and financial report of
fisheries administration; and (vi) Implementation Completion Report.
The externally contracted midterm evaluation will include: (i) review of project documentation; (ii)
interviews with key stakeholders; and (iii) technical reviews by external experts. The evaluation criteria
will include:
(i) performance in implementing project activities in timely manner;
(ii) quality of project outputs;;
(iii) cost-effectiveness of technical approach;
(iv) influence of assumptions/risk factors on the project and how these were managed;
(v) progress toward project and program objectives;
(vi) issues to be addressed in project design.
In the case of the Improved Fisheries Administration and MC S components, evaluation is expected to be
carried out by international consultants with direct experience in QMS fisheries management, and
particularly in MCS. In addition to quantitative assessment of project results, the evaluation will review
qualitative factors related to increased professionalism, transparency and accountability in the management
system.
The monitoring and evaluation of social assistance activities will be carried out by a local or international
consultant. Bank supervision of this component will be coordinated with Bank staff working on relevant
- 6 -



projects with MTSS and SDSyMA.
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The activities funded by the project are vital elements to avoid complete collapse of hake stocks. The net
present value of future hake catch which would be lost due to a sustained collapse is estimated at US$1.67
billion.
Cost effectiveness of the funded activities was assessed based on work flow per person/hour estimates
consistent with international experience and specific aspects of the Argentine environment. Given the fairly
high salary levels in Argentina, it was agreed that the project will identify and test integration of technology
to increase labor productivity and transparency for each task. Although costs under the project are borne
completely by Government, cost-effectiveness and industry participation will be emphasized to gain
support for direct industry financing of observer and eventually other enforcement activities.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Aniex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
The Fisheries Law creates the National Fisheries Fund (FONAP) to support fisheries management through
recovery of costs from industry. However, as the mechanisms of the fund have not yet been designed, and
fishery activity is severely curtailed, it is estimated that CFP and SAGPyA will not have sufficient funds
for the next two years for the equipment, training and personnel required to control fishing under the
current framnework as well as prepare for QMS implementation Accordingly, the project provides bridge
funding, on a declining basis (70% down to 20%) for contracted staff over a two-year period. CFP has
agreed to provide the Bank with its projected budget for essential tasks, fnancing requirements from the
LIL and how these costs will be covered without external financing under FONAP.
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
Modern fisheries management administrations function essentially as information managers, using a variety
of mechanisms for obtaining, validating, transferring, storing, analyzing and acting upon information.
Information requirements under QMS are particularly high as catch against quota has to be accurately
measured and recorded and available in virtually real-time. QMS also requires the same high quality stock
assessment required under other management methods, and as is the case with these other methods,
socio-economic information and public consultation for validation and information dissemination are
critical. While Argentina has improved its information gathering capacity over the past ten years, the
quality and coverage of the information, as well as its utilization has not been sufficient to support effective
fisheries management. The proposed project will support preparation and implementation of a strategic
plan for fisheries administration focused on information management and public participation in decision
making, consistent with modem fisheries administrations in other QMS countries such as New Zealand,
- 7 -



Australia, Canada, and Iceland.
MC S is critical to fisheries management in general, and to QMS implementation in particular. In the past,
MCS activities have been implemented in an adhoc manner, without clear technical criteria or
transparency, under uncertain budgetary conditions, resulting in a general lack of credibility in the system.
The primary MCS strengthening activities to be piloted through the project - licensing, registry, dockside
and at-sea inspection, on-board observers, VMS and information processing - are the key to an effective
system. In order to test effectiveness and build credibility, the project-financed pilots in each of the
elements of the system will be evaluated jointly with stakeholders every six months.
The pilot action centers to be financed by the project to assist unemployed fisheries workers are consistent
with best practices which focus on worker orientation, facilitating access to assistance, providing a menu of
options and close monitoring and evaluation. In Argentina, the potential effectiveness of providing options
is limited by the number of unemployment and safety-net programs with sufficient coverage and speed to
address the needs of the target population (essentially public works, training and food baskets).
Nonetheless, the component, in addition to assisting workers to access these limited options, is expected to
provide the basis for developing a more comprehensive menu of options to be called upon as periodic
closures of the fishery are expected for several years as hake stocks recover and industry capacity adjusts
to sustainable yield levels.
4. Institutional:
Legal and regulatory framework: The new Fisheries Law addresses many of the weaknesses in the
previous management framework, including designating clear authority for fisheries policy decisions and
implementation, and by providing a stronger framework for punitive measures for violations. However, the
law does not provide a clear definition of the property rights represented by ITQs, with only general
guidelines for quota allocation and transferability criteria. In addition, while the jurisdictions of the
national and provincial authorities is specified, additional regulation is required to address issues of
management of stocks which move between jurisdictions and increasing conformity in regulations and
enforcement actions. Government has moved slowly in preparing the regulations to the law, due in part to
intensive lobbying by industry groups, and because CFP is still in the process of defining its responsibilities
and powers and lacks a technical secretariat to provide advice for policy decisions. Technical assistance
has been provided to CFP and SAGPyA under the PHRD Grant both for drafting of the regulations as well
as for external review by Argentine and international legal experts, a process which the Bank has offered to
facilitate through its legal department.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Government institutions in the fisheries sector are generally weak. DNPyA has many well-qualified
professionals at the management level, but the quality of line staff has suffered from frequent changes in
authorities and staff turnover, as well as several years of budgetary uncertainty. DNPyA currently faces a
budgetary crisis as cancellation of a fishing access agreement with the European Community resulted in
loss of funds which financed as much as 60% of DNPyA staff As indicated above, funding from FONAP
is not expected to be sufficient for two years. The agency has failed to clearly define its responsibility or
institutionalize staff with appropriate skills and equipment. In addition, the hake crisis and industry
concerns regarding the ITQ allocation process has undermined DNPyA's relationship with industry and
other stakeholders. Accordingly, the proposed project will provide some budgetary stability by bridging the
funding gap until FONAP becomes effective, support strategic planning, development of operational
procedures, staff selection and development, and support increased transparency in management
operations.
-8 -



SAGPyA's limited role in facilitating access to social assistance and impact evaluation is consistent with its
comparative advantage in knowing the principal stakeholders in the sector and its interest in better
understanding the employment dynamics of the sectoral labor-force. As the worker assistance and
evaluation activities are transitory, they will be carried out by consultants with appropriate experience,
working in close collaboration with SAGPyA. The agencies which would directly provide worker
assistance, MTSS and SDSyMA, have significant experience with the programs involved.
4.2 Project management:
SAGPyA has considerable experience in managing Bank-financed projects and this experience has been
drawn upon in developing the administrative arrangements for the project. Prior experience in Argentina
indicates that projects best address the needs of the implementing agencies when those agencies, rather than
the project unit, have responsibility for implementing relevant activities. As a result, the UCP's
responsibilities are limited to facilitating annual planning and procurement, reporting, financial
management, contracting external evaluation and ensuring broad-based discussion of experience under the
project. The draft project operational including operational responsabilities, PIP, financial management
and procurement procedures, reporting formats and drafts of key terms of reference was reviewed at
negotiations. Approval by the Bank of the final version of the manual is a condition of effectiveness.
The UCP consists of a general coordinator (overall project management and evaluation) and technical
coordinator (planning and supervision) with considerable sectoral experience and knowledge. The project's
administrative coordinator is an accountant with experience in financial management and procurement
under internationally financed projects. The PCU is also supported by two administrative staff.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The Bank Procurement Specialist carried out a Capacity Assessment to Implement Procurement, including
review of the project procurement plan and PCU experience with implementation of Bank procurement
guidelines. An action plan was agreed, including training for PCU staff and hiring of highly experienced
consultants to assist the PCU with NCB processes and other procurement matters as needed. As the
project involves the contracting of a number of recurrent positions, the PCU will implement a pilot
approach by which job candidates are identified by a contracted employment firm based on terms of
reference prepared by the firm in conjunction with DNPyA.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The Bank Financial Management Specialist (FMS) has certified the proposed project as 4-B, not eligible
for PMR-based disbursements. An action plan was agreed to finalize development of to the financial
management system. Approval of the project financial management system is a condition of project
effectiveness. Installation of computerized project management system capable of generating PMRs is
required within six months of project effectiveness. The use of PMR-based disbursements is an option of
the Borrower subject to Bank approval.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project is expected to have a beneficial environmental impact and no negative environmental impacts
are foreseen. Strengthening of MCS is expected to have beneficial impacts on the environment to the extent
it effectively reduces over-fishing, illegal entry into biological closure areas and use of restricted equipment
and fishing methods. Development of on-board observer program will permit improved monitoring of fish
and non-fish by-catch and discards. A GEF project is in preparation which is expected to include measures
to better address existing spill-over effects of fishing activities on marine bio-diversity.
-9-



5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A social assessment (SA) was completed during project preparation. The SA included the analysis of
existing data, as well as a survey of potentially affected workers. Several consultative workshops were
held with sea and shore-based workers in unions, cooperatives, fishing vessel and processing plant owners,
NGOs and local government officials. The SA contributed to the identification of key stakeholders in the
implementation of the QMS, as well as providing an estimate of the extent and nature of the vulnerable
workforce, and the direct and indirect negative impacts on employment of proposed catch reductions. As a
result of the assessment, SAGPyA's activities to facilitate access of unemployed workers to social
assistance will be focused on fisheries processing cooperative workers who tend to have lower incomes, are
less educated, are older, have higher dependency on fisheries employment for household income, and which
include a higher percentage of women heads of household.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Project preparation has involved constant conultation with CFP (including SAGPyA, MDSyMA, Ministry
of Foreign Affairs, coastal provinces), Chief of Cabinet of Ministers, Ministry of Economy, MEyFRH,
fishermen, processors, labor unions and fishing communities. Given the importance of building credibility
for the fisheries management system, these organizations are directly involved in the project learning
process through: (i) participation in a project launch workshop planned for late 2000, participation in the
project review workshops to be held every six months starting no later than eight months after project
effectivness, and as subjects of stakeholder interviews during the midterm review. Industry stakeholders
will be consulted directly in the final design and implementation of pilots for fisheries administration and
MCS services.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
N/A
For projects expected to receive authorization to appraise/negotiate (in principle) prior to April 30, 2000,
this section may be left blank.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
- 10-



N/A
For projects expected to receive authorization to appraise/negotiate (in principle) prior to April 30, 2000,
this section may be left blank.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
N/A
For projects expected to receive authorization to appraise/negotiate (in principle) prior to April 30, 2000,
this section may be left blank.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
El Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01. GP 4.01)          []Yes E No
O Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    l Yes 1 No
l Foresty (OP 4.363 GP 4.                                           Yes l No
El Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      L Yes IZ No
El Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  l Yes 1 No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   l Yes 1 No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             El Yes 1 No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              E l Yes 1 No
l Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50. BP 7.50 GP 7.50)     Li Yes 1 No
EL Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60. GP 7.60)         1 Yes Li No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The territorial waters claimed by Argentina within its 200 mile exclusive economic zone (EEZ) includes
the Malvinas/Falkland islands which is a disputed territory claimed by Argentina and the United Kingdom
(UK). An existing collaborative framework already is in place between the Governments of Argentina and
the U.K. On October 9, 1989, the two Govermments agreed upon the "Umbrella Formula" which
recognizes that a conflict exists on the sovereignty over the islands, while establishing a modus vivendi
permitting establishment of diplomatic ties and other follow-up agreements. Within the context of this
formula, Argentina and the U.K. issued ajoint declaration on fish stock conservation and management. On
November 28, 1990, both countries agreed to joint control and supervision of the Falklands Outer
Conservation Zone (FOCZ), including joint patrolling and imposition of a complete, temporary ban on
fishing vessels of any flag if so required. This led to establishment of the South Atlantic Fisheries
Commission. This Commission meets twice a year to exchange information on fish stocks and to discuss
other technical matters related to fisheries in the South Atlantic; and to make recommendations to both
Governments on conservation measures for fish stocks in the area. There are joint research and staff
exchange programs among Argentine and British scientists through the Argentine Fisheries Research
Institute .
During preparation, the Foreign Affairs Ministry of Argentina and the Foreign Office of the U.K. were
contacted and asked for their comments on the proposed project as related to their on-going negotiations.
At the request of both parties, support for development of fisheries management plans were eliminated from
the project as several of the management plans would involve species which are currently under discussion
within the context of the South Atlantic Fisheries Commission. The U.K. Foreign Office also emphasized
that their acquiescence to the project in no way implies compromise of their position regarding the
sovereignty of the Islands and their surrounding waters.
- 11 -



In accordance with OP/BP 7.60, Bank staff have considered the nature of the dispute over the
Malvinas/Falkland Islands and are satisfied that the U.K. (the claimant to the disputed area other than the
Borrower) has no objection to the project. The proposed project is expected to support further development
of the existing collaborative framework between Argentina and the UK in the conservation of South
Atlantic fish stocks by strengthening Argentina's capacity to carry out any management responsibilities
agreed between the two parties.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Framework regulations not defined to        S         Bank facilitated technical assistance to assist in
permit definition of operational                      drafting of regulations.
responsibilities.
Government does not maintain                S         Learning process facilitates stakeholder
commitment to development of                          pressure.
professional, transparent and accountable
fisheries management system.
FONAP management procedures are not         M         Pressure from provinces which share in FONAP
defined to permit sustainable financing of            revenues.
project activities.
From Components to Outputs
Counterpart funds not available in timely   S         Support from CFP and normal legal agreements.
manner.
Sovereignty dispute regarding               M         Existing collaborative agreement and support of
Malvinas/Falkland Islands results in                  project by U.K. (see below)
impediments or delays in World Bank
funding.
S        SAGPyA has submitted a formal request to the
Funds not allocated for social assistance             Cabinet of Ministers for development of a
programs in fishing communities.                     targeted social assistance program with
MTEyFRH and MDSyMA and has provided
these agencies with social assessments carried
out during project preparation.
Overall Risk Rating                         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 12 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
*   Increased transparency in MCS activities, particularly information sharing, may be controversial due to
the delicate balance between increased accountability to stakeholders of system effectiveness, and the
need to protect the confidentiality of commercial information. As a result, proposed information
sharing activities will be reviewed with industry.
*   There are several controversial issues associated with overall QMS implementation. Although the use
of the QMS is generally accepted in Argentina, the form of its application will test the application of a
property-rights approach to public resource management. Key issues include: (i) definition of the
property right represented by ITQs; (ii) initial quota allocation; and (iii) transfer restrictions; all of
which are highly controversial and generate considerable rent-seeking activity, particularly between
freezer-factory and land-based processing operations.
*   Implementation of short-term controls on hake catch are controversial due to employment effects.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
3   Final operational manual approved by Bank and issued (drafts reviewed at appraisal and negotiations).
9  Financial management system certified by Bank FMS.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Financial
v   Financial management system computerized and able to generate PMIRs acceptable to the Bank within
six months of project signing.
Project Planning and Execution
3   Provision to Bank, upon request, of official annual TAC figures for commercial species, catch
limitation measures being taken, actual annual catch to-date, enforcement actions taken.
* Provision to Bank, upon request, of FONAP regulations, financial projections and actual balances.
* Provision to Bank of draft Annual Operating Plan for the calendar year plus the first month of the
following year for review and no objection by January 31 of the corresponding year.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
*   Provision to Bank of quarterly PMRs within 45 days of the end of the previous quarter (beginning no
later than six months after project effectiveness).
*   Provision to Bank of semesteral project progress reports, according to TORs agreed with Bank, within
45 days after the end of each calendar semester.
*   Provision to Bank of external, midterm evaluation report within one month of completion.
- 13 -



*   Organization of evaluation review workshops with primary stakeholders within two months of
completion of semesteral progress reports and midterm review.
*   Publish each year an operational and financial report about fisheries management within two months of
end of each calendar year. (i) Final operational manual approved by Bank and issued (drafts reviewed
at appraisal and negotiations)
H. Readiness for Implementation
L] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
C 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
Z 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
(i) Key TORs and bidding documents for first 12 months of implementation to be incorporated into
operational manual;
(ii) Computerized project and financial management system operational.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
X 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
teven N. Schonberger            John Redwood                      Myma L. Alexander
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
- 14-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ARGENTINA: Sustainable Fisheries Management Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Sustainable management of   1. Improved quality of marine 1. Periodic resource    I. Equitable access to
natural resources.         resources.                  assessments.               resources.
2. Fisheries industry profitable 2. Periodic industrial census.  2. Benefits of improved
on unsubsidized basis.                                 efficiency of public
expenditure permit higher
3. Growth in average sectoral                          proportion of spending to be
wages.                                                 targeted to poor.
Follow-on Development
Objective:
Sustainable, fisheries QMS    Management plans for all    Annual fisheries management Scientific assessments of
operating with increased   major species prepared based  reports.                 population dynamics accurate
transparency, profesionalism   on international and domestic                      enough to permit harvesting
and participation (including   consensus.                                         without impact on species
industry financing).                                                              sustainability.
Annual species catch does not                          Industry capital and labor
exceed TAC.                                            adjusts consistent with
allowable catch.
Bycatch maintained within
ecologically safe levels for
commercial and
non-commercial fish and
mammals.
Industry paying all MCS costs
and share of research costs.
-15 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicaors              Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Development         Outcome / Impact            Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                  Indicators:
Identify innovative,        Based on LIL pilot experience, Semi-annual project progress  Other requirements for
cost-effective mechanisms to  DNPyA prepares and adopts  reports (including interviews  effective implementation of
strengthen transparency,    strategic plan which        with industry) and consequent QMS (regulations, initial
professionalism and         institutionalizes collaborative  discussions of results with    allocation, legal challenges)
accountability of           approach with industry and   stakeholders.              successfully addressed.
Government's fisheries      other stakeholders in carrying
management capacity which   out of its responsibilities.  Mid-term evaluation
can be expanded throughout                              (including stakeholder
the fisheries management    Based on LIL experience,    interviews) and consequent
agency and provinces as QMS DNPyA adopts policy of      discussion of results with
is implemented              competitively hiring all    stakeholders.
fisheries administration and
MCS staff according to TORs, ICR (including interviews
selection and performance   with stakeholders) and
criteria.                   consequent discussion with
stakeholders
Standardized licensing                                  National and provincial
arrangements and infractions                            governments interested in
system established for species                          follow-on program to
targeted by pilots.                                     strengthen entire fisheries
administration.
Piloting of increased                                   FONAP management
transparency in fisheries                               procedures defined to permit
management results in                                   sustainable financing of
permanently providing                                   project activities.
information to public through
internet, including license
approvals, total and individual
catch against quota, and
infractions and real-time MCS
information (including VMS)
available in provincial offices.
Institutional and technological
innovations in MCS result in
difference between annual
catch and TAC not exceeding
10% for species targeted by
pilot.
Based on evaluation of pilot
activities, specialized social
assistance program designed
to provide well-targeted
assistance to vulnerable
fisheries workers in event of
closures or TAC reductions.
- 16 -



Key Perfornance
Hierarchy of Objectives            Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each            Output Indicators:          Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Strengthened fisheries      Operational manual, TORs,   Quarterly PMRs.             Framework regulations
administration (introduction   skills criteria for core                             defined to facilitate definition
of strategic planning and   management agency staff.    Semi-annual project progress  of operational responsibilities.
transparency mechanisms in   Administrative staff provided  reports. .
fisheries administration)   with training courses and                               Govement remains
office information hardware   Bank mission supervision  committed to development of
and software for relevant   reports.                    professional, transparent and
responsibilities.                                       accountable fisheries
management system.
DNPyA web-site designed
with licensing, quota, catch
and infractions information.
VMS monitors installed in
each province.
Strengthened MCS (piloting   Operational manual, TORs,
of hiring, personnel        skills criteria and training
management and new          materials for staff hired under
technology to improve       pilot.
inspection, observers, registry, Forty inspectors and thirty
licensing and informatics).   observers selected
competitively, trained and
evaluated.
MCS equipment (on-board
key pads, scales) installed,
operating and evaluated.
Pilot Social Assistance     Action centers established in
Centers for Unemployed      Mar del Plata and Patagonia.
Fisheries Workers (pilot menu At least 3000 unemployed
based approach for         fisheries workers interviewed
unemployment assistance)    and assisted through action
centers.
Evaluation reports identifying
dynamics of targeted labor
force, labor market and
evaluating the accessibility (%
of estimated target group
unemployed assisted),
targeting (%of beneficiaries
who fit target group profile),
efficiency (full cost per
beneficiary) and effectiveness
(ability to provide assistance
during the required period and
association with obtaining a
job).
- 17-



Project Coordination and    At least three workshops with
Evaluation (evaluate learning  stakeholder to discuss results
experiences under project and of project progress reports and
strengthen collaborative    midtenn review.
approach with stakeholders)
- 18-



'Key Perfornance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components i       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
Strengthened Fisheries     $0.3 million               Quarterly PMRs             Availability of counterpart
Administration for QMS (TA,                                                      funds.
training, equipment).
Strengthened MCS (TA,      $7.15 million              Bank disbursement reports    Bank funding not delayed or
training, equipment and                               and procurement records.    impeded due to issues arising
financing of recurrent                                                           from sovereignty dispute
personnel and operational                                                        regarding Malvinas/Falkland
costs).                                                                          Islands.
Pilot Social Assistance    $0.3 million               External financial audit.  Funds allocated for social
Centers for Unemployed                                                           assistance program in fishing
Fisheries Workers (TA,                                                           communities.
equipment, operational costs).
Project Coordination and   $0.7 million
Evaluation (TA, equipment,
training, operational costs).
- 19 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ARGENTINA: Sustainable Fisheries Management Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$0.30 million
Strengthened Fisheries Administration for QMS Component
This component will strengthen SAGPyA's ability to carry-out its core management functions, and
particularly those required under QMS, including identification of service requirements (i.e. licensing,
registry, research, public information and public consultation, etc.) and cost-effective mechanisms for
supply of services, including direct provision, contracting and devolution to industry. The component will
be implemented by SAGPyA and will finance foreign and local technical assistance to review the key
functional responsibilities of SAGPyA under QMS and propose appropriate modifications to its current
institutional structure, operating procedures and staff profiles and terms of reference. The component will
provide training and equipment to SAGPyA staff to strengthen their capacity to carry-out these
responsibilities.
As a result of the component, SAGPyA should have (i) a clear statement of its operational mandate; (ii)
operational procedures, terms of reference and technical criteria for key administrative staff, (iii) staff
trained in core functions of the management agency; (iv) expanded web site information; and (v) annual
agency financial and operating reports
Project Component 2 - US$7.15 million
Strengthened MCS Component
The component will strengthen SAGPyA's ability to carry-out the key catch monitoring and control
functions required for management under QMS, including a license registry, quota registry, dockside and
at-sea inspection service, on-board observer program, and improved utilization of information from these
and the Monpesat system to improve the effectiveness of control activities. The component will be
implemented by the Directorate of Fisheries Administration and MCS in SAGPyA, and will finance
technical assistance to assist DNPA to assess current activities, develop operational manuals, training and
performance monitoring of staff and incorporation of required incremental staff and equipment (scales,
vehicles, computers, communications, office equipment). As DNPA has lost its EU funding and funding
from the National Fisheries Fund is expected to phase-in gradually over the next two years, the loan will
finance recurrent staff and operational costs on a declining basis over the next two years. The component
will be implemented in DNPA's offices in SAGPyA as well in the 8 ports in which it plans to strengthen or
establish inspection and observer capacity. Provincial fisheries management agencies will be invited to
participate in training related to license and quota registry management, as well as inspector and observer
operations. Information sharing with provinces will also be augmented through access to Monpesat and
other information sources.
As a result of the component, DAPyC should have (i) clear operational procedures, terms of reference and
technical criteria for all staff, (ii) staff trained in core functions of license and quota registry management,
inspection, observers and information management; (iii) a staff training and performance review system for
inspection and observer staff, (iv) increased use of all information sources to improve accuracy of catch
information and enforcement activities; (v) improved coordination and working relationship with provincial
fisheries authorities; and (vi) increased transparency through provision of regular fisheries and enforcement
status reporting and MCS effectiveness review with key stakeholders including CFP, provimces and
- 20-



industry.
Development of License and Quota Registry Sub-Component (US$0.80 million) This subcomponent
will provide intemational technical assistance for design and implementation of a new registry system
consistent with requirements under QMS and improvement of DNPA's offices consistent with greater
public interaction. It will also support information dissemination on its operation through bulletins and
seminars with industry. The cost of contracted personnel for registry operation, associated quota and
license reviews and administrative assistance to the Director will be financed on a declining basis as these
costs are expected to be borne by FONAP.
Improved Fisheries Inspector Service Sub-Component (US$2.65 million) This sub-component will
support development of a professional fisheries inspection service to carry-out dockside and at-sea
enforcement. A highly professional inspection service is critical to the credibility and effectiveness of the
MCS system as it is the primary point of contact with industry. The inspection service will consist of a
National Inspection Service consisting of the chief of inspection, three supervisors to monitor performance
in ports and 11 roving inspectors working in different ports and at sea. An additional 30 inspectors will be
based in the ports.
The project will support a technical assistance team consisting of a foreign expert and local counterpart
who will become the inspector service training and performance monitoring officer. The technical
assistance team will review the current service and staff skills, develop operational procedures, terms of
reference and hiring and evaluation criteria for inspectors. The TA team will also develop and run the
training courses for the first two groups of inspectors. Provincial fisheries services will be invited to send
staff for training. Existing inspectors who do not successfully complete training will be dropped from the
service. The project will also provide field equipment for inspectors and support the costs of contracted
inspection service staff on a declining basis as these costs are expected to be borne by FONAP.
Pilot On-Board Observer Program Sub-Component ($0.7 million) This sub-component will support, in
conjunction with INIDEP, development of an on-board observer program which addresses the needs of
MCS as well as research. Observers, which are not enforcement personnel, are critical to record catch,
by-catch, discard and, in the case of freezer-factory vessels, conversion factors for on-board processing.
Information collected can be used by MCS to target future enforcement actions as well as to have more
complete information on the status of fishing effort and catch. Industry is generally willing to support a
well-trained observer program as observer reports provide useful information to ship-owners and observer
presence often is enough to ensure greater compliance with regulations by the crew.
As in the case of inspectors, the project will support a technical assistance team consisting of a foreign
expert and local counterpart who will become the permanent observer training and performance monitoring
coordinator. The technical assistance team will review the current observer program in INIDEP and staff
skills, develop operational procedures, terms of reference and hiring and evaluation criteria for observers
consistent with expanded information needs. The TA team will also develop and run the training courses
for the first two groups of observers. Provincial fisheries services will be invited to send staff for training.
The project will support the costs of contracted observers on a declining basis as these costs are expected to
be bome directly by private industry given the value which industry places on high-quality observers.
Information and Communication System Sub-Component ($3.0 million) This sub-component will
support upgrading of DNPA's information and communications systems consistent with actual and
expected demands under QMS. The information and communication function is at the core of MCS as it
compiles and cross-checks information from the various sources - captain's declarations, dockside
- 21 -



inspector's reports, observer's reports, Monpesat satellite information and extemal statistics such as food
safety and export data. Effective MCS requires that the infomnation input and analysis occur rapidly so as
to permit appropriate action on the part policy and enforcement personnel.
The project will support purchase and installation of improved information hardware and software and
communications infrastructure. Staff will receive software training, and the cost of inforrnation and
communication staff, as well as the cost of the unit responsible for information analysis, will be supported
by the project on a declining basis as these costs are expected to be bome by FONAP.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.30 million
Pilot Social Assistance Action Centers for Unemployed Fisheries Workers Component
This component will provide assistance to unemployed fisheries workers to access national and local
government unemployment assistance programs and provide SAGPyA with an assessment of the
effectiveness of existing labor programs to address the needs of vulnerable industry workers. The
component will be implemented by an implementation unit, contracted for eight months, consisting of a unit
chief, a monitor and secretary based in Mar del Plata, and a monitor and secretawy based in Patagonia. The
component will also finance rent and equipment for a worker counseling center in Mar del Plata (where as
many as 80% of vulnerable workers are located) to receive and interview unemployed workers seeking
assistance, as well as information dissemination. The unit will be established to work with cooperatives,
unions and industry to provide workers with pre-layoff orientation, post lay-off counseling and assistance
entering labor and other social assistance programs. The centers will work with MTSS, SDSyMA and
local governments on the basis of formal coordination agreements.
As a result of the component, approximately 4,0000 targeted workers should receive assistance in
accessing existing unemployment assistance and safety-net programs, and SAGPyA should have an
information base which it can analyze with MTSS and SDSyMA in order to determine the accessibility of
existing assistance programs for vulnerable fisheries workers.
Target Group: Unemployed cooperative workers without access to standard unemployment benefits.
Total number of fisheries cooperative workers estimated at approximately 5,000. Average age is 45 years
old and average education is below completion of secondary school. A large percentage have at least two
family members employed in the fisheries sector. Up to 100% are expected to lose employment due to
closure of the hake fishery. As contracted piece-rate workers, none have access to conventional
unemployment benefits and so will be dependent on access to safety-net programs.
Geographic Focus: Approximately 80% of target group resides in Mar del Plata. An additional 20% is
located in Patagonia, principally in Puerto Madryn and Comodoro Rivodavia.
Functional Description: The project-financed unit will work with cooperatives, municipalities and NGOs,
as well as SDSyMA and MTSS to assemble lists of eligible beneficiaries consistent with the target group.
Orientation sessions will be held for these groups to indicate their assistance options and requirements for
participation. Workers will be required to go to action centers where they will be registered and assisted in
filling-out an entry questionnaire and provided with a menu of options consisting of public works
employment, training and food baskets. Once an assistance option has been selected, the action center will
assist in preparing the applications and ensuring that these are forwarded to the relevant government
agency. The action centers will also assist local communities in the identification and application for
participation in national and provincial programs.
- 22 -



Project Component 4 - US$0.70 million
Project Coordination and Evaluation Component
The component will provide administrative support for project implementation as well as ensure
implementation supervision and periodic evaluation and discussion by stakeholders of project progress.
The component will be implemented by a contracted Project Coordination Unit (UCP), established in
SAGPyA, consisting of a general coordinator (overall project management and evaluation), technical
coordinator (planning and supervision) and administrative coordinator (financial management and
procurement). The component will finance technical assistance and equipment (computers, communications
and office equipment) for the UCP whose primary responsibility will be to facilitate implementation by the
other components: implementation planning (POAs), procurement assistance, financial management, and
supervision of quality and timeliness of project outputs. The UCP will also have primary responsibility for
ensuring that the learning objectives of the project are realized, by contracting and supervising semi-annual
external evaluations (both technical and financial audits), and ensuring that the results are disseminated and
discussed with stakeholders including CFP, industry, other areas of Government, provincial authorities,
NGOs and the Bank.
As a result of the component, the implementing agencies should have: (i) timely and well-prepared POAs;
(ii) procurement assistance on demand; and (iii) on-going financial management services. The Borrower
and the Bank, as well as the implementing agencies, should have (i) quarterly implementation supervision
reports covering timing and quality of outputs; and (ii) annual financial audits according to approved
terms-of-reference. The Bank, Borrower, implementing agencies and other stakeholders (CFP, industry,
NGOs) should have (i) high quality semi-annual technical reviews covering the quality of project outputs
and progress toward project objectives; and (ii) well organized seminars at which stakeholders will discuss
the results of the technical reviews and determine what adjustments are required in project design or
implementation strategy.
- 23 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ARGENTINA: Sustainable Fisheries Management Project
1. Strengthened Fisheries Administration for QMS          0.20         0.10          0.30
2. Strengthened MCS                                       5.80          1.15         6.95
3. Pilot Social Assistance Action Centers for Unemployed  0.30          0.00         0.30
Fisheries Workers
4. Project Coordination and Evaluation                    0.60         0.10          0.70
Total Baseline Cost                                       6.90          1.35         8.25
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00         0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.10         0.10          0.20
Total Project Costs              7.00          1.45         8.45
Front-end fee                    0.05         0.05
Total Financing Required               7.00         1.50         8.50
Goods                                                       0.40          0.70         1.10
Works                                                       0.20          0.00         0.20
Services                                                    0.55          0.75          1.30
Training                                                    0.50          0.00         0.50
Recurrent Costs                                             5.15          0.00         5.15
Unallocated                                                 0.20                       0.20
Total Project Costs     7.00           1.45         8.45
Front-end fee                    0.05         0.05
Total Financing Required      7.00          1.50         8.50
- 24 -



Annex 4
ARGENTINA: Sustainable Fisheries Management Project
Summary of benefits and costs:
Benefits: As a low-case scenario, benefits are calculated only for the hake stock (about 50% of the value of
the fishery) as it is currently the commercial species most dependent on effective management effort.
Avoidance of collapse of hake stock represents an avoided loss equivalent to an NPV of $1.67 billion.
Costs: Costs of $8.5 million over two years (discounted value of $) reflect costs of equipment, training,
incremental personnel and associated expenses for monitoring and enforcement and social assistance,
equivalent to project costs of $8.5 million. Additional costs of fisheries management - research and the
administrative structure of CFP and SAGPyA are already in-place and are not considered to be sufficient to
prevent excessive fishing without the incremental investments in improved MCS.
Main Assumptions:
(i) Hake collapse likely without improved MCS supported by project funding;
(ii) TAC established consistent with recovery of hake stocks to permit estimated long term MSY of about
400,00 metric tons;
(iii) Landed price of hake remains at about US$500 per metric ton;
(iv) Discount rate of 12%.
Cost-effectiveness indicators These indicators should compare the project with a suitable comparator,
e.g., unit project costs of alternative project designs or intemational standards.
Argentina's annual fisheries management budget (including planning, MCS and research) is about $30
million, or about five percent of the annual value of the fishery (prior to 1999). This compares favorably
to the United States (over 40%), Canada (13%) and New Zealand (9%), and is comparable with Australia
(6%), South Africa (5%) and Iceland (4%/O). Nonetheless, while management expenditures are consistent
with many 'best practice" programs, the effectiveness of management expenditures is well below that of
these countries as evidenced by recorded hake catches which average 150% of TAC over the past few
years. If estimates of unrecorded discards are taken into account, the catch regularly exceeds TAC by a
factor of two or three. As a result, the proposed project, by incorporating improved definition of
management tasks, worker hiring and evaluation criteria, training and equipment, is focused on improving
the effectiveness of fisheries management within a resource envelope which would be consistent with
current expenditure levels (cost increase of no more than $4 million on annual basis). Transparency and
accountability measures will also be incorporated in order to provide industry with information on system
effectiveness as a step toward agreement on the level and mechanisms for industry funding of fisheries
management.
- 25 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ARGENTINA: Sustainable Fisheries Management Project
Years Ending
December 31
I Year2 I   Year2      Year3  | Year 4  | Year 5  I Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.2        1.6        1.4        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.3        2.7       2.2        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          0.5        4.3        3.6        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Front-end fee    0.1        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing              0.6        4.3        3.6        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   0.4        3.2       1.7        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 0.2        1.1        1.9       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                                                 0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     0.6        4.3        3.6        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
Higher level of Bank financing of recurrent costs (up to 70%) concentrated in years 1 and 2 of implementation,
declining substantially (to 20%) in year 3 according to disbursement schedule.
- 26 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ARGENTINA: Sustainable Fisheries Management Project
Procurement
SAGPyA will have overall responsibility for project implementation. SAGPyA carries out procurement
only in cases of intemationally financed projects, otherwise procurement for SAGPyA is carried out by the
Ministry of Economy. The present Project Preparation Unit will become a Project Coordination Unit upon
LIL signature. The UCP will be responsible for providing procurement support for project implementation.
A Capacity Assessment to Implement Procurement was carried out by the Bank Procurement Specialist.
Based on this assessment, an action plan was agreed with the UCP to strengthen their capacity to
implement the project. In particular, given the UCP's limited experience with procurement under
internationally financed projects, it was agreed that an experienced procurement consultant will be hired on
an on-call basis to assist the UCP with (i) all procurement subject to Bank prior review; and (ii)
preparation of standard contracts for individual consultants not subject to Bank prior review. The project
operational manual and information system will be strengthened to support procurement planning,
monitoring and reporting.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement of works and goods will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated January 1995, September 1997 and January
1999. Selection of consultant services will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997, Revised
September 1997and January 1999. The Borrower will use Bank standard Bidding Documents, Requests
for Proposals and Contracts.
All works contracts are expected to be below $350,000 equivalent and so will be procured using
comparison of price quotations from at least three competent firms (Three Quotations).
Even with "packaging" of like items, no single goods purchases are expected to exceed $500,000. Goods
purchases above $100,000 equivalent (primarily information equipment and vehicles) will be procured
according to national competitive bidding procedures (NCB). Goods purchases less than $100,000
(primarily specialized equipment for inspectors and observers) equivalent will be procured through
comparison of at least three prices (Shopping).
Consulting services from firms will be procured according to evaluation of the quality and cost of the
consulting firm's proposal (QCBS). However, in the case of contracts whose expected value is less than
$100,000 equivalent, selection may be based on comparison of the consulting firms' qualifications (CQ).
Consulting services from individuals will be procured according to evaluation of the individuals'
qualifications (normally at least three qualified candidates), except in the case that an individual is
considered to assist with recruitment of recurrent personnel in which case the selection will be based on
evaluation of the quality and cost of the individual's proposal (QCBS).
Recurrent personnel consist of fisheries inspectors, observers, information and registry system operators
- 27 -



and lawyers whose contracts are expected to be renewed without Bank financing following completion of
the LIL. Given that recurrent personnel involves up to 22 different positions, it was agreed that a consulting
firm will assist in the recruitment process, including preparation of tenrs-of-reference and qualifications
for each position. The consultant will also be responsible for the advertising and screening of candidates so
as to provide SAGPyA with a short-list of qualified candidates for selection for each position.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                             0.00           0.00            0.20           0.00          0.20
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.15)          (0.00)        (0. 15)
2. Goods                             0.00            0.70           0.40           0.00           1.10
(0.00)         (0.60)         (0.30)          (0.00)        (0.90)
3. Services                                          0.00           1.30           0.00           1.30
Consultant Services                   ()            (0.00)         (1.30)         (0.00)         (1.30)
4. Training                          0.00            0.00           0.50           0.00           0.50
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.40)          (0.00)        (0.40)
5. Front-end fee                     0.00            0.00           0.05           0.00           0.05
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.05)          (0.00)        (0.05)
6. Recurrent costs (contracted       0.00            0.00           5.15           0.00           5.15
personnel)                          (0.00)          (0.00)         (2.00)         (0.00)         (2.00)
7. Unallocated                       0.00            0.00           0.20           0.00           0.20
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.20)          (0.00)        (0.20)
Total                             0.00           0.70            7.80           0.00           8.50
__________________________          (0.00)         (0.60)          (4.40)         (0.00)         (5.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units
NOTE: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement
arrangement for the items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as "N.B.F. " need to be explained in
footnotes to the table or in the text.
- 28 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms           0.30      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.20      0.00      0.00      0.50
(0.30)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.20)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.50)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.80      0.00      0.80
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.80)    (0.00)    (0.80)
Total   0.30     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.20      0.80     0.00      1.30
(0.30)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.20)    (0.80)    (0.00)    (1.30)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 29 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior review by the Bank of all key steps in the goods or works procurement or consultant selection process
will be required as follows:
*   for contracting of all works, including those of low value as SAGPyA has experienced difficulty
with contracting of works in the past; and the contracts involved are few (up to six).
* for selection of all consulting firms, irrespective of expected amount, as all tasks being considered
for firms are considered critical to the project; and SAGPyA has limited experience with
contracting using the Bank's most recent guidelines for selection of consultants.
*   for selection of individual consultants for whom the estimated cost of the services is expected to
exceed $50,000 equivalent as well as all individual consulting assignments defined as of a critical
nature in the project operational manual (i.e.: UCP staff, external evaluators).
*   due to the project's focus on increased professionalism and transparency in the MCS system,
selection of key inspection and observer training and supervisory staff, as well as the first ten
inspectors and the first ten observers hired, are included in the critical contracts subject to prior
review despite the low expected value of the contracts.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works                          >350                      N.A.
<350                Three Quotations                All
2. Goods                          >100                     NCB                        All
<100                   Shopping              First three contracts
3. ServicesConsultants
Firms                            >100                     QCBS                       All
<100                      CQ                        All
Individuals                      >50                   Qualifications                All
<50                                       TORs only except critical
assignments
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  $4.8 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Review of a sample of one in five signed contracts.
Critical assignments are defined as: (i) Staff of UCP; (ii) external evaluators (midterm and final); (iii)
procurement contracting assistance; (iv) chief of social assistance unit; (v) foreign and domestic specialists
30 -



for development of strategic planning, registry, inspector service and observer program; (vi) others as
specified by the Bank or indicated in the project operational manual.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 31 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Until the Bank has received (i) the first Project Management Report and (ii) a request from the Borrower
for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made on the basis of
disbursement requests supported by documentation of eligible expenditures to be reimbursed according to
the financing percentages in Table C. Upon certification of the project as 4.a. by the Bank FMS, and
receipt of a request from the Borrower to initiate PMR-based disbursements in which disbursement
requests are supported by the PMR and approved following revision of the PMR by the Bank.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
.xpenditure Category  Amount in US$million        Finacn    c.G}.
(1) Works                                  0.15                         79%
(2) Goods                                  0.90                         79%
(3) Consultants' services                  1.30                        100%
(4) Incremental Recurrent Costs            2.00           70% up to a total of $1,000,000; and
then 40% up to a total of $1,500,000;
and then 20% up to a total of $2,000,000
(5) Training    _____ 0.40   __                                   __    79%
(6) Unallocated                            0.20
Total Project Costs                        4_95__
Front-end fee         0.05
Total                                      5.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing lcss than US$100,000 equivalent; (b)
services of consulting firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent and services of individual consultants
and trainers under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent.
Special account:
Payments from the loan proceeds will be administered by the UCP from a Special Account. The Special
Account will be maintained in US dollars in a commercial bank selected by the Borrower and acceptable to
the World Bank. The authorized allocation, sufficient for about four months of financeable expenditures,
would be US$800,000, however the initial allocation would be limited to US$400,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Bank shall be equal to or exceed US$ 1,000,000. The Special Account
will be managed by the UCP which will be responsible for preparing disbursement requests. These
requests would be submitted monthly or when the Special Account has been drawn down by a third of the
initial deposit, whichever occurs first. The Special Account will be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Retroactive Financing: Retroactive financing of up to US$ 500,000 (10% of the Loan arnount) will be
provided for eligible expenditures incurred since June 1, 1999 (but not earlier than 12 months before loan
signing).
- 32 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ARGENTINA: Sustainable Fisheries Management Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      8                             7
First Bank mission (identification)             12/08/98                      12/08/99
Appraisal mission departure                     06/30/99                      05/30/99
Negotiations                                    09/30/99                      05103/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   10/01/2000
Prepared by:
Project Preparation Unit of Sustainable Fisheries Management Project, and the National Directorate of
Fisheries and Aquaculture in SAGPyA.
Preparation assistance:
Japanese PHRD Grant TF025704; UNDP Argentina office provided an advance against PHRD Grant
pending Grant signing by Govemment.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
,Sr '> v 8' Name       -                  ---; = - - Speciality
Steven N. Schonberger             Task Manager
Estanislao Gacitua                Sociologist
Andres Mac Gaul                   Procurement Specialist
Susana Cirigliano                 Financial Management Specialist
Gert van Santen                   Fisheries Economist (Peer Reviewer)
Polly Jones                       Social Protection Specialist (Peer Reviewer)
Beatriz Iraheta                   Language Program Assistant
David Varela                      Senior Counsel
Morag van Praag                   Senior Disbursement Officer
Others who have worked on the project:
Eduardo Loayza                    Fisheries Management Specialist (Consultant)
Peter Flewwelling                 MCS Advisor (Consultant)
Dino Francescutti                 Project Economist (FAO/CP)
Juan Agar                         Fisheries Economist (Consultant)
Ragnar Arnason                    Fisheries Economist (Consultant)
- 33 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ARGENTINA: Sustainable Fisheries Management Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
ARGENTINA: Proyecto de Manejo Sustentable de la Pesca - Plan de Implementacion
B. Bank Staff Assessments
ARGENTINA: MCS Mission Component
ARGENTINA: Review of Social Assistance Component
Financial Management Assessment of Fisheries Sustainable Management LIL
ARGENTINA: SAGPYA Capacity Assessment to Implement Procurement
C. Other
ARGENTINA: Towards Rights-based Fisheries Management - Bank ESW
Inpacto Sociolaboral de la Crisis del Recurso de la Merluza - Informe Final
Draft Manual Operativo
*Including electronic files
- 34 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ARGENTINA: Sustainable Fisheries Management Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Aniount in US$ Milolins        disbursements
Projed ID     FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                    IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P043418       1997 Argenrena                 AR-AIDS AND STD CONTROL                          15.00      0.00       0.00      3.50       2.77      0.00
P058526       1999 Argentina                 AR-DRUG PREVENTION (UL)                           4.75      0.00       0.00      4,70       2.21      0.00
P083388       2000 Argentna                  AR-HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE UNINSURED             4.90      0.00       0.00      4.90       1.40      0.00
P045887       19S6 Argentina                 AR-HEALTH INSURANCE TA                           25.00      0.00       0.00      0.85       0.85      0.00
P034091       1996 Argentna                  AR-HIGHER ED. REFORM                            165.00      0.00       0.00      76.54     76.54      2.20
P006059       1997 Argntina                  AR-MATERNAL&CHILDHLTH&NUTRrIiON2                100.00      0.00       0.00     59.08       0.08      0.00
P006030       1996 Argentina                 AR-PROV. HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT              101.40      0.00       0.00     47.98      45.68      0.00
P055482       2000 Argentina                 AR-PUB. HLTH. SUJRV. & DISEASE CONTROL           52.50      0.00       0.00     52.50       6.83      0.00
P005992       1995 Argentina                 AR-SECONDARY ED1                                190.00      0.00      21.31      31.02     52.32     32.32
P008057       1996 Argentina                 AR-SECONDARYED.2                                115.50      0.00       0.00     68.17      60.11      0.00
P050714       1998 Argentina                 AR-SECONDARY EDUCATION 3                        119.00      0.00       0.00     31.08      29.42      0.00
P049269       1998 Argentina                 AR-SOCIAL PROTECTION 3                          284.00      0.00       0.00     72.28      72.28      0.00
P008058       1999 Argentina                 AR-SOCIAL PROTECTION 4                           90.75      0.00       0.00     75.51      10.54      0.00
P057449       1999 Argentina                 ARG YEAR 2000                                    30.30      0.00       0.00     26.61      21.61      0.00
P039584       1997 Argentina'                B.AURB.TSP                                      200.00      0.00       0.00     141.49     69.83      0.00
P055935       1998 Argentina                 EL NINO EMERGENCY                                42.00      0.00       0.00      32.88     32.88     15.55
P006052       1997 Argenbina                 FLOOD PROTECTION                                200.00      0.00       0.00     165.33     98.67     35.00
P00640        1996 Argentina                 FORESTRYIDV                                      16.00      000        0.00      8.57       3.81      0.00
P008056       1996 Argentina                 MINING SCTR DEVT                                 30.00      0.00       0.00       1.82      0.52      0.00
P055477       1998 Argentina                 MININGTA                                         39.50      0.00       0.00      13.84     13.84      0.00
P050713       1998 Argenbna                  MODELCOURTDEV.                                    5.00      0.00       0.        4.15       3.45      0.00
P006060       1996 Argentna                  MUNIC DEVT II                                   210.00      0.00       0.00      69.92     -51.40     0.00
P040808       1997 Argentina                 N.FOREST/PROTC                                   19.50      0.00       0.00      13.46     -1.20      0.00
P052590       1998 Argentina                 NAT HWY REHAS&MAINT                             450.00      0.00       0.00     271.66    165.92      0.00
P046821       1997 Argentina                 PENSION TA                                       20.00      0.00       0.00      8.81       7.97      0.00
P008050       1998 Argentina                 POLLUTION MGT.                                   18.00      0.00       0.00      17.58     10.05      0.98
P006010       1997 Argentina                 PROVAGDEVTI                                     125.00      000        0.00     116.21     30.89      6.27
P006018       1995 Argentina                 PROVDEVTII                                      225.00      0.00       0.00     85.22       -1.12     0.00
P005980       1997 Argentina                 PROV ROADS                                      300.00      0.00       0.00     265.05    166.39      0.00
P037049       1996 Argentina                 PUB.INV.STRENGTHG                                1600       0.00       5.50      7.25      12.75      0.00
P006043       1999 Argentina                 RENEW.ENERGY R.MIrTS                             30.00      0.00       0.00     29.10       3.30      0.00
P005968       1987 Argentina                 SEGBA V                                         276.00      0.00       0.00     32.24      32.24      0.00
P008041       1998 Argentina                 SMALL FARMER DV.                                 75.00      0.00       0.0       42.21     22.19     17.88
P066461       1999 Argentina                 SOC&FISC NTL ID SYS                              10.00      0.00       0.00       7.25      4.25      0.W0
P062992       1999 Argentina                 SPEC REPURCHASE                                 505.05      0.00       0.00     500.00      0.00      0.00
P006048       1999 Argentina                 WATER SCTR RFRM                                  30.00      0.00       0.00     30.00       8.34      0.00
P062991       1999 Argentina                 Special Sal (SSAL)                             2525.30      0.00     250.00     500.00    750.0     500.00
Total:    6685.40        0.DO      276.80    2940.70   1752.70   -785.10
- 35 -



ARGENTINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval       Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998              AUTCL                         6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              AceiteraChabas                0.00    0.00    3.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.10    0.00
1994              Aceitera General              7.50    0.00    6.90    0.00    7.50    0.00    6.90    0.00
1960/95/97199     Acindar                      50.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   50.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/95/96        Aguas                         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1977/84/86/88/94/96  Alpargatas                10.00    0.00    0.00   40.50   10.00    0.00    0.00   40.50
1999              American Plast               10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              Arg Equity Inv.               0.00    2.84    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.84    0.00    0.00
2000              Argentina SMMC                0.00   12.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/99           BGN                           0.00    0.00   33.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   33.00    0.00
1989/91/96        Banco Frances                 4.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996/99           Banco Galicia                50.00    0.00    0.00  245.00   50.00    0.00    0.00  245.00
1995/97           Banco Roberts                30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              Bansud                        3.39    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.39    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000              Bco Hipotecario              25.00    0.00    0.00  102.50   25.00    0.00    0.00  102.50
1996              Brahma - ARG                 14.93    0.00    0.00   16.50   14.93    0.00    0.00   16.50
1988/93           Bunge y Bom                   0.53    0.00    0.00    4.01    0.53    0.00    0.00    4.01
1996              CAPSA                         9.82    0.00    5.00   27.00    9.82    0.00    5.00   27.00
1999              CCI                           0.00   20.00   20.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    6.00    0.00
1995              CEPA                          6.67    0.00    3.00    1.20    6.67    0.00    3.00    1.20
2000              Cefas                        10.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999              Correo Argentino             63.00    0.00   12.00    0.00   63.00    0.00   12.00    0.00
1994/95           EDENOR                        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              F.V. S.A.                    11.25    0.00    4.00    0.00   11.25    0.00    4.00    0.00
1998              FAID                          0.00    2.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.75    0.00    0.00
2000              FAPLAC                       10.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1992              FEPSA                         2.75    0.00    2.00    0.00    2.75    0.00    2.00    0.00
1997              FRIAR                        10.00    0.00    2.50    7.00   10.00    0.00    2.50    7.00
1996              Grunbaum                      6.00    0.00    2.00    3.33    6.00    0.00    2.00    3.33
1997              Guipeba                      13.93    0.00    5.00    0.00   13.93    0.00    5.00    0.00
1998              Hospital Privado              9.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
Huantraico                   0.00   17.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992              Kleppe/Caldero                6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/97           MBA                           0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00
1996              Malteria Pampa                3.50    0.00    1.00    0.00    3.50    0.00    1.00    0.00
1992/93/96        Mastellone                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              Milkaut                       7.50    0.00   10.00    3.00    7.50    0.00   10.00    3.00
0/97              Minetti                      30.00    0.00   14.00  100.00   30.00    0.00   14.00  100.00
1978/81/86/87/91/93/9 Molinos                   0.00    1.24    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.24    0.00    0.00
6/99              Nahuelsat                    17.50    5.00    0.00    0.00   17.50    5.00    0.00    0.00
1993/94           Nuevo Central                 3.13    3.00    0.00    3.75    3.13    3.00    0.00    3.75
1995              Oleaginosa Oeste              2.29    0.00    3.75    0.92    2.29    0.00    3.75    0.92
1993              PAE - Argentine               9.09    0.00    0.00   18.18    9.09    0.00    0.00   18.18
1992              Patagonia                     5.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    1.00    0.00
1992/95
1998
Total Portfolio:      652.48  117.64  189.25  888.81  632.38   67.72  170.25  888.81
- 36 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000               ALEF                         25000.00      0.00      0.00 150000.00
2000              APSF                          20000.00      0.00   5000.00  30000.00
1999              American Plast                    0.00      0.00    350.00      0.00
2000              Argentina SMMC                100000.00     0.00      0.00 450000.00
1999              Biopork                        5200.00   2000.00      0.00   5000.00
2000               CAG Fund                         0.00      0.00  10000.00      0.00
1999              DI TELLA                       9000.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1999              Galicia BLINC                     0.00      0.00      0.00  75000.00
1998              U.Belgrano                    15000.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1999              Unisoy                         5000.00   2000.00      0.00   4000.00
Total Pending Commitment:    179200.00   4000.00  15350.00 714000.00
- 37 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ARGENTINA: Sustainable Fisheries Management Project
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Anerica   niddle-
Argenti    & Carb.  Income        Development diamond
1999
Populaion, mid-year (rnillions)                      36.6       509       573                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atls methor, USS)                   7.600     3.840     4,900
GNP (Atlas mefod, lS5 billions)                     277.9     1,955     2,811
Avag annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                        1.3       1.6       1.4     G 
Labor force (%)                                       2.1       2.5       2.1     GNP                             Gross
per                            primary
Most racent etnute (latest year available, 1993-99)                               capita                       enrollment
Povertv (% ofpubticn below nationalpovarly line)       18
Urban population ( of tohtl populabtion)              90         75        76
Life expectancV at birth (years)                       73        70        70
Intant mortalidy (per 1,000 Wive births)               19        31       27
Child malnutrition (X ofctildren under 5)               2         8         7               Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of pcpulation)      65        75        78
lllteracy(%Nofpcoulationace 15+)                       3         12        10          - retn
Gross primary enrolment (% of schoof-ae population)   111       113       109              Arentna
Male                                               111                                   Upper-midde-incomne group
Female                                              ill
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic ratios
GOP (USS billions)                          69.3     76.6     298 1    282.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP               25.9    15.5       19.9      19.1                     Trade
Exports of poods and services/GDP            6 5     13.1      10.4       9.8
GrossdomestcsavOngs/GDP                     260      220       17.4      17.4
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                   25.2     136       15.1      14.8
Current accourt balance/GDP                 -0.8     -1.7      -4.8      -4.3    Domeic                        nemn
Interest Davments/GOP                        1.4      2.0       2.4       2.8                                 Investment
Total debt/GDP                              30.2     85.6      47.1      5112     SavAngs
Total debt service/exports                  22 7     36.4      52.8      69.6
Present value of debttGDP                                      50.5
Present value of debt/exports                                 410.1
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99    1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GOP                                -0.4      5.0      3.9      -3.1       3.8               Argiitina
GNP per capita                     -2.4      4.1      2.4      -4.1       2.9               Upper-rniddle-ncome group
ExDorts o aoods and services        2.5      8.9     10.1       -1.1      4.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999     Growth of Investmentand GDP(%)
(% of GOP)                                                                        20
Aariculture                                  7.8      9.6       5.7       4.6
Industry                                    44.0     42.3      287       283      ' 
Manufacturing                             32.7     30.9       19.1      18122
Services                                    48.2     48.0      65.6      67.1    -10                      97   98
Private consumpton                          63.0     73.5      70.7      69.7    -20
Generaloovernmentconsumptiron               11.0      4.5      11.9      12.9             -GDI                 GDP
Imwortsof moods and servioes                 6.3      6.6      12.9      11.5
a1979-8g a989-9      1998 g999           Growth of exports and imports (%)
(av-sge anual growtlh)
Agriculture                                  0.5      4.0      10.3      -0.5    30 -
Industry                                    -12       46        32       -51  z0
Manufacturnn                              -0.9      3.6        1 6      -6.9
Services                                     0.5      5.0       4.7      -1.4    10
Private consumpton                                    3.8      12.1      -42      o
General government consumption                        1.3      -1.1       1.2            94         Be   97   98
Gross domestic investment                   4.6       9.3       6.6      -7.6    -0o
Imports of oods and servioes                -5.4     19.6       8.4    -11.2            -    Exports   *l Imports
Gross national product                      -1.0      5.4       3.5      -3.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with is income-group average. If data are missinq, the diamond vill
be incomPlete.
- 38 -



Argentina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989      1998     1999    Inf8lation8%
Domestkc prices
(% change)                                                                      I5
Consumer prices                           159.5  3,066.3       0.9     -2.2    10
Implicit GDP deflator                     147.4  3,057.6      -2.0     -2.2       35
Govermment finance
(% of GDP, inckudes currnt grants)                                              o
Current revenue                             8.0    15.5       18.8     19.3     s
Current budget balance                      3.7    -3.5       -0.3     -1.5                 GDP deflator      CPI
Overal surplus/deficit                     -1.4    -6.3       -1.4     -1.7
TRADE
1979    1989      1998     1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ ff*#=ns
Total exports (lob)                                9,656    26,441   23,315    35,000
Food                                             1,016     3,056    2,428
Meat                                               716       836      653
Manufactures                                     3,186    17,387   15,082    21,0D00-
Total iprts                                        4,230    31,404   25 538
Food                                        ..       .         .      466
Fuel and energy                 '                  389       852      674 7,
Capital goods                                    1,450    15,649   11,909        0
Export price index (1995=100)                          .       92        80           93  94  95  Oa  97  98  99
Import price index (1995=100)                                  92        85                NExports     wimports
Termsoftrade(19954100)                       ..       ..      101        94
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS                                       1979    1989      1988      1999     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                 9,176   11,759    31,123   27,758     0
Imports of goods and services             8,773    6,254    38,568   32,557
Resource balance                            403    5,505    -7,445   -4,799
-2  -i   
Net income                                 -973   -8,818    -7,335   -7,847
Net current transfers                        26       8       388       394
Current acoount balance                    -544   -1,305   -14,392  -12,252    4-
Financing items (net)                         .     107    10,954   11,051
Changes in net reserves                       .    1,198     3,438    1,201    t
Memo:
Reserves includina gold (US$ millions)        .   10,814    24,906   26,407
Conversion rate (DEC, bocaLUS$)         2.79E-8  4.23E-2       1.0      1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989      1998     199
(USS millons)                                                                   Conposition of 1998 debt (USS niill.)
Total debt outstandinp and disbursed     20,942   65,618   140,489  144,657
IBRD                                      367    2,281     7,417    8,591    |                  A: 7,417
IDA                                         0       0         0         0                            C: 5,442
G: 30,956             D' 1,705
Total debt service                        2,251    4,385    19,690   23,571   E| 7,400
IBRD                                       59     417       725       998
IDA                                         0       0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Offcial grants                             -2      54        31         6
Official creditors                        233     660      2,072    1,538
Private creditors                       4,334    -732      9,527    2,882
Foreign direct investment                206    1,028      6,150   11.120
Portfolio equity                            0       8        50   -2,093                           F: 87,569
WoVld Bank program
Conmitments                                96      35      3,815      132     A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              39     316      2,029    1,573     B - IDA    D - Other mutilateral  F - Pdvate
Principal repayments                       24     221       350       445     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net lows                                   15      96      1,678    1,128
Interest payments                          36     196       375      553
Net transfers                             -21    -101      1,304     575
Deveiopment Economics                                                                                           9112/00
- 39 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 293A8
7o:0                                  8       6100    5\                                     i0.- 
-20e       2?       BOLIVIA                                                                                             20
1   C   -a\;.r    sPARAGUAY 
:    o/  >>anP~~Ce Jjuyid        0-     o                                  B  R A  Z  I L                    v
S  /         ~ ~S A L TA                         ,!--
,  > co     t;  ~Tuium6n        |C HACO'F,/p                                      Xrmc;                   E ;
)    5  ~~~TU.C,ASANTIG               Resistencio<0._ Posad,+\5s   F, 
L  os,, X  4   05Sontpgo del tro    _ Corrientes 'v                    
R ] > t 4 57<3VrC amarca  /  &   k 
, IJ            F              'ESTERO :,tt,f   
,  ~  } >  La Rio'a    ^   '        |         1 Ct       +                               /      -      
o -\~~~ -       J ROA\         ;SA NTA  ..   .                                       ';- -                 :
-300                S AN                                   F E,)               .                  3f;--;;-                    ;- 
u  r jUAN    M               C6rdo6c ISanta                                        - 
|  2   . > ,<O\ROROBAW       PRj                                                    
.  A           \~~LUISK                         tl@ 
JMENDOZA rIA!;; 
I   \   .J---    :  ~~~~~BUENOS                           -- -A T L; A N N  C
* y tt 9 ~~~~~Sonto Rosas\8  
| ; \E L~~~~~LA                               A I RES  .:
| - - . - s PAM PA \Xf.        
ffi    :     {INEUQUENI .                                 
, ,\Neuqu"                                                                           a~-~* ~c l A N ;;- 
-     )     /       ~~RIO           !0         ;                                     :;                               -
-4D            U  NEGR O ;::-    
1 j _ - ~ARGENTi NA --:
... HUBT . ............ ..       
j  <  S  < 7 . . * . . ;.~~~~~~~~~~~APIAL
4   <     ;                  i -  -  .    i---   i~~~~~NTEWATODNAL BOUNDARES:         
S4  rCRUZ T-- L NS E- 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WK AAN                                           0  0         f       00- i    .-  ..  '
APRIL 1 998



