Report No. 1396a-PAK                                                      FlE  COPY
Pakistan: Appraisal of 1976
Flood Damage Restoration Project
February 4, 1977
South Asia Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Pakistan Rupee is officially valued
at 9.9 to the US Dollar. However, the rate
below is used throughout this report, except
where stated to the contrary:
US$1      =        Rs 10.00
Rs 1      =        US$0.10
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
English/US Units                                   Metric Units
1 foot (ft)                                     30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 yard (yd)                                     0.914 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)                                     1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acres (ac)                                    0.405 hectare (ha)
1 square mile (sq mi)         =                 259 ha
1 cubic ft (cu ft)                              0.028 cubic meters (m )
i cubic yd (cu yd)                              0.765 m3
1 acre-foot (ac-ft)           =                 1,233 mi
1 cu ft/sec (cusec)           -                 0.028 m3/sec
1 pound (lb)                                    0.454 kilograms (kg)
1 long ton (lg ton)           =                 1,016 (1.016 metric tons)
Pakistani Units            English Units            Metric Units
1 maund (md)  =   82.3 lb (0.0367 lg ton)    =    37.3 kg (0.0373 m tons)
26.8 mds      =   2,205 lbs                    =    1.0 m ton
27.2 mds      =   1.0 lg ton                   -    1,016 kg
1 bale             396 lb                      -    180 kg



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ACS          -      Additional Chief Secretary
ADP          -      Annual Development Plan
B&RD         -     Buildings and Roads Department
CIF                Carriage, Insurance and Freight
C&WD         =     Communications and Works Department
FDRCC              Flood Damage Restoration Coordination Committee
FFC                Federal Flood Commission
FWC                Flood Warning Center
GOP          =     Government of Pakistan
IB           =     Irrigation Branch, PWD
I&PD         -     Irrigation and Power Department
MCP          -     Mechanized Construction Pakistan Limited
MFP&D        -     Ministry of Finance, Planning and Development
MFP&NR       -     Ministry of Fuel, Power and Natural Resources
MPO          -     Machinery Pool Organization
NWF          -     North West Frontier
O&M          -     Operation and Maintenance
PCC          -     Provincial Coordinating Committee
PMD          -     Pakistan Meteorological Department
TJV          -     Tarbela Joint Venture
T&TD         -     Telegraphs and Telephones Department
WAPDA (N&S)  -     Water and Power Development Authority
(North and South)
WMO          -      World Meteorological Organization
GLOSSARY
Barrage                -     A low dam for regulating river levels and
discharges into adjacent canals
Bund                   -     A flood protection levee or embankment
Doab                   -     The land between two rivers
Kharif                 -     The hot (summer) season (April to September)
Nallah                 -     A deep natural drainage channel or creek
Non-Perennial Canals  -      Canals flowing mostly in the kharif season
with low priority for rabi rivers supplies
Paddy                        Threshed, umilled rice
Perennial Canals       -     Canals flowing most of the year
Rabi                   -     The cool (winter) season (October to March)
Spur                         A river training dike usually protected by
stone facing directed into the river
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
Thia document has a mtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of the ocal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PAKISTAN
REPORT ON
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page no.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .............................                         i - vi
I.    INTRODUCTION  ........................................                              1
II.    BACKGROUND  ...................................... o     ................            I
General           ...................................                               1
Floods  and Flood-Producing  Events  .... ........... .                            2
Flood Protection  . .....            ......................... .                    3
Flood Forecasting  and Warning  Systems  ...............                           3
Credit  466-PAK  ......................................                            4
III.    THE  1976 FLOODS  ......................................                             6
Causes           ...................................                               6
Effects  ....         ........ o ........................... .                     6
General ........................                                            6
Loss  of Life  and Private Property  .............               .           7
Crop  and Livestock Losses  ....            ............                    7
Damage to Communications Infrastructure
and Power System ....................                                    7
Damage to Irrigation, Drainage and Flood
Protection Infrastructure ...................                           8
Damage  to Public Buildings  .....................                          9
Costs of the  1976 Floods  .....            .............. .                       9
Direct  Costs  .................................. .                         9
Impact on  the Balance of Payments  ..                  ............       10
Cost  to  the Budget  .............................                        11
IV.    THE PROJECT  .........................................                             11
General  .............................................                            11
Detailed  Features  ................           ..      .................          12
Restoration Works  ..............................                          12
Spare Parts  ....................................                          15
Special  Equipment  .*                ............................         15
Special Materials  ..............................                          15
Flood Forecasting and Warning Equipment                     ........       16
Technical  Services  .............................                         16



-2-
Page no.
Organization and Management .........................      17
General ......................                        17
Coordination and Supervision.17
Operation and Maintenance of Flood Protection
and Drainage Systems .....    .........................  19
Project  Costs   .......................................   19
Project Financing ......     .............................  20
Disbursements   ............  ...........................  21
Procurement        .........................................  22
Major  Contracts   ................................   22
Petty  Contracts   ..................................  22
Spare Parts, Tools, Special Equipment and
Materials   ........... ..........................  22
Accounts and Audit ..................................      23
V.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION        ...........................  23
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....    ..........   24
PHOTOGRAPHS
ANNEXES
1.  Floods in the Indus Basin
2.  The 1976 Storms, the Flood Forecasting and Warning
Systems and Flood Data
3.  Description and Estimated Value of
Damage Due to 1976 Storms and Flooding
4.  Restoration Works to be carried out under the Project
5.  Civil Works Organization, Coordination and Restoration
Capacity
6.  Draft Terms of Reference for Studies of Operation and
Maintenance of Flood Protection System and Domestic
Civil Works Contracting Industry
7.  Requirements and Procurement of Spare Parts, Special
Equipment, and Materials for Provincial Departments
8.  National Flood Protection Planning
9.  Project Cost Estimates
10.  Project Implementation Schedule
11.   Schedule of Estimated Credit Disbursements
MAP
Key to Map
12560 -- Locations of Storm and Flood Damage, 1976



PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        In the monsoon season of July through September 1976 Pakistan
suffered unusually heavy rainfall. This resulted in extensive and serious
flooding as well as much damage from hill torrents and the direct impact of
continued torrential rain. As a consequence Pakistan incurred substantial
losses of agricultural production and now faces a major, costly task of
rehabilitating a seriously damaged infrastructure. In September 1976 the
Government of Pakistan (GOP) asked the Bank to examine the damage situation
and consider ways in which it might provide financial assistance to help meet
the burden of the restoration effort. As a consequence a mission visited
Pakistan in October 1976. This report is based on the mission's findings.
ii.       The report recommends an IDA credit of US$40 million to GOP to
finance a project designed to restore public infrastructure damaged by the
1976 floods. The Bank conducted a somewhat similar operation in Pakistan
subsequent to the heavy flooding of 1973. Then, however, the Bank collab-
orated in a joint effort with the United Nations. A result of the 1973
operation was an IDA Credit (466-PAK) of US$35 million of which more than
half was for industrial imports. The proposed operation would differ from
that of 1973 in that the credit would be applied solely to the rehabilita-
tion effort, specific components of which would comprise a project to be
financed with the Credit. Credit 466-PAK was a success with all but minor
objectives reached promptly.
Floods and Flood-Producing Events
iii.      Floods in Pakistan occur most frequently and are most extensive
and damaging in the Indus Plains of Punjab and Sind Provinces along the Indus,
Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi and Sutlej Rivers. Because of quite different hydrologic
and topographic conditions, and their less dense populations, Baluchistan and
North West Frontier (NWF) Provinces are not prone to such extensive or damaging
floods. Floods in the Plains are generated in the mountainous upper catchment
areas of the Indus and its tributaries where intense rainfall, snow-melt, steep
gradients and limited valley storage can cause a rapid build up of high river
flows. On reaching the broad, relatively flat Indus Plains, flows with eleva-
tions only slightly above the river banks can spread and cause flooding over
very large areas. Flood risk is most high during the July through September
monsoon period, when tropical depressions move north-west into Pakistan from
the Bay of Bengal.
Flood Protection
iv.       Flood protection is achieved largely through the construction of
flood protection embankments or bunds. In Sind Province, the Indus River is
bunded on both banks for 500 miles of its length. In Punjab, marginal bunds



- ii -
have been constructed at all barrages and major river structures. These flow-
directing embankments protect the works from being by-passed when the rivers
are in flood. Improvement of the existing flood protection system of bunds
along the rivers is the only practical means, in the foreseeable future, for
protection against floods. A technically better solution would be construc-
tion of a reservoir complex of sufficient size to provide storage and thus
regulate floods. Unfortunately, there are very limited possibilities for
the construction of such a complex at reasonable cost, and no such develop-
ment would appear economically feasible in the near future.
The 1976 Floods
v.        Rainfall in the 1976 monsoon season, June through September,
exceeded the 30-year average (except for northern Baluchistan), by at least
50%, and in many areas by more than 100%; for example, Lahore (Punjab) 175%,
Peshawar (North West Frontier/NWF) 230% and Jacobabad (Sind) 128%. For 23
representative recording stations, rainfall in the four months exceeded that
of the heavy flood year of 1973 by about 10%. Much as in 1973, the Punjab
experienced the first impact of the high rainfall when flows in the Ravi,the
most flood-prone river of the basin, and the Chenab river began to rise ra-
pidly in the second half of July. Serious flash flooding also occurred.
Discharges at the Balloki and Sidhnai barrages on the Ravi exceeded design
capacities, and on August 15 a highest ever discharge was recorded at Sidhnai.
Water levels in the Indus started rising in the third week of July in the wake
of heavy rains in its catchment area. When these flows were joined by those
of the left bank tributaries at Panjnad, levels quickly rose to record peaks.
On August 16 a new record of 1,200,000 cusecs was established at the Sukkur
Barrage. Finally, the peak discharge flowed into the Arabian Sea on August 29.
High flows in the hill torrents resulted in numerous breaches in the protec-
tive bunds and in canals, which resulted in widespread flooding in Sind.
vi.       The floods, which inundated more than 20 million acres, and heavy
rains caused loss of life, the destruction and damage of much property, in
particular public buildings, private houses, and losses of crops and livestock.
The physical infrastructure of the country was severely damaged. As a conse-
quence Pakistan's development prospects have been retarded. Four hundred and
thirty people are reported to have died through drowning and through being
buried under collapsed houses. A feature of the disaster was the collapse of
houses and buildings whose structures became saturated with rain and flood
water. The mud built houses of rural people suffered most. Some 18,000
villages were affected and it is estimated that over one million houses total-
ly collapsed or were badly damaged. In the collapse of such buildings there
was considerable loss of stored grain and seed. Fortunately, mud buildings
can be built reasonably quickly; nonetheless very large numbers of people
suffered privation and were provided with relief from the Government includ-
ing advances to rebuild their homes. More than 3 million acres of the kharif
crop were affected by the flooding and the equivalent of about 2.4 million
acres of crops were totally destroyed. 18 sections of railway lines in
Punjab, 4 in Sind, 4 in Baluchistan and 4 in NWF Provinces were damaged. The
national highway network suffered extensive damage. In the Indus Plains flood



- iii -
waters broke protecting bunds, breached embankments and submerged low-lying
roads. Even where river originating floods did not occur, rainfall stagnated
for weeks alongside roads, saturating the subgrade. When such roads were
opened to traffic, the pavement disintegrated in places, and on long stretches
these roads suffered serious deformation. Telecommunications and power
installations were also affected. About 22,000 telephones, 388 overhead
circuits and 234 buildings were damaged by rain and flood. Some 1,800 miles
of telegraph and telephone lines were damaged as well as about 60 miles of
underground cable.
vii.      Storms and floods caused widespread damage in the irrigation sector.
Severe damage was caused to 13 of the 17 barrages and to seven of the major
link canals. Several serious breaches were made in flood protection bunds,
more than half of the canal system irrigating over 10 million acres was
damaged, and some 1,000 public tubewells and a number of small dams destroyed.
In Baluchistan the 62-ft high Bolan dam was overtopped and washed out.
viii.     Very large numbers of public buildings were destroyed or seriously
damaged. For example, a total of 8,896 educational institutions were dam-
aged of which 6,140 were totally destroyed. Most of these were mud-built
primary schools, but 903 middle schools and 39 high schools were also
destroyed.
Costs of the Floods
ix.       Direct costs of the floods are estimated at about US$193 million
for repairs to the public infrastructure, and US$30 million for the replace-
ment and repair of public buildings. The cost of replacing and repairing pri--
vate housing is estimated at about US$100 million, and losses of crops, live-
stock and farm equipment at about US$256 million. These losses are expected
to result in foreign exchange losses of some US$300 million and an increase
to the country's budget deficit of about Rs 380 million.
The Project
x.        The project is part of the GOP program to restore critical flood-
damaged infrastructure. Total costs of restoring infrastructure to pre-flood
standards are estimated at about Rs 1.93 billion (US$193 million equivalent)
and the priority program for works to be completed before next July at about
Rs 900 million (US$90 million equivalent). Project-financed restoration works
costing an estimated Rs 720 million (US$72 million equivalent) would form 80%
of the priority program. Project activities would be confined to the commu-
nications (railways, roads, and telecommunications) and irrigation sectors
(irrigation, drainage and flood protection) and would include:
a.   restoration of irrigation, drainage and flood protection
works under major contracts between the Federal and Pro-
vincial Governments and contractors;



- iv -
b.   restoration work on roads and railways and part of the
irrigation, drainage and flood protection sector by
Government Departments using a combination of force
account and petty contractors;
c.   provision of spare parts, assemblies and tools for the
repair of Government-owned equipment required for project
construction works;
d.   provision of special equipment such as low-bed transporters,
front end loaders and mobile workshops needed to balance
Government-owned construction fleets and to maximize their
output.
e.   provision of essential materials needed for the restoration
programs such as temporary bridging, railway track components,
and telecommunication cable;
f.   provision of equipment to improve the efficiency of the
Federal Meteorological Department's flood forecasting
and early warning system; and
g.   provision of technical services by foreign and/or
local groups of consultants to:
i.   supervise the implementation of project works and
to assist in preparing applications for disburse-
ments from the credit; and
ii.   assist in the completion of a National Flood
Protection Plan and Action Program, in a review
of the domestic contracting industry and in the
execution of other studies.
All project works are expected to be finished by July 1978, but most works in
the irrigated sector would be completed by July 1977. Individual operations
for inclusion in the project would be identified by the Provincial Governments
and assembled by the Federal Government for approval by IDA. A substantial
proportion of project works, including road works, lend themselves to the
traditionally labor-intensive methods of the Provincial Departments. In
the irrigation sector, however, the main way of moving the large quantities
of earthwork involved will be by mechanized methods. The Provincial Irriga-
tion and Power Departments have been equipped for this role but the extent of
flood damage is well in excess of their capacities to complete the work before
July 1977. The balance of work in excess of Departmental capacity would be
carried out by contractors.
Organization and Management
xi.       General.  Project works would be carried out by, or under the
direction of, the Irrigation and Power Departments (I&PD) and Buildings and



v
Roads Departments (B&RD) of the four Provinces, and by three Federal agencies,
Pakistan Railways, the Telephones and Telegraph Department (T&TD) and WAPDA.
Works executed by the former two Federal agencies and using project financed
materials would be relatively small in extent and well within the capacity of
their work forces and equipment. WAPDA would be responsible for works in the
irrigation sector on major irrigation and drainage projects still under con-
struction and not yet handed to the Provincial Irrigation Departments. All
Departments and Agencies concerned have adequate planning, administration and
supervision capabilities for force account and petty contractor operations.
In order to coordinate and supervise the work Federal and Provincial coordi-
nating committees would be set up. A Federal Flood Damage Restoration Coor-
dination Committee (FDRCC) would be set up in the Economic Affairs Division,
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Development. A Project Coordinating Commit-
tee (PCC) would be set up in each Province. Each would be headed by a senior
official, such as the Additional Chief Secretary of the Province's Planning
and Development Department, and would have as members the Secretaries of I&PD,
B&RD, the Finance Department, and the Flood Relief Commissioner. Consultants
would be employed to assist FDRCC in the supervision of all aspects of proj-
ect implementation including the preparation of applications for payment and
for disbursement of the IDA credit; monitoring project works and procurement;
compiling progress reports; and ensuring the appropriate and timely use of
spare parts. Consultants would also be employed under the project to assist
the Provincial Irrigation Departments in the control and supervision of major
contracts. Such arrangements were employed under Credit 466-PAK and worked
very well. Given the experience of 466-PAK, major problems in project imple-
mentation are not anticipated.
xii.      Pakistan's Federal Flood Commission (FFC) would be responsible for
the implementation of the national flood protection planning component of
the project.
Project Costs and Financing
xiii.     Project costs, excluding import duties and taxes, are estimated at
Rs 929 million (US$92.9 million equivalent). An IDA credit of US$40 million
is proposed which would cover about 43% of project costs and about 92% of
the project's foreign exchange cost. The remaining 57% of project costs
would be met by GOP and the Provincial Governments. It is proposed that
retroactive financing be permitted of expenditures incurred on project
activities since September 1, 1976. Not more than US$10.0 million of poten-
tial disbursements are likely to be involved.
Disbursements
xiv.      The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed as follows:
Government Department direct works US$12.0 million; major civil works con-
tracts US$14.4 million, spare parts and special tools US$3.7 million; special-
ized construction equipment US$6.9 million; special construction materials
US$1.8 million; and consultants' services and equipment US$1.2 million.



- vi -
Procurement
xv.     Major Contracts.  Internatic--  competitive bidding would be in-
appropriate for contracts financed under the project because of the time
constraint. Also, given the lack of domestic mechanized contracting capa-
city local competitive bidding would be unlikely to produce significant
benefits. Major contracts would be let through negotiation with experienced
and capable domestic contractors. The principal of these would be the GOP
owned Mechanized Construction Pakistan Limited (MCP). Contracts would be
based on either measurement of quantity and unit rate of work or on fixed
rates for units of equipment employed over time at various sites. Contracts
of this nature are the only practical way of executing the work in the time
available. Provincial and Federal Government procedures are complex and time
consuming and in order to expedite the procurement of spare parts, equipment
and materials this would be centralized in MCP which has overseas procurement
agents and telex and other facilities. Exceptions would be items required
by Pakistan Railways and T&TD which would manage their own procurement.
Provincial Departments and Federal Agencies would make known their specific
requirements to MCP through the PCC and FRDCC.
Accounts and Audits
xvi.    All Departments and Agencies that would be involved in the project
maintain accounts that are audited by the government Auditor. No change in
accounting systems would be required under the project. However, MCP would
maintain special records and accounts for its procurement activities under
the project and these would be audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA. FDRCC would maintain a master record of disbursements
of the IDA credit in which disbursements would be allocated to individual
Departments/Agencies and tasks.
Benefits and Justification
xvii.      The benefits of investments in restoring damaged infrastructure
are so large as to make any calculation of a cost benefit ratio for the proj-
ect academic. Without restoration, economic activity in Pakistan would dec-
line steadily and irrigated agriculture would degenerate. The restoration of
flood damage has the highest priority for expenditures in Pakistan at this
time. The project would have direct short-term benefits in that it would
bring about improvements in the construction capacity of Provincial Depart-
ments and Federal Agencies through its provision of spare parts and special
equipment. These benefits would extend beyond the 1977 construction season.
Further, it would improve the capability of MCP and other participating con-
tractors by ensuring the provision of foreign exchange for the purchase of
new equipment and spares. Not least, the project would permit completion of
the flood forecasting system and thereby have the potential for saving life
and property in future flood situations.
xviii.      The project would form a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
US$40 million.



PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In the monsoon season of 1976 Pakistan suffered unusually heavy
rainfall. This resulted in extensive and serious flooding as well as much
damage from hill torrents and the direct impact of continued torrential rain.
As a consequence Pakistan incurred substantial losses of agricultural produc-
tion and now faces a major and costly task of rehabilitating a seriously
damaged infrastructure.
1.02      In September 1976 the Government of Pakistan (GOP) asked the Bank
to examine the damage situation and consider ways in which it might provide
financial assistance to help meet the burden of the rehabilitation effort.
As a consequence, a mission comprising Messrs. R. E. Rowe, C. M. Bolt and
W. Sikorski, which was assisted by Mr. E. Zimmer-Vorhaus of the Bank's
Islamabad Office, visited Pakistan in October 1976. This report is based
on the mission's findings.
1.03      The Bank conducted a somewhat similar operation-in Pakistan sub-
sequent to the heavy flooding of 1973.  Then, however, the Bank collaborated
in a joint effort with the United Nations.  A result of the 1973 operation
was an IDA Credit (466-PAK) of US$35 million.  Of the credit, less than half
was applied to financing rehabilitation works and the remainder to a wide-
range of industrial imports, see Chapter II.  This report recommends that an
IDA credit of US$40 million should be made to GOP.  It would differ from 1973,
however, in that the credit would be applied solely to the restoration effort,
specific components of which would comprise a project to be financed with the
credit.
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Pakistan covers about 300,000 sq mi and has a population of more
than 70 million growing at somewhere between 3.0 and 3.5% annually. Per
capita income is low at about US$120, and currently appears to be stagnating
The most important economic sector is agriculture, which generates about 33%
of national income; other principal sectors are industry, 24%, and services,
43%. Agriculture produces about 60% of Pakistan's exports and provides about
58% of employment. About 51 million or 72% of the population live in rural
areas, most of these in the Indus basin where they practice irrigated agri-
culture. Of some 48 million ac that are cultivated annually in Pakistan about
33 million ac are irrigated and account for 80% to 90% of Pakistan's agricu]-
tural production.



-2-
2.02      Pakistan, a federation, administratively comprises four Provinces;
the self-governing territory of Azad Kashmir; and a number of federally admin-
istered tribal areas (FATA). The four Provinces possess considerable autonomy
and are responsible, among other subjects, for agriculture, education, health,
roads, and irrigation and flood protection works. Railways, telecommunications
and power are some of the federally administered subjects.
2.03      Of the four Provinces, Sind and Punjab are the most heavily popu-
lated and economically important and in them are located most of Pakistan's
principal urban and manufacturing centers. Punjab has about 59% of the irri-
gated land, Sind 37%, and North West Frontier (NWF) and Baluchistan Provinces
about 2% each.
2.04      Pakistan comprises two main topographic regions.  By far the most
important is the Indus river basin which covers most of Punjab -nd Sind and
small areas of the other two Provinces, see Map. The other region is the dry
sparsely populated inland basin of Baluchistan. About two-thirds of the Indus
basin is within Pakistan but the headwaters of its main left bank tributaries,
the Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi and Sutlej rivers lie to the north in India. More
than half the annual discharges of the Indus rivers are diverted in Pakistan
into one of the world's largest canal irrigation systems. In the system some
33 million acres of the Indus Plains are served by about 38,000 miles of
canals and by two major storage dams, Mangla on the Jhelum river and Tarbela
on the Indus. Other key components of the system are 17 major diversion
barrages.
2.05      Flows of the Indus and its tributaries usually reach their peaks in
July or August when, fed by Himalayan snow-melt and monsoon rainfall, the
rivers are often several miles wide. Flows decline rapidly thereafter, and
from October through March the rivers are shallow and sluggish and occupy
only a narrow portion of their wide beds.
Floods and Flood-Producing Events
2.06      Floods in Pakistan occur most frequently and are most extensive and
damaging in the Indus Plains along the Indus, Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi and Sutlej
Rivers. Because of quite different hydrologic and topographic conditions, and
their less dense populations, floods in Baluchistan and NWF Provinces are not
so extensive or damaging.
2.07      Floods in the Indus Plains are generated in the mountainous upper
catchment areas of the Indus and its tributaries where intense rainfall,
snow-melt, steep gradients and limited valley storage can cause a rapid
build up of high river flows. On reaching the broad, relatively flat Indus
Plains, flows with elevations only slightly above the river banks can spread
and cause flooding over very large areas. Flood risk is most high during the
July through September monsoon period, when tropical depressions move north-
west into Pakistan from the Bay of Bengal. When these moisture-laden depres-
sions reach the mountainous upper catchment areas of the rivers of the Indus
system, orographic effects produce heavy rainfall which results in high flows
in the rivers.



-3-
2.08      In the Plains the rivers of the system are prone to channel aggrad-.
ation, a gradual rise in the elevation of the river bed, and consequently to
a deterioration in their capacity to carry high flows. This is a natural
characteristic that to some extent has been intensified by heavy withdrawals
for irrigation and the construction of storage reservoirs. In Sind Province,
the Indus River at many locations is higher than the surrounding land.
Flood Protection
2.09      Flood protection is achieved largely through the construction of
flood protection embankments or bunds. In Sind Province, the Indus River is
bunded on both banks for virtually its entire length. In Punjab, marginal
bunds have been constructed at all barrages and major river structures.
These flow-directing embankments protect the works from being by-passed when
the rivers are in flood. Overtopping of bunds occurs only rarely. However,
failures or breaches can occur at any location and result in the unpredic-
table inundation of large areas. Furthermore, irrigation canals can convey
flood waters long distances from the point of river spill. It is not pos-
sible to identify particular river reaches as being prone to breaching but
in the Punjab the general land slope is to the southwest, consequently,
failures of bunds on the left banks of rivers are particularly serious as
water spilled will not drain back into the river. Annex 1 describes in more
detail the Indus Basin, flood-inducing events, and the flood protection
system. Improvements made to bunds in 1973/74 and financed under Credit
466-PAK improved the flood protection capacity of the system.
2.10      Improvement of the existing flood protection system of levees or
bunds along the rivers is the only practical means, in the foreseeable future,
for protection against floods. A technically better solution would be con-
struction of a reservoir complex of sufficient size to provide storage and
thus the control of floods. Unfortunately, there are very limited possibil-
ities for the construction of such a complex at reasonable cost and no such
development would appear economically feasible in the near future. The
Tarbela dam, in part financed by the Bank, performs such a regulating function.
In 1976, however, the Upper Indus River on which Tarbela is located was not a
major source of flood water. Credit 466-PAK financed a review by consultants
of the flood protection system with the objective of determining what was
needed to prepare a plan for feasible improvements to the existing system on a
Pakistan-wide basis. In the interim the four Provinces have prepared, indepen-
dently of each other, provincial flood protection plans. The extent to which
these plans are technically consistent and can be integrated into a national
plan has yet to be determined, as have the merits of the individual plans, see
para 4.15.
Flood Forecasting and Warning Systems
2.11      Over the years (Annex 1, Table 2 lists the 18 very damaging floods
that have occurred since 1948) a flood forecasting and warning system has
evolved.  Significant improvements were made in this after the flood of
1973, the worst in 15 years. In 1976 the benefits of these improvements were
demonstrated when under even more extreme flood conditions losses in life and
property were much lower and the efficiency of relief efforts much higher,



-4-
see (Annex 2). A feature is the Flood Warning Center (FWC) established each
monsoon season at Lahore (Punjab) by the Pakistan Meteorological Department
(PMD). FWC is operated jointly by PMD and the Government of Punjab. Flood
forecasting procedures used by PMD include estimating rainfall in the upper
catchment areas and using hydrological techniques that take account of fore-
cast or measured rainfall, antecedent moisture conditions, time of year, and
river base flow. From FWC flood warning messages are issued to the engineers
in charge of barrages, headworks, and canal administrations. Civil authori-
ties and the general public receive warning messages after approval by the
Provincial Governments.
2.12      Despite the good performance in 1976, improvements can, and need to
be made, in the system. UJnder Credit 466-PAK a study by consultants of the
Flood Forecasting and Flood Warning Systems was financed and, as a consequence
a number of recommendations were made. Financial provision would be made
under the credit proposed in this report to help implement some of these
recommendations, see para 4.12.
Credit 466-PAK
2.13      Credit 466-PAK was appraised in October 1973, approved by the
Executive Directors on March 12, 1974, and signed on March 18, 1974. Of the
credit of US$35 million, US$18.5 million was allocated to finance industrial
imports. The remaining US$17.5 million was allocated to finance activities
directly related to flood damage, for example, the restoration of damaged
infrastructure. These were:
a.   restoration of flood protection, drainage and road
systems, US$10.2 million;
b.   reconstruction of about 16 miles of damaged flood
protection bund by the international contractors,
Tarbela Joint Venture (TJV), US$2.1 million;
c.   review by consultants of the flood prediction,
warning and protection systems, US$0.2 million;
d.   procurement of spare parts and agricultural machin-
ery, US$2 million;
e.   procurement of spare parts, replacement equipment and
materials for flood-damaged tubewells, US$0.7 million;
f.   procurement of equipment for redrilling flood-damaged
tubewells, US$0.9 million;
g.   procurement of spare parts for Government-owned con-
struction machinery, US$0.3 million; and
h.   replacement of meteorological equipment and procurement
of associated communications equipment and spare parts,
US$0.1 million.



-5-
2.14      The credit became effective on May 22, 1974, but physical activities
started earlier, in January. Restoration works carried out by the Punjab and
Sind Governments were completed by end July, and the restoration of the flood
protection bund by TJV by mid-June. All reconstruction works were finished
before the onset of the 1974 monsoon.
2.15      By end July 31, 1974, disbursements of the credit totalled US$7.8
million of which US$5 million for activities directly related to flood dam-
mage, and US$2.8 million for industrial imports. By the end of 1974 dis-
bursements of the Credit stood at US$25 million, and at the end of June 1975
at US$31 million. This rate reflected the excellent progress made in imple-
menting the restoration works and in employing the funds allocated for indus-
trial imports. After June 1975, however, disbursement of the remainder of
the credit lagged and currently US$1.36 million still remains in the Credit
account. The closing date was December 31, 1976 and all of the credit was
committed by that date.
2.16      Much of the success of the physical works program and the prompt
disbursement of funds allocated for this purpose resulted from the use of a
unique system of IDA supervision. In this IDA appointed a consulting firm,
Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners (Gibb), to act as its supervisory consultant.
Gibb staff reviewed the construction programs and cost estimates prepared by
the provincial departments; prepared monthly progress reports; checked TJV
payment certificates and expenditures and expedited applications for disburse-
ment of the credit.  This and the strong coordinating mechanism established by
GOP proved a highly effective combination and-a similar arrangement would be
employed for the credit recommended in this report.
2.17      Unsatisfactory elements of the Credit were the slow use of funds
provided for items (d) and (e) listed in para 2.13, and the limited use made
by GOP up to now of the studies carried out under item c. In the former
cases the problem was the difficulty in effecting clear cut responsibility
between the departments able to benefit from these components and, in par-
ticular, to utilize funds intended for the ultimate benefit of the private
sector; for example, to arrange that spares for agricultural tractors would
become available for purchase by private farmers. In retrospect, planning for
handling these elements was inadequate. In the case of the studies, GOP
utilized those pertaining to flood warning, but has taken no action on the
recommendations concerning flood protection planning. The latter lapse
appears a consequence of poorly defined Federal and Provincial responsibili-
ties. As described in para 4.15, subsequent to the 1973 floods, GOP called
upon the Provincial Governments to present their own flood protection plans,
flood control being a Provincial subject. This action rendered the recommen-
dations of the consultants temporarily valueless since these were intended to
be supportive of a centrally planned flood protection effort which appears the
only satisfactory means of assuring long term protection. This situation has
recently improved with the creation of a Federal Flood Commission with spe-
cific responsibility for preparation of a national flood protection plan.



-6-
III. THE 1976 FLOODS
Causes
3.01      Rainfall in the 1976 monsoon season, June through September, ex-
ceeded the 30-year average except for northern Baluchistan, by at least 50%,
but in many areas by more than 100%; for example, Lahore (Punjab) 175%,
Peshawar (NWF) 230% and Jacobabad (Sind) 128%. For 23 representative record-
ing stations, rainfall in the four months exceeded that of 1973 by about 10%.
Comparative rainfall data are at Annex 2.
3.02      The rains fell in periods of considerable intensity, often in
excess of 100 mm/day, exceeding soil absorptive capacity and causing heavier
than usual runoff. This runoff led to high river flows, local flooding and
to flash flooding that was particularly serious in hill areas.
3.03      Much as in 1973 the Punjab experienced the first impact of the
high rainfall when flows in the Ravi, the most flood-prone river of the basin,
and the Chenab river began to rise rapidly in the second half of July. Seri-
ous flash flooding also occurred. Monsoon depressions continued to move
into Pakistan in August causing widespread rain and thundershowers, as well
as frequent heavy rain in Northern Punjab particularly in the periods August
1-10 and 13-20. Discharges at the Balloki and Sidhnai barrages on the Ravi
exceeded design capacities and on August 15 a highest ever discharge was
recorded at Sidhnai. The two larger barrages on the Chenab, at Trimmu and
Panjnad, also discharged flows in excess of design capacities; on August 10
and 12 respectively. Flooding affected most of Punjab's 21 districts result-
ing from direct rainfall; the induced breaching of protective bunds to pro-
tect key structure, such as the Balloki barrage; and the breaching of protec-
tive bunds and irrigation and link canals.
3.04      Water levels in the Indus started rising in the third week of July
in the wake of heavy rains in its catchment area. When these flows were
joined by those of the left bank tributaries at Panjnad, levels quickly rose
to record peaks. A record discharge of 1,199,000 cusecs was measured up-
stream of the Guddu Barrage on August 15 (the previous record of 1,102,000
cusecs was in 1973) and on August 16 a new record of 1,200,000 cusecs was
established at the Sukkur barrage. Finally, the peak discharge flowed into
the Arabian Sea on August 29 (Annex 2). High flows in the Indus resulted in
numerous breaches in the river's protective bunds and in canals which resulted
in widespread flooding in Sind. This was exacerbated by unprecedented high
rainfall in the first two weeks of September in Sind and Baluchistan which
caused extensive local damage.
Effects
3.05      General.  The floods, which inundated more than 20 million acres,
and heavy rains caused loss of life, the destruction and damage of much pri-
vate property, in particular private houses, and losses of crops and live-
stock. The physical infrastructure of the country was severely damaged.
Pakistan's balance of payment situation has deteriorated and its development
prospects have been retarded.



-7-
3.06      Loss of Life and Private Property.  Four hundred and thirty people
are reported to have died through drowning and through being buried under
collapsed houses. A feature of the disaster was the failure of walls and
roofs of houses and buildings whose structures became saturated with rain and
flood water. The mud built houses of rural people suffered most. Some 18,000
villages were affected and it is estimated that over one million houses were
totally destroyed or were badly damaged. In the collapse of such buildings
there was considerable loss of stored grain and seed. Fortunately, mud build-
ings can be built reasonably quickly; nonetheless very large numbers of people
suffered privation and were provided with relief from the Government including
advances to rebuild their homes.
3.07      Crop and Livestock Losses.  More than 3 million acres of kharif 1/
crops were affected by the flooding and the equivalent of about 2.4 million
acres of crops were totally destroyed. In compensation some areas unaffected
by flooding are expected to benefit from the higher rainfall which, through
improving soil moisture is likely to have increased the yields of rice, sugar-
cane and fodder. Net production gains are expected for sugarcane. Net losses
of agricultural production are estimated at Rs 1,970 million (US$199 million).
Detailed estimates of losses and gains are shown in Annex 3, and a brief out-
line of the damage to crops is given below.
3.08      In the case of cotton the equivalent of 810,00 acres or about 16%
of the total area of 5 million acres planted were destroyed. Net losses are
estimated at about 112,000 tons of lint (620,000 bales) valued at Rs 1,683
million and 30,000 tons of edible oil valued at Rs 198 million. In that of
rice, about 500,000 acres or 12% of the planted area of 4.1 million acres were
destroyed. 380,000 tons of rice are expected to be lost valued at about Rs 580
million. Increased soil moisture is expected to improve yields of unaffected.
areas by about 10% which would reduce the country's gross losses of rice to
about 170,000 tons valued at Rs 386 million. About 83,000 acres of sugar cane
or 5% of the total area of 1.8 million acres were destroyed and 1.2 million
tons of sugarcane valued at Rs 180 million lost. Yields in undamaged areas
are expected to increase by 10% and a net increase in total production of 1.2
million tons valued at Rs 180 million. About 190,000 acres, of maize and
sorghum or 13% of the planted 1.5 million acres, were destroyed. Losses of
94,000 tons of these grains valued at Rs 120 million are anticipated. About
750,000 acres of other crops, fodder, pulses and fruits were destroyed. Gross
losses are estimated at Rs 300 million and net losses at Rs 56 million due to
yield increases of an estimated 10% in areas not affected by the floods. Some
30,000 livestock, cattle, sheep, and goats, valued at about Rs 40 million are
reported as killed. About 12,000 of these were draft animals and this loss
will aggravate a situation where, for several years, farm power has been in-
adequate to meet demand.
3.09      Damage to Communications Infrastructure and Power System.  18  sec--
tions of railway lines in Punjab, 4 in Sind, 4 in Baluchistan and 4 in NWFP
were damaged. About 220 breaches of 2 to 30 ft depth occurred involving an
1/   kharif:  the hot and rainy (monsoon) seasons, April/May through
October.



- 8 -
aggregate of about 2 miles. Settlement and deformation of embankments affected
about 40 miles of main line on the right bank of the Indus and about 70 miles
on the left. From August 17 to 28, 1 76, north-south rail traffic was sus-
pended due to extensive flooding in the 3adu area, and to breaches on the left
bank of the Indus near Khairpur in c         Ad l1 affected lines are now open but
operating speed will be restricted ,ntil permanent repairs are completed.
3.10      The national road network suffered very extensive damage.  In the
Indus Plains flood waters broke protecting bunds, breached embankments and
submerged low lying roads. Where river originating floods did not occur rain-
fall stagnated for weeks alongside roads, saturating the subgrade. When such
roads were opened to traffic the pavement disintegrated in places, and on long
stretches suffered serious deformation. The extent of damage is indicated by
the photographs at the end of this report. Provincial road authorities used
Bailey bridging, and stone and granular material to bridge and close breaches
and to consolidate soft stretches.
3.11      In Punjab about 920 miles of bitumen roads were affected and a
total of about six miles washed out in about 100 breaches. In addition several
bridgesand 45 major culverts were damaged. In Sind about 115 miles of roads
were overtopped by flood water and breached; 160 miles of road were affected
by water reaching the edge of the road and submerging road shoulders; 180
miles were affected by water that stood on both sides and partly overtopped
the pavement.
3.12      In Baluchistan damage was extensive mainly from hill torrents.
Sections of roads were washed out in about 35 breaches. In total about 25
bridges, 200 culverts, 5,000 ft of causeways, 39,000 ft of retaining walls,
90 miles of bitumen surfaced roads and 350 miles of gravel roads were badly
damaged. Road traffic with Sind and Punjab was suspended for a number of days.
NWF and FATA suffered the same type of damages as in Baluchistan with damage
occurring at some 700 places in the road network.
3.13      About 22,000 telephones were affected and 388 overhead circuits and
234 buildings damaged by rain and flood. Some 1,800 miles of telegraph and
telephone lines were damaged, as well as about 60 miles of underground cable.
Normal service was restored promptly, principally through the transfer to the
rehabilitation effort of stores held by the T&TD for further development of
the system.
3.14      Damage to WAPDA power installations was relatively light.  Nine
grid stations were closed down for periods of between 2 to 10 days and 190
villages, 3,700 public and private tubewells and 570 industrial installations
were affected by outages.
3.15      Damage to Irrigation, Drainage and Flood Protection Infrastructure.
Storms and floods caused widespread damage in this sector. Severe damage was
caused to 13 of the 17 barrages and to seven of the major link canals. Sev-
eral serious breaches were made in flood protection bunds, and some 1,000
public tubewells and a number of small dams damaged. In Baluchistan the
62-ft high Bolan dam was overtopped, breached and 80% destroyed.



- 9 -
3.16      Thirty three major canal systems were breached in hundreds of loca-
tions and in many places filled with silt. The damaged canals serve about 70%
of the country's irrigated acreage. Of the link canals, the Marala-Ravi and
BRBD were the most seriously affected. In many cases, damage was aggravated
by the public making cuts in canal banks to drain away water accumulating
against them. Taunsa, Qadirabad and Sidhnai were the most badly affected of
the barrages. Here the most common damage was the shifting of protective
stonework upstream and downstream of the barrages. The drainage systems were
generally overtaxed by the high run-off. On Indus Right Bank the Larkana-
Shikarpur Surface Drainage Project and the Main Nara Valley Drain were com-
pletely inundated because the flood protection bund was heavily damaged by
inflow from the Baluchistan hills. Protective flood bunds on the banks of the
Lower Indus withstood the exceptionally heavy flow except for five breaches at
Ghotki, Rohri, Sehwan, Manjand, and Talti. When the left bank bund at Rohri
was breached, large parts of the Khairpur East Feeder command were inundated,
including the area of the Khairpur II Project which is financed by IDA.
3.17      The dam which was destroyed on the Bolan River was an earth-fill
structure with a capacity of 70,000 ac-ft. More than 80% of the embank-
ment was destroyed when the dam was overtopped and many villages, diversion
dams and canals in the path of the released water were completely levelled.
Further details of damage to transportation and irrigation infrastructure
are given in Annex 3.
3.18      Damage to Public Buildings.  Very large numbers of public build-
ings were destroyed or seriously damaged. For example, a total of 8,896
educational institutions were damaged of which 6,140 were totally destroyed.
Most of these were mud-built primary schools, but 903 middle schools and 39
high schools were also destroyed.
Costs of the 1976 Floods
3.19      Direct Costs.  The following table provides a summary estimate of
the direct costs incurred by the economy. Further details are given in
Annex 3.



- 10 -
Costs Incurred by the Economy
US$ Million
Equivalent
Infrastructure
Irrigation, drainage & public
tubewells                                          99
Communications:  Highways                            78
Railways                            5
Telecommunications                  3
Power                                                 7
Water Supply                                          1
Sub-total                   193         193
Public Buildings                                          30          30
Private Housing                                          100         100
Agriculture
Crop production/a                                   199
Stored grain and seed                                35
Livestock                                             4
Others, such as private tubewells                    18
Sub-total                  256         256
Total                              579
/a   Net losses, see paras 3.07 and 3.08
3.20      Impact on the Balance of Payments.  Pakistan will incur estimated
net foreign exchange losses of about US$300 million because of the flood.
Lost cotton exports and edible oil imported to meet deficits in cottonseed
oil production account for about US$190 million. Losses of stored grain and,
because of damage to irrigation facilities, of rabi 1/ season wheat, amount
to an estimated US$75 million in terms of exports or replacement imports.
Principal offsetting benefits are 200,000 tons of rabi season wheat expected
to result from better soil moisture conditions and valued at US$30 million.
3.21      The above losses will contribute towards an expected balance of
payments deficit of US$1.4 billion in FY77. This is substantially higher
than the US$0.9 billion deficit experienced in FY76. Taking into account
external assistance, a gap of US$300 million is indicated for FY77. It
would appear that this will have to be financed by additional non-project
aid or a draw down in reserves or a combination of both. Reserves at the
beginning of FY77 stood at US$688 million.
1/   Rabi: the cool dry season, November through March.



- Ii. -
3.22      Cost to the Budget.  The FY77 consolidated budget for Federal,
Provincial and autonomous Government agencies projected a residual deficit
of Rs 1.75 billion (US$175 million) after external budget assistance of Rs
12.71 billion. Because of the flood, revenues from cotton exports are
expected to decline by Rs 480 million and expenses to increase by Rs 200
million, a net loss of Rs 680 million (US$68 million). This figure does not
include the estimated Rs 2.23 billion needed to restore infrastructure and
public buildings to the pre-flood situation; GOP intends to meet these costs
by external assistance and by deferring or curtailing development schemes.
Since preparation of the budget other non-flood related changes in revenues
and expenditures have occurred, principally an expected increase in revenue
of Rs 600 million from wealth and income taxes and a loss in excise duties of
Rs 300 million due to lower international prices for rice and the lower than
expected cotton crop. With these developments the budget deficit is expected
to be Rs 2.13 billion instead of the Rs 1.75 billion forecast before the
flood; an increase in the deficit equivalent to about US$38 million.
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The project mainly would comprise components of the GOP program to
restore critical flood-damaged infrastructure before the onset of the 1977
monsoon next July.  Total costs of restoring infrastructure to pre-flood
standards is estimated at about Rs 1.93 billion (US$193 million equivalent)
and the priority program for works to be completed before next July at about
Rs 900 million (Annex 3). Project-financed restoration works costing an
estimated Rs 720 million would form 76% of the priority program (Annex 4).
Project activities would be confined to the communications (railways, roads,
and telecommunications) and irrigation sectors (irrigation, drainage and
flood protection) and would include:
a.   restoration of irrigation, drainage and flood protec-
tion works under major contracts between the Federal
and Provincial Governments and contractors (paragraphs
4.06 - 4.08);
b.   restoration work on roads and railways and part of the
irrigation, drainage and flood protection sector by
Government Departments using a combination of force
account and petty contracts (paragraphs 4.06 - 4.16);
c.   provision of spare parts, assemblies and tools for
the repair of Government-owned equipment required for
project construction works (paragraph 4.09);



- 12 -
d.   provision of special equipment needed to maximize the
output from Government-owned construction equipment
(paragraph 4.10);
e.   provision of essential materials needed for the restor-
ation programs (paragraph 4.11);
f.   provision of equipment to improve the efficiency of
the Federal Meteorological Department's flood fore-
casting and early warning system (paragraph 4.12); and
g.   provision of technical services by foreign and/or
local groups of consultants to (paragraph 4.13):
i. supervise the implementation of project works and
to assist in preparing applications for disbursement
from the credit (paragraphs 4.13 - 4.14); and
ii.  assist in the completion of a National Flood Pro-
tection Plan and Action Program (paragraph 4.15).
4.02      Provincial Departments and Federal Agencies would be implementing
agencies for the project works, see para 4.16. Some highest-priority works
have already been started on force account, and contract works are expected
to begin in January. Project works are expected to be mainly finished by
the end of the current construction season in July 1977; any carry over would
be completed in the following season between October 1977 and July 1978.
Detailed Features
4.03      Restoration Works.  Works to be carried out under the project
would be selected from restoration required at about 2,000 damage locations
in the four Provinces. They would include: for the irrigation and drainage
systems, (i) reconstruction of embankments of dams destroyed, replacing com-
pacted earthwork, internal drainage, stonework, spillways and outlet control
structures; (ii) at barrages, reinstatement of protective stonework on river
control levees (bunds), replacement of stonework scour-prevention aprons in
river beds downstream of barrages, repair of control gates and operating
mechanisms; (ii) repair of canal and drain embankment breaches and erosion,
removal of silt deposited in canals and drains by flood water, repair of
control and cross-drainage structures, bridges, escapes and outfall works,
replacement of damaged canal operation telephone lines, and repair of public
tubewell pump motors, switchgear, power supplies and the restoration of private
tubewells. For flood protection systems, works would include the repair of
bund breaches, erosion and bund roads, replacement of protective stone pitch-
ing, reconstruction of soaking channels, restoration of armoured river con-
trol spurs, all involving compacted earthwork, stonework and structures. In
the case of roads, works would include compacted filling of embankment
breaches, reconstruction of damaged culverts, bridges, retaining walls, pro-
tective bunds, road sections washed out or destroyed by traffic, restoration
of road shoulders and damaged pavement, and construction of additional drain-
age and culverts during reconstruction of embankments (Annex 4).



- 13 -
4.04      Restoration works would involve relatively straightforward types
of work, earthmoving would be predominant, and within the technical capa-
bility of the responsible Departments. However, the volumes of work involved
are very high in the irrigation, drainage and flood protection sector, and
well beyond the capacity of the Departments and available contractors to
handle before next July, see para 4.06. Consequently, a priority program
of works for completion prior to next July has been established, of which
project-financed works would form a part. The priority program has been
established by GOP and the Provincial Governments and comprises works such as
restoring irrigation canals to operation in time for the kharif season (start-
ing in mid-April) and restoring flood protection and drainage capability by
July as shown in the schedule in Annex 10. The table following shows the
quantitites involved in (a) restoring the infrastructure to its pre-flood
condition, (b) the priority program, and (c) the project.
Restoration of Damage to
Irrigation, Drainage Flood Protection and Road Works
Total              Amounts of Priority    Project Restoration
Amounts of Damage       Restoration Works          Work Amounts
Earth  Stone  Struc    Earth  Stone  Struc    Earth  Stone  Struc
Province     -work  -work  -tures   -work  -work  -tures   -work  -work  -tures
(Millions of cu ft)    (Millions of cu ft)    (Millions of cu ft)
/a
Baluch'n       176-  8.4    5.6         96    6.4    4.1         80    2.8    3.5
NWF             97    0.7    5.2        97    0.7    5.2         80    0.7    3.2
Punjab       1,080   59.0    9.2    1,017   30.0    9.2         660   11.9    6.3
Sind        1,262   70.4    6.9        755   38.9    6.9        500   14.7    4.7
Total     2,615  138.5   26.9    1,965   76.0   25.4    1,320   30.1   17.7
/a   Includes reconstruction of Bolan dam.
4.05      The list of individual operations for inclusion in the project was
reviewed during credit negotiations. It will be refined further and agreed
finally with IDA in the course of its first supervision mission, see para
4.18.
4.06      A substantial proportion of project works, including road works,
lend themselves to the traditionally labor-intensive methods of the Provin-
cial Departments and such labor intensive methods would be used wherever
appropriate. In the irrigation sector, however, machinery would be used
where large quantities of earthwork have to be reinstated as a matter of
urgency, where excavation has to be carried out under water (as in the case
of drains and canals), where heavy compaction of embankments is essential,
or where labor is scarce, particularly due to farming operations. It is
estimated that about 60% of the earthwork in the irrigation sector would
be carried out by machines, and 40% (0.5 billion cu ft) by labor intensive
methods under petty contracts. The extent of flood damage is well in excess
of the Provincial Irrigation and Power Departments' capacities to complete
the work before July 1977. The balance of work in excess of Departmental



- 14 -
capacity would have to be carried out by contractors. The table following
shows estimates made of the work that would be carried out by Provincial
Departments and contractors. Further details are given in Annex 5.
Project Civil Works Reconstruction Capacity Requirements
Stonework &
Earthwork       Pavement       Structures
----    Millions of cubic feet--------
Irrigation, Drainage &
Flood Protection Works
Major Contractors (MCP)       400             3.5              5.0
Provincial Departments        860            2.0               2.8
1,260            5.5              7.8
Road Works
Provincial Departments         60           24.6              9.9
1,320          30.1              17.7
4.07      Despite much civil works construction activity in the 1960's,
Pakistan's domestic contracting industry is ill-developed and most private
firms are petty contractors. The few private mechanized contractors are small
to medium sized operators forced, because of difficulties in importing spare
parts and construction machinery to use old equipment whose efficiency is
impaired because of shortage of spares. Recently GOP has classified civil
engineering construction as a designated industry which should make it easier
for construction firms to obtain import licenses and foreign exchange. None-
theless, most construction firms will need to improve their maintenance, spares
and equipment ordering procedures and the quality of their operating and
workshop personnel if they are to benefit from these measures. In view of the
very limited capacity of private civil works contractors, GOP has established
its own construction corporations. Of four GOP owned contracting corpora-
tions the largest is Mechanized Construction Pakistan Ltd. (MCP) which has
considerable resources of technical staff and equipment operators, but has a
high proportion of its large inventory of equipment which is obsolescent or
out of action awaiting spares (Annex 5, Table 2). MCP has the capability to
repair most of these machines but lacks foreign exchange to purchase spare
parts and assemblies or new equipment. The other national construction
corporations are fully committed at Tarbela, Karachi, and elsewhere. The only
major foreign contractor now operating is the Tarbela Joint Venture but all
its equipment is fully committed. Domestic contracting capacity must be
improved and, during negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOP that
before June 1, 1977, it would commission a study of the domestic civil works
contracting industry and prepare a plan for the industry's development for
discussion with IDA before June 30, 1978. Draft terms of reference are at
Annex 6.



- 15 -
4.08      Because of time constraints, the use of foreign contractors is
considered imizactical. Tentative approaches were made to TJV and to other
large internlational contractors, including US companies with previous exper-
ience in Pakistan on the Indus Basin Project and firms in the UK, to enquire
wldecher they would be able to assist with the priority restoration work
suitable for mechanized construction. Although four contractors were prepared
to move equipment to Pakistan, they could not be mobilized until April/May and
would then have to recover most of their expenses over a 60-90 day operational
period. This would lead to excessively high costs. Because of this, MCP
appears to be the sole major contractor capable of participating in project
works at reasonable costs, although other local medium-sized contractors would
also be able to participate. Provided the arrangements described in para 4.24
are followed,MCP and medium contractors would be able to carry out the work
allotted in para 4.07.
4.09      Spare Parts.  The Provincial Departments in Sind and Punjab have
significant amounts of construction equipment, while the Irrigation Depart-
ments in Baluchistan and NWF rely on manual labor (Annex 5). Much of the
Departments' equipment operates below rated capacity because of overdue
maintenance and repairs, or is out of action awaiting spare parts. Timely
execution of project works by the Departments will depend on improving the
output and mobility of existing equipment. The project would provide needed
spare parts and, in order to increase the output of Provincial workshops,
units such as fuel injector, pump, engine, transmission and cable drum assem-
blies. The workshops would also be provided with special tools and equipment
such as for tire and track changing, injector testing and hoisting heavy
assemblies. Details are given in Annex 7. Special attention would be given
by the supervisory consultants to ensure appropriate and timely use of spare
parts, see para 4.13. IDA supervision missions would also pay particular
attention to this matter.
4.10      Special Equipment.  Much restoration work would be located in
remote areas far from main workshops. To maintain construction equipment
in good repair and high output the Departments would be provided with special
equipment such as mobile workshops, trailers, field lubrication trucks, weld-
ing and lighting sets, and mobile cranes, as well as low bed transporters and
outboard motor-driven pontoons. Additional equipment is also needed by the
Baluchistan and NWF Departments to provide balanced construction groups and
increase their productivity. These would include 200 hp tractors, front-end
loaders, graders, earthmoving scrapers, and radio communications sets.
Details are given in Annex 7. Part of these requirements would be provided
under a E 750,000 credit from the United Kingdom which is being negotiated.
4.11      Special Materials.  Some materials which are essential for opera-
tion of construction equipment such as transmission and hydraulic fluids and
high temperature lubricants, are in short supply. In addition, the Roads
Departments need temporary bridging materials including unit-construction
bridges and pontoons for temporary diversions while rebuilding damaged high-
way bridges and culverts. These would be procured under the project as would



- 16 -
be railway track components for use by Pakistan Railways, telecommunications
cable and wire for the Telegraphs and Telephones Department and the canal
communications systems of the Irrigation and Power Departments. Procurement
of spare parts, special equipment and materials would be centralized, see
para 4.27.
4.12      Flood Forecasting and Warning Equipment.  Many of the techniques
and installations recommended in the consultants' report financed by Credit
466-PAK were incorporated in the WMO/UNDP project PAK/74/027 for improving
and modernizing the flood forecasting and warning systems. Under that proj-
ect's meteorological component, a Quantitative Precipitation Measurement (QPM)
Radar Station is to be installed by the Pakistan Meteorological Department
(PMD). Due to delays in GOP approval of the WMO/UNDP project, however,
escalation in equipment costs made it impossible to procure another essential
element of the meteorological component, the Meteorological Satellite Readout
Station (MSRS) for identification and tracking of intense monsoon depressions.
It is also necessary to install a secure, all-weather communications link
between the QPM at Sialkot and the Flood Warning Centre at Lahore, a distance
of 100 miles. The cost of these installations, including imported MSRS
equipment, spare parts, materials, and staff training for operation, data
interpretation and maintenance, would be financed under the project unless
other funding is obtained from the Government of the Netherlands and UNDP by
April 30, 1977. In view of the importance of installing the equipment, PMD
has been instructed by GOP to obtain bids and proceed to select a contractor
for the supply and installation of the equipment without delay.
4.13      Technical Services.  Under the project, consultants would be pro-
vided to assist the Federal authorities in the supervision of all aspects of
project implementation, including: (a) assisting in negotiating and approv-
ing the award of contracts between Provincial Governments and major contrac-
tors; (b) the processing of major contractors' and other applications for
payment and IDA disbursements; (c) monitoring progress on procurement and
project works; (d) preparing progress and completion reports; (e) ensuring the
appropriate and timely use of spare parts; and (f) checking and collating
requests for reimbursements under the IDA Credit. About 50 man-months of
consultants' time would be required for assistance to the Federal authorities
(Annex 5). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that consultants with
experience and terms of reference acceptable to IDA would be appointed by the
Federal Government to carry out the duties described above. Appointment of
the consultants would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit.
4.14      Consultants would also be provided under the project to assist the
Provincial Irrigation Departments in the control and supervision of major
contracts. The consultants' duties would include: (a) preparation of draw-
ings and detailed estimates of restoration works; (b) assisting with contract
negotiations; (c) monitoring construction schedules, use of equipment, and
construction standards; (d) reviewing contractors' applications for payment
before forwarding them to the Provincial and Federal authorities for payment;
and (e) preparing works progress and completion reports. About 55 man-
months of consultants' time may be required for assistance to the Provincial
authorities (Annex 5).



- 17 -
4.15      After the 1973 flood, GOP established a Central Flood Committee
which called for flood protection plans from each Province. These plans are
discrete, disparate in concept, and could be disadvantageous since improve-
ments in some river can be detrimental to others. Under Credit 466-PAK, the
GOP's consultants, Harza Engineering International, produced in February 1976
a report entitled "Appraisal of Flood Management Systems in Pakistan", which
included recommendations for a full-scale, flood protection planning study.
On January 4, 1977 a Federal Flood Commission was constituted, whose functions
include the preparation of a flood protection plan for the country. The
Commission may engage consultants as and when needed by its Secretariat. The
project would provide for consultants to assist a planning unit within the
Commission's Secretariat which would (a) carry out the recommended flood
protection planning study; (b) provide substantive advice to the Commission;
(c) guide the preparation of Provincial flood protection projects; and
(d) liaise with the UNDP Indus Basin Planning Project. About 200 man-months
of consultants' time would be required for the study, see Annex 8. The proj-
ect would provide financial assistance for the employment of consultants and
for short-term training visits overseas for staff of the planning unit.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that by July 1, 1977 the Com-
mission would form and fully staff a unit to undertake the study and that
consultants with experience satisfactory to IDA would be appointed to assist
in carrying out the study, on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. A
draft of the flood protection plan would be available for discussion with
IDA by July 31, 1978, for integration with the Revised Action Plan being
developed by the Indus Basin Planning Project.
Organization and Management
4.16      General.  Project works would be carried out by, or under the
direction of, the I&PD and B&RD of the four Provinces, and by three Federal
agencies, Pakistan Railways, the T&TD and WAPDA. Works executed by the former
two Federal agencies, using project financed materials, would be relatively
small in extent and well within the capacity of their work forces and equip-
ment. WAPDA would be responsible for works in the irrigation sector on major
irrigation and drainage projects still under construction and yet to be handed
over to the Provincial Irrigation Departments (Annex 5). All Departments and
Agencies concerned have adequate planning, administration and supervision
capabilities for force account and petty contractor operations.
4.17      Coordination and Supervision.  To coordinate and supervise the work,
Federal and Provincial Coordinating Committees would be set up. A Federal
Flood Damage Restoration Coordination Committee (FDRCC) would be set up in
the Economic Affairs Division, Ministry of Finance, Planning and Development.
FDRCC would include representatives of the Federal Ministries and Provincial
Departments concerned with the restoration of infrastructure. FDRCC would be
appropriately staffed and would have a Technical Officer as its Secretary.
4.18      The Committee would be similar to that set up in 1973 to handle
activities financed under Credit 466-PAK. FDRCC would be able to call on
the various agencies of GOP for technical assistance including WAPDA. WAPDA



- 18 -
would, when necessary, assist in the negotiation of contracts in the irriga-
tion sector between Provincial Governments and major contractors. WAPDA is
well experienced in this and has reliable unit cost information. FDRCC would
hire consultants to assist it in its work, see para 4.13. Specifically FDRCC
would have responsibility for:
a.   formulating, on the basis of requests made by Provincial
Governments, lists of spare parts, assemblies, special
tools, equipment and materials, for procurement under
the project, and for forwarding these to the procurement
agent with approval for their procurement;
b.   approval of itemized, phased and costed construction sched-
ules (prepared by Provincial Departments and Federal Agencies)
of works to be financed under the project, and for the infor-
mation of IDA. The works would be classified as either force
account (with petty contracts) or major contract operations;
c.   reviewing the estimates of the additional budget funds
required by Provincial Departments and Federal Agencies
to implement their FY77 restoration programs, including
project operations;
d.   arranging with the Provincial Government and with the
Ministry of Finance for the provision of necessary funds
both in local and foreign currencies for the importation
of goods required under the project.
e.   approving and expediting the procurement of goods to be
financed under the project; and
f.   supervising and monitoring all project activities
Project Coordinating Committees (PCC) would be set up for each Province.
Each would be headed by a senior official, such as the Additional Chief
Secretary of the Province's Planning and Development Department, and would
have as members the Secretaries of I&PD, B&RD, the Finance Department, and
the Flood Relief Commissioner. The PCC would be responsible for the coor-
dination of provincial project activities; collating and forwarding to
FDRCC requests for the procurement of spares and equipment; and for estab-
lishing, costing and proposing to FDRCC works programs for financing under
the project. During negotiations assurances were obtained that an FDRCC and
four PCC with memberships and terms of reference acceptable to IDA would be
established. Establishment of these five committees would be a condition of
credit effectiveness.



- 19 -
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of Flood Protection and Drainage Systems
4.19      Report 304a-PAK on the Flood Rehabilitation Program Credit (466-
PAK) commented that, during the 13 years, 1960-1972, that Pakistan was free
of major floods, a number of adverse conditions developed. One of the most
important was that because of scarcity of Departmental funds, the routine
maintenance of flood protection and drainage works was inadequate. Rehabil-
itation efforts that followed the 1973 floods improved the system to standards
above its pre-flood condition, and made up for much of the deficient mainte-
nance. As a consequence and although breaches occurred, the system withstood
the 1976 floods surprisingly well. However, there has been no significant
improvement in the funding of flood protection 0 & M; and this is shown by
the relatively poor condition of much of the equipment allocated for this
work. During negotiations assurances were obtained that GOP would complete,
before December 31, 1977, a comprehensive study of the effectiveness of cur-
rent 0 & M arrangements and produce recommendations for, and establish the
costs involved in, bringing them to satisfactory levels. The study would
examine, inter alia, the adequacy of Departmental equipment fleets, repair
facilities, and arrangements for the provision of spare parts. Assurances
were also obtained that GOP would discuss the findings of the study with IDA
and egree with IDA, by March 31, 1978 on the implementation of a suitable
action program based on the study recommendations. Draft terms of reference
for the study are at Annex 6.
Project Costs
4.20      Project costs net of import duties and taxes are estimated at
Rs 929 million (US$92.9 million equivalent). Civil works costs are based
on the quantities shown in the table at para 4.04 and on current unit costs.
For spare parts, specialized equipment and construction materials the bases
are current unit costs. The costs of consultants services are based on cur-
rently quoted costs. Costs include a provision for price contingencies but
not for physical contingencies as works and procurement financed under the
project would be limited to the fund available and would constitute only a
part of the expenditures that must be incurred by GOP before the next mon-
soon. Costs are summarized in the table below and are given in more detail
in Annex 9.



- 20 -
Project Cost Estimates
% Foreign
Exchange
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Component
1. Civil Works: major
contracts                   96    144    240    9.6    14.4  24.0         60
2. Civil Works: Govern-
ment Departments force
account and petty con-
tracts
Irrigation, drainage
and flood protection       180     60    240   18.0       6.0  24.0
Roads                       180      60    240   18.0      6.0  24.0
Total force account
and petty contracts   360    120    480   36.0    12.0  48.0           25
3. Spare parts and tools         0      74     74       0     7.4   7.4       100
4. Specialized construction
equipment                    8     69      77    0.8      6.9   7.7       90
5. Special construction
materials and assemblies   4       18      22    0.4      1.8   2.2       82
6. Technical Services for
(a) Project Supervision
(b) National Flood Protec-
tion Planning
(c) Flood Protection
System O&M Study
(d) Civil Contracting
Industry study
Government Staff    24        0     24    2.4         0   2.4        0
Consultants           4       8     12    0.4       0.8   1.2       67
Total                28       8     36    2.8       0.8   3.6       22
Project Totals      496    433    929   49.6    43.3  92.9          47
7. Customs duties and
sales taxes                 51      0      51    5.1        0   5.1
Grand Totals            547    433    980   54.7    43.3  98.0         44
/a   Assumed Exchange Rate - Rs 10.00 = US$1.00
Project Financing
4.21      An IDA credit of US$40 million is proposed which would cover about
44% of project costs and about 92% of the project's foreign exchange cost.
The remaining 56% of project costs would be met by GOP and the Provinces
through budgetary allocations to Federal and Provincial agencies. GOP has
indicated that it would meet 75% of all costs incurred by the Provinces in
carrying out the project, employing its own and the IDA funds for this purpose.
GOP assistance would be in the form of budgetary grants. The remaining 25% of
project costs would be met from Provincial revenues. It is proposed that
retroactive financing be permitted for expenditures incurred on project activ-
ities since September 1, 1976. Not more than US$10.0 million of potential
disbursements are likely to be involved. A financing plan is shown below.



- 21 -
Project Financing Plan
IDA        GOP and       Project
Category          Item                      Credit      Provinces       Cost
--------US$ Million equiv.------
I.   Civil works major contracts
(60% IDA:40% GOP)                    14.4          9.6           24.0
II.   Government Department force
account and petty contract
works (25% IDA:75% GOP)              12.0          36.0           48.0
III.   Spare Parts and special tools          3.7          3.7            7.4
IV.   Specialized construction
equipment                           6.9          0.8             7.7
V.   Special construction materials         1.8          0.4            2.2
VI.   Technical services including
consultants                         1.2          2.4            3.6
Total          40.0         52.9           92.9
Disbursements
4.22      Disbursements from the proceeds of the Credit Account would be
as follows:
A.   For Civil Works
(i) 60% of the local expenditures for works carried out
under major contracts, and
(ii) 25% of the local expenditures for works carried out
under Department force account and petty contracts.
B.   For Equipment and Materials
(i) 50% of total expenditures for spare parts and tools.
(ii) For all other equipment and materials, 100% of the
foreign expenditures for directly imported goods and
and 60% of the local expenditures for goods procured
locally.
C.   For Consultants' Services
100% of total expenditures.



- 22 -
4.23      Disbursements for civil works would cover the foreign exchange
element. This is estimated at 60% of the cost of contracts carried out by
MDP or other mechanized contractors and at 25% of the cost of work directly
executed by Departments using a mix of mechanized and labor-intensive con-
struction. Disbursements for works carried out directly by Departments would
be made against summarized statements of project expenditure for petty con-
tract work and materials, and vouchers based on standard Departmental charges
for equipment employed on the works. Expenditures would be certified monthly
by the supervising officials countersigned by each Circle Engineer and by
each District or Chief Engineer; the statements would then be certified as
to accuracy and assembled by FDRCC's consultants, who would also make field
checks on the works. Disbursements for the costs of consultants engaged to
provide technical services would be made against certified invoices. Dis-
bursements against expenditures on spare parts, equipment and materials would
be made against the cif cost of the goods concerned, see Annex 5. All sup-
porting documentation would be held by FDRCC and made available for inspection
by IDA supervision missions. A schedule of estimated credit disbursements is
in Annex 11.
Procurement
4.24      Major Contracts.  International competitive bidding would be inap-
propriate for contracts financed under the project because of the time con-
straint, see para 4.08. Also, given the lack of domestic mechanized contract-
ing capacity, local competitive bidding would be unlikely to produce signifi-
cant benefits. It is proposed, therefore, that major contracts be awarded
through negotiations following solicitation of quotations from experienced and
capable domestic contractors. Contracts would be based on international forms
of contract agreement with schedules of quantities of work to be carried out
and stipulated unit prices. Where measurement of work quantities is not
practicable, e.g. underwater excavation, the contracts would include schedules
of hourly rates for equipment. The contracts would be similar to those used
under Credit PAK-466. All major contracts would be furnished to IDA after
signature to give IDA the opportunity to determine whether the prices and
rates are appropriate before credit funds are released. Contracts of this
nature are the only practical way of executing the work in the time available
(Annex 5). As described in para 4.07 the domestic contracting industry is
constrained by spare parts and equipment scarcities. In order to ensure that
project works are carried out promptly and satisfactorily, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that contractors would receive a 30% mobilization
advance to enable them to purchase spares and additional equipment, and that
GOP would cause them to be provided promptly with import licenses and foreign
exchange authorizations equivalent to 60% (the estimated foreign exchange
component) of their expected contractual earnings.
4.25      Petty Contracts.  These contracts would be awarded under existing Pro-
vincial arrangements for competitive bidding among pre-qualified contractors.
4.26      Spare parts, tools, special equipment and materials.  Provincial
and Federal Government procurements procedures are complex and time consuming.



- 23 -
In order to expedite the delivery of spare parts' equipment and materials,
procurement would be centralized through MCP which has overseas procurement
agents, clearing agents, telex and other facilities. Exceptions would be
items required by Pakistan Railways and T & TD which would manage their own
procurement. Provincial Departments and Federal Agencies would make known
their specific requirements to MCP through the PCC and FRDCC. For equipment
with unit costs of US$5,000 or more, the Departments and Agencies would be
required either to justify their purchase of proprietary items on the grounds
of standardization or request MCP to obtain quotations from at least three
competitive manufacturers. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
procurement of these items would be through MCP and further that such items
would be employed solely to reactivate, equip and maintain balanced and
efficient Departmental construction forces. Copies of requisitions and
invoices would be filed with FDRCC and be available for review by IDA super-
vision missions. MCP would receive a commission of 3 percent for its pro-
curement activities.
Accounts and Audit
4.27      All Departments and Agencies that would be involved in the project
maintain accounts that are audited by the Government Auditor.  No change in
accounting systems would be required under the project. However, MCP would
maintain special records and accounts for its procurement activities under
the project and these would be audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA. FDRCC would maintain a master record of expenditures
under the project, disbursements from the IDA credit, and the disbursements
allocated to individual Departments/Agencies and tasks. This record would
be reviewed quarterly by IDA.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The benefits of investments in restoring damaged infrastructure are
clearly so large as to make any calculation of a cost benefit ratio for the
project academic. Without restoration, economic activity in Pakistan would
decline sharply and irrigated agriculture would 'degenerate. The restoration
of flood damage has the highest priority for expenditures in Pakistan at this
time. As shown in paras 3.19 through 3.22 the flood caused substantial for-
eign exchange and budget losses for which the credit proposed in this report
would only partially compensate.
5.02      The susceptibility of Pakistan to floods, and the occurrence of
catastrophic floods in 1973 and 1976 and heavy flooding in 1975, brings into
question whether GOP now attaches appropriate priority to improving flood
protection. Progress in national flood protection planning since 1973 has
been slower and much less well directed than the seriousness of the situation
would appear to warrant. Further, finance allocated to the Provincial Depart-
ments responsible for the maintenance of flood protection works and for
restoring flood damage would appear inadequate. This is exacerbated by the



- 24 -
generally poor condition of their mechanical equipment.  The current situation
also highlights the inadequacy of the domestic contracting industry. While
it is possible to calculate that floods of the magnitude of 1976 would appear
to have a return frequency of up to 45 years, the occurrence of these cata-
strophic floods following those of 1973 (which had a calculated return of
frequency of up to 40 years) highlights the dangers of complacency. Before
.1973 a degree of complacency existed because of the absence of serious floods
for 13 years. This has now disappeared but it has not been replaced by a
positive, coordinated national program to correct deficiencies. For this
reason it has been agreed that under the project GOP would examine these
problems in depth and discuss with IDA how they may be resolved. Resolution
of these problems would have a beneficial impact of more lasting significance
than those of the proposed investment in project works.
5.03      The project would have direct short-term benefits in that it would
bring about improvements in the construction capacity of Provincial Departments
and Federal Agencies through its provision of spare parts and special equipment.
These benefits would extend beyond the 1977 construction season. Further, it
would improve the capability of MCP and other participating contractors by
ensuring the provision of foreign exchange for the purchase of new equipment
and spares.
5.04      Not least the project would permit completion of the flood fore-
casting system and thereby have the potential for saving life and property
in future flood situations.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations agreements on the following points were
reached with GOP:
a.   an itemized schedule of proposed project restoration works
would be submitted to IDA for its approval (para 4.05);
b.   GOP would commission a study of the domestic civil works
contracting industry and prepare a plan for the industry's
development for discussion with IDA before June 30, 1978
(para 4.07);
c.   consultants with experience and terms of reference acceptable
to IDA would be appointed by the Federal and Provincial Gov-
ernments to carry out the duties described in paras 4.13 and
4.14 (para 4.14);
d.   a flood protection study unit would be established by July 1,
1977 and that consultants with experience satisfactory to IDA
would be appointed to assist in carrying out the study, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 4.15); by
July 31, 1978.



- 25 -
e.   an FDRCC and four PCC with membership and terms of reference
acceptable to IDA would be established (para 4.18);
f.   a comprehensive study of the effectiveness of current flood
protection 0 & M arrangements would be made before December 31,
1977 and recommendations prepared, and the costs involved
established, for bringing these arrangements to satisfactory
levels; and that GOP would discuss the findings of the
study with IDA and would agree with IDA by March 31, 1978
the implementation of a suitable action program based
on the study recommendations (para 4.19);
g.   mechanized contractors would receive a 30% mobilization
advance and that GOP would cause such contractors to be
provided promptly with import licenses for new equipment
and spare parts equivalent to up to 60% of their contrac-
tual earnings (para 4.24);
h.   procurement of spare parts,, tools, special equipment and
materials (except those required by Pakistan Railways
and T & TD) would be centralized through MCP, and that
items so procured would be employed solely to reactivate,
equip and maintain balanced and efficient Departmental
construction forces (para 4.26);
i.   the accounting and auditing arrangements described in
para 4.27 would be employed.
6.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be that the FDRCC and four PCC
had been established (para 4.18); and that supervisory consultants had been
appointed (para 4.13 and 4.14).
6.03      With the above agreements the project is a suitable basis for an
IDA credit of US$40 million.
February 4, 1977






PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
SIND PROVINCE
Bhan - Talti Road (near Sehwan)
IL~~~
Indus Highway
- - f  f     r      s             - -  Wr9~-   -N 4L             
August/Septembher 1976






PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
BALUCHISTAN PROVINCE
Qlueta - Sibi Road
-                                   I
-   A,.  ,-
47~~~~
August/September 1976






ANNEX 1
Fig. 1.1
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
Major Flood Protection Bunds
Typical Construction Arrangements in Vulnerable Reaches
Main bund road
Bund with Wetting Channel, Punjab
/                           - ~~~~~~~~5' Freeboard
-   6              25'       f         Tubewell
~- , -:<____-                __ -T Z-2fl72 - 1 -  |  for filling
_2    wetting
channel
/  /        / We~~tting channel              Mad2 i   un2          ii
We        bund  ~~~Min bund.    L..Assumed seepage
3' Freeboard                Wetting channel                         lit
High flood level
Wetting channels are constructed at places where the soils are
permeable or weak and liable to cause breaches, or where the bunds are
liable to be suddenly placed under pressure by rising flood water. The
wetting channels provide a gradual rise of hydraulic head, so that cons-
truction weaknesses are revealed and can be rectified in advance of the
flood.
Bund road                                    Bund with Stone Pitching, Sind
2' Freeboard
=== ~~~20 _
2' Freeboard             Stone pitching            Assumed seepage limit
High flood level






ANNEX 1
Page l
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
Floods in the Indus Basin
Introduction
1.        Pakistan is topographically divided into two main hydrological
regions, namely the Indus River basin, and the inland basin of Baluchistan.
The former is drained by the River Indus and its major tributaries, the
Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi and Sutlej rivers on its left bank, and the Kabul,
Kurram and Gomal rivers on the right bank. The inland basin of Baluchistan
comprises the area drained by the coastal rivers and a number of desert
streams. The Plains of the Indus basin have been extensively developed
through a network of irrigation canals for irrigated agriculture. In these
Plains, about 38,000 miles of canals command irrigable areas totalling some
33 million acres. During the cool, dry season from October through March,
the rivers are shallow and sluggish and occupy only a narrow portion of
their wide beds. In the summer season, however, when the Himalayan snows
have melted in the catchments during April and May, and when the monsoon
rains have fallen in July, August and September, the flows rise until they
are at high stage and the rivers are often several miles-wide. Under these
conditions the rivers frequently form new courses within the active flood
plain, cutting off large areas of fertile land in a single meander.
2.        The Indus itself rises in a mountainous catchment of 118,000 square
miles, containing some of the world's highest peaks, and only part of which
is in Pakistan, with the remainder lying in Indian-occupied Kashmir and
Tibet. The catchment contains a number of glaciers, some of which are among
the largest known outside the Polar regions and which have an estimated aggre-
gate area of about 14,000 square miles. Snow and ice melting from this catch-
ment probably supply about half the total flow of the Indus in the summer
season. The Indus often attains a width of about 12 miles in the plains
during the flood season, but generally rises more slowly and more regularly
in flood than the other rivers of the basin, due to the sheer size and elon-
gated shape of its catchment. Exceptionally, however, high, early flood f:Lows
occur and in some cases these may be caused by the breaching of natural darms
created by landslides or glaciers. There are very limited possibilities for
the construction of a reservoir complex of sufficient size to provide storage
for control of floods on the Indus at reasonable cost and no such development
would be economically feasible in the near future. Flood protection along
the river will therefore have to continue to depend on measures in the form
of embankments, levees or "bunds," as it has done for over half a century.
3.        Of the eastern tributaries in the plains of the Indus, which preSent
the main flooding problem in the basin, the upper catchment areas of the
Sutlej, Beas, Ravi and Chenab rivers lie almost entirely in India or in India-
occupied Kashmir. India has constructed storage dams in the Sutlej and Beas
basins which may give some small measure of flood control, but Pakistan will
need to continue, and improve, the flood protection measures, mainly in thE
form of bunds, along the river courses in the plains. On the Jhelum river
some flood attenuation is derived from Mangla reservoir, but again protective
measures by bunding will remain the principal means of reducing flood damage.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        The western tributaries in the Punjab plains consist of the Gomal
and Zhob rivers (which, combined, form the Luni river) from the northern
Baluchistan plateau, and a number of hill torrents from the Sulaiman Range.
Flood waters from these torrents and rivers spread over the foothill plains
and are used for basin irrigation. Although in high flood they cause local
inundation and waterlogging, they usually give rise to no significant flood
problem. The only tributaries to the Indus in the Sind plain downstream of
Gudu are the rivers and torrents from the Baluchistan Plateau, including the
Bolan and Nari from the central Brahui Range and the Dhamrao, Gaj Nai and
Baran from the Kirthar Range. These torrents give rise to local flood pro-
blems which are acute in some cases, as in 1976.
5.        High floods have occurred more frequently in the Indus plain during
the last 35 years than over the previous 65 years of record. In the case of
the Ravi river, seven out of the ten highest annual flood peaks observed
during more than 90 years of record have occurred in this recent period. This
may be at least partially attributable to less reliable recording of flows in
the earlier years. On the occasion of some of the recent floods, however,
hundreds of lives were lost, and very considerable damage occurred, with ex-
tensive crop, food and cattle losses. Although the damage was often caused
by breaching of river bunds, the spill from large drainage "nallahs" and the
consequent breaching of canals contributed significantly to the inundation
and destruction of crops. The amount of damage caused in an area subject to
flooding clearly tends to increase if the state of development is rising, and
this may have affected the level of recent losses. In the areas which are
scheduled for a high rate of agricultural development,by tubewells in parti-
cular, it will be necessary to ensure that progress is not undermined by the
effects of flooding, and that reasonable protection is provided.l/ This includes
measures to prevent increases in deforestation and denudation of the upper
catchment areas, which probably contributed to the recent rise in flood frequency.
Flood-Producing Events
6.        Storms.  High floods in the Indus Basin are generally caused by
exceptionally heavy rainfall in the plains and foothills during the monsoon,
superimposed on a base flow from the remaining snowmelt from the upper catch-
ment. The heavy rainfall is usually associated with tropical or monsoon de-
pressions and their accompanying storms which have originated in the Bay of
Bengal and have travelled westwards to the extent that they have reached
Rajasthan and converged with the south-west monsoon. If (as a result of a
wedge of high pressure protruding from Kashmir) the track of a depression re-
curves northwards after the convergence, the rainfall is intensified on reaching
the western Himalayas, and flood-producing runoff occurs over the northern catch-
ments of the Sutlej, Beas, Ravi, Chenab and Jhelum rivers. During the 86-year
period of record (1890-1976), over 50 storms of this type reached the Indus
basin. About half of these storms occurred during the last 30 years, and over
half the damaging floods on the eastern tributaries during the same period have
also occurred since 1944. The incidence of damaging floods on the Indus and
its main tributaries from 1922 to 1976 has been listed in Table 1 of this Annex.
These floods werepractically all caused by storms of the type described above,
with the exception of isolated cases of floods resulting from the bursting of
natural dams. The storms appear to be random occurrences, and no significant
trend towards increased rainfall in the catchment areas has yet been determined.
It is unlikely that the rcent higher frequency of flooding can be attributed to
any cyclical variation in storm activity.
1/ Note that SCARP Khairpur was partially inundated in 1976, after a bund breached.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
7.        Natural dams.  Natural dams represent a special flood hazard and
are known to have been responsible for some of the worst floods in the Indus
basin in the last hundred and fifty years. These natural dams are formed by
the advance of a glacier across a river valley, causing an ice dam, or by
blockage of a river from a landslide. Scars on the mountain sides in the
catchment area show that landslides are common occurrences. Ice dams are
also known to occur frequently on tributaries of the upper Indus. Normally
the force of the river is sufficient to maintain a channel past a landslide
or underneath an ice dam. Occasionally the river flow is completely blocked
and a reservoir then forms behind the natural dam. Such reservoirs usually
find outlet channels through the dams,and drain without any serious consequences.
Sometimes, however, the dam bursts and the water in the reservoir is suddenly
released, with results which can be catastrophic. The places where glaciers
can dam reservoirs on a sufficiently large scale to cause serious floods are,
on the whole, both limited and predictable. The most notorious site for ice
dams is on the Shayok River where Chong Kumdun Glacier has dammed the river
many times. The highest Indus flood ever registered in nearly a hundred years
of record at Attock was on 28th August, 1929 after an ice dam had burst on
the Shayok. Many lesser ice dams have been recorded over the past hundred
years and there is also evidence that major ice dams have breached at other
sites in previous centuries. Landslides, unlike ice dams, could occur almost
anywhere in the catchment area due to geomorphological conditions of the moun-
tains. The disastrous Indus flood of 1841, described by Knight and others,
was caused by the breach of a natural dam where part of a mountain had
slipped and blocked the Indus. This flood may have been worse than any since.
Hewitt quotes accounts of a 23-foot wall of water which emerged from the Indus
gorge and annihilated a Sikh army encamped by the river.   Both landslides
and ice dams could be caused by earthquakes, which, like landslides, would
be largely unpredictable. A persistent repetition of earthquakes has been
recorded from epicentres in the Hindu Kush. Floods of the 1929 or 1841 type
are rare but the potential threat is as great now as it has been in the past.
Flood Damage
8.        The frequent recurrence of damaging floods to which Pakistan has
been subjected within the last 30 to 35 years of high storm incidence, has
resulted in costly losses of private property and damage to public installa-
tions. Estimates of the value of these losses have been made for the period
1948 to 1976, and are listed in Table 2 of this Annex. Of the total esti-
mated average annual damages of about Rs 100 million (US$10 million equivalent)
during the period, almost one-third of the losses occurred on the Ravi which
is reputed to be the most destructive river in the basin. Losses on the Ravi
were particularly severe in 1950, 1954, 1955, 1957, 1973, and 1976, when the
peak discharges in the lower reaches of the river were the six highest in the
period. This correlation does not apply in the higher reaches of the Ravi
nor on the other rivers, where significant damage was caused by overflows
and flooding from creeks or "nallahs" and main drains of inadequate capacity;
and to canal cuts and breaches, in addition to failure or absence of bunds on
the rivers themselves. It has not been possible to differentiate between the
losses due to the various causes. Recent widespread loss and damage aan also
be ascribed to the following factors among others:



ANNEX 1
Page 4
(a)   In the Indus Plains, the capacities of the river channels
have been deteriorating due- to aggradation of river beds,
caused by the depoF   n and accretion of sediment; this
is expected to become wo.se as the canal diversions from
the rivers increasr   _'. furt"er irrigation development
(see para 12).
(b)   With the growth of population, and due to the absence of
high floods over a prolonged period, the flood plains and
drainage channels have been encroached upon for residential,
agricultural, industrial and utility purposes; this has aggra-
vated the flood hazard and damages considerably.
(c)   Inadequate maintenance of bunds and routine clearance of
nallahs and main drains, as a result of insufficient bud-
getary provisions.
9.        These damages can only partly be prevented by the construction of
adequate flood control measures on the rivers themselves, which will be of
limited value if they are not accompanied by the installation of proper storm
drainage systems. Natural drainage is not well developed within the doabs2/
of the Indus Plains. In the northern part of the doabs natural drainage
channels exist, including an abandoned course of the Beas river and which
runs through the Bari Doab. This natural drainage, however, is far from
adequate. To deal with this problem, the Drainage Circles of the Punjab
Irrigation Department started construction of large surface drainage systems
in about 1930 in the northern Punjab, and most of the area which is in need
of surface drainage has now been at least patially covered. Several of these
systems, however, are still inadequate, and at present the Drainage Circles
and WAPDA have started remodelling,or new projects,to enlarge the capacities
of the systems in Baluchistan, NWF, Punjab and Sind. They are, however, pro-
ceeding only slowly. The rates of investment and progress are open to question.
Flood Protection
10.       Where river flooding is not naturally limited by steeply rising
ground, protection of low-lying fertile areas in the basin has been attempted
in many instances by the construction of embankments or bunds along the river
courses. The bunds are generally sited at a sufficient distance from the
normal river channels to provide an adequate waterway for the passage of
flood discharges without causing restriction and excessive velocities. Along
the lower Indus river an almost continuous series of bunds has been constructed
in southern Punjab and Sind, so as to give protection, where warranted, from
Kashmore down to the delta. This has been possible because of the compara-
tively regular extent of the rise in stage of the Indus in flood. The magni-
tude of floods which are probable on the Punjab rivers and the Indus are given
in Table 3, for recurrence intervals of 5, 10 and 50 years. For reference,
the flood peaks which occurred in 1976 at the main barrages, and the design
discharges, are given in Table 2 of Annex 2. The recent flood flows at
Sidhnai, Guddu and Sukkur were higher than previously recorded. The less
1/ Doab is the land between two rivers.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
predictable and more severe variations in flood flow characteristics of
the Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi and Sutlej rivers have made the provision of
protection by bunds more difficult on these rivers. They are accordingly
sited only at locations which experience has shown to be critical, and they
are not generally continuous.
11.       The embankments forming the bunds are usually between 5 and 20
feet in height, with a freeboard of 5 feet above high flood level and a
top width of 12 to 25 feet. Side slopes are normally 1 : 3 on the river
side and 1 : 2 on the country side, though the cross-section is dependent
upon the saturation characteristics of the embankment material used. Four
feet of soil cover is usually provided above the point at which the ori-
ginal ground level is intersected by the saturation line, which generally
has a gradient of 1 : 6. Bunds are frequently constructed with soils con-
taining a medium or low clay content to reduce cracking due to drying out
and, where this is likely to occur, a soaking channel is frequently pro-
vided to enable the bund to be moistened at the beginning of the flood season.
The channels are formed about a foot above high flood level on one or both
slopes of the bund and are filled from an irrigation channel, by pumping or
from a tubewell. A typical cross-section of a bund and its soaking channel
is shown in Fig. 1.1. Soaking channels are usually located on strategically
important bunds and where the river level is liable to rise suddenly against
a bund, or where soils are weak or pprous. Leakage due to burrowing by
rodents can be prevented by meansof a sand core or masonry wall in the bund.
Erosion of the riverside slope can be controlled to some extent by 'pilchi'
revetment of reed or sapling faggots, and by the construction of pitched
spurs where stone is available. The establishment of strips of deep rooting
trees of suitable width in front of the bunds can also reduce flow veloci-
ties sufficiently to prevent erosion. A minor disadvantage of continuous
bund protection is that it creates obstruction to drainage, although this
can be offset to some extent by construction of collector drains behind the
bunds and the relocation of drainage outfalls. All bunds need regular and
effective maintenance, as well as extensive repair after each flood season.
It is questionable whether adequate budgetary provisions are made for maintenance.
Effect of Erosion on Flood Protection
12.       The erosion process by which soil is removed by storm run-off in
the upper catchments is a significant factor in the flood control problem
in Pakistan. When a river in flood is carrying a large sediment charge
the heavier elements of the suspended load are deposited during the falling
stage of the flood as the velocity becomes insufficient to transport the
material. In river reaches which are bunded or which have structures across
them, the tendency is then for the bed material to become coarser upstream,
the bed width of the main channel to increase, and for the bed level to rise.
If this continues on a large enough scale, the freeboard provided for struc-
tures and bunds will eventually be reduced to the point that it will be in-
adequate and unsafe, or the safe capacity will be lessened. This process
is occurring to a measurable extent on the main rivers of the Indus basin,
where regime level changes have been observed over a number of years. Some
results on the Ravi and Chenab rivers are shown in the table below. On the
Ravi river there was a slightly rising trend at Shahdara at the end of the
period of record, while on the Chenab all the sites tabulated were showing
a sharply rising trend in the last few years recorded.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
Regime Changes, Ravi and Chenab Rivers
Site               Discharge   Period       Total change    Rate of change
cusecs                      ft           ft per year
Ravi River:
Shahdara             50,000    1922-56        +0.98             +0.028
Chenab River:
Sherahab            150,000    1922-56        +0.90             +0.028
Haveli              100,000    1922-54        +6.44             +0.198
Rivaz Bridge        100,000    1925-55        +4.25             +0.139
Alexandra Bridge   100,000    1922-56         +1.67             +0.048
Note:  Source: Punjab Flood Commission's draft Flood Control Plan, Vol. IX,
Parts B & C (Ravi and Chenab), 1965.
13.       The observations tabulated were taken above a constriction of the
river such as at a bridge or barrage and were sometimes accompanied by some
retrogression below the site. Nevertheless, the figures indicate that the
water surface level for a given discharge is rising over very considerable
lengths of the Chenab in particular. The outcome will be that on rivers
without reservoirs, the safe discharge capacity of many bunded reaches will
be reduced and failure could occur at progressively lower discharges unless
steps are taken either to raise the bunds in the reaches affected, or to
reduce the erosion and sediment transported from the catchment. The greater
part of the sediment originates either in Indian-controlled territory or in
upland areas in which anti-erosion measures will be lengthy and costly pro-
cesses, if they can be undertaken at all. Under these circumstances, the
changes in regime levels should continue to be constantly observed and taken
into account in planning and carrying out the construction of new protection
works and the maintenance of existing bunds, to ensure that adequate free-
board continues to be provided. It would be preferable for semi-annual
level surveys to be carried out of critical reaches as part of routine opera-
tion and maintenance. Whether adequate provision is made in Provincial budgets
for these maintenance works is open to question.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
YEARS OF DAMAGING FLOODS 1922-1976
Rivers and Discharge (cusecs)
Year      Indus       Jhelum       Chenab        Ravi       Sutlej
1924      644,000
1928                   601,000      686,000
1929    1,000,000      760,000      718,000
1931                   355,000
1932                                332,000
1933                                366,000
1936                                            107,000
1942                                302,000      130,000
1943                                            101,000
1947                                             225,000     425,000
1948                   441,000      432,000
1950                                541,000      193,000     400,000
1951                                                         360,000
1953                   311,000      316,000
1954                                320,000      141,000
1955                                344,000     242,000      687,000
1956                   303,000
1957                              1,100,000      188,000
1958      633,000      730,000      478,000      140,000
1959                   811,000      871,000      200,000
1960                                599,000
1961                                             100,000
1962                                             132,000
1973    1,120,000(L)  270,000   1,006,000        243,000
1975
1976      862,000(M)                706,000      249,000
1,200,000(L)
(L) = Lower Indus (Sind)
(M) = Middle Indus (Punjab)



ANNEX 1
Table 2
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
FLOOD LOSSES 1948-1976
Direct Losses in Rs Million                   Intangible Losses
Government Property       Total
Private   Irri-   Trans-       Historic  1976   Lives  Villages  Area Flooded
Year   Property  gation  portation   Values   Value  Lost   Affected  Square Miles
1948        4        6         2          57       253      151    2,231         2,914
1950     185         8         8         200       849   2,910   10,000          7,000
1951       52        9         2          83       337       25       893        2,155
1952        8        6         2          15        57       -         39           34
1953        0        7         1           8        29       -        261           36
1954      49         7         1          57       215      630    3,747         5,000
1955     157        18         5         180       684      679    6,945         8,000
1956     122        24        10         156       558      160   11,609       29,065
1957       97       41        14         152       513       83    4,498         6,261
1958      31        10        12          53       184       90    2,459         6,863
1959       73       15        12         100       322       88    3,903        4,702
1960        3       16         6          25        77       11    1,278        1,378
1961       58        9         5          72       221       22    2,114        1,861
1962       23        6         5          34       106       13      616           600
1963        3        5         3          11        33        3      478          175
1964     139        15         9         163       461      262    3,382        2,500
1973     N/A       N/A       N/A         N/A               474    9,719        16,200
1976     674       578       382       1,634               425   18,390        32,000



ANNEX 1
Table 3
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
FLOOD MAGNITUDES OF PUNJAB RIVERS
(cusecs)
Location        5-year Flood        10-year Flood        50-year Flood
Indus at
Attock             530,000             570,000               650,000
Jhelum at
Mangla             360,000             520,000             1,100,000
Chenab at
Marala             480,000             660,000             1,400,000
Ravi at
Shahdara           130,000             160,000               230,000
Sutlej at
Ferozepore         430,000             470,000               650,000



ANNEX 2
Page 1
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RE$TORATION PROJECT
The 1976 Storms, the Flood Forecasting and
Warning Systems and Flood Data
Meteorology
1.        The monsoon season is characterized by the occurrence of a
general south west monsoon current. A series of tropical depressions
forms at the head of the Bay of Bengal as the result of the confluence
of southern air currents from the equatorial region and westerlies crossing
the Indian peninsula from the Arabian Sea. These depressions move in a
northwesterly direction until they reach Rajasthan where some of them re-
curve northwards and cause heavy rainfall in the catchment areas of the
Indus Basin, generating high floods in the rivers. The Sutlej and Beas
Rivers are the first to be affected and generally receive the heaviest
rains in their catchments. The intensity decreases steadily to the north
west along the foothills of the Western Himalayas. The upper part of the
Irdus River Basin receives the least contribution from the monsoon rains.
2.        The southwest monsoon current reaches Pakistan towards the
beginning of July, and establishes itself there by the middle of the month.
The Arabian Sea branch, which begins to affect the coastal region by the
end of June, produces stratus clouds that occasionally develop into cumulo-
nimbus and result in thunderstorms. The strength of the monsoon current
increases from June to July, it then remains steady and begins retreating
towards the middle of September. Occasionally, monsoon activity continues
intc October. Some of the highest floods of the Indus River Basin have
been recorded in September.
3.        In the past, the Punjab in general and NTWF on occasions had
experienced devastating floods owing to flood peaks of extremely high
level during the monsoon season. In 1976, the situation was different
because the heavy devastations were not due to overflow of rivers alone.
The persistent rainfall spells at frequent intervals, with occasionally
widespread and heavy durations, also created flooding in these areas. The
southwest monsoon current persisted for a considerable period, and it was
active from the second week of July 1976 until the third week of August 1976
with maximum impact from July 31 through August 9.  The westerly waves move
across the north of the country at a latitude of about 400 and are not
usually acczompanied by frontal systems.  This year some of the waves were
nor :nq4 act.. buie bUt were accompanied by well marked fronts, especially
that which affected NWF from July 31 to August 2 and extended to 330
latitude (see Map).
4.        Seven depressions developed in the Bay of Bengal and out of these,
the second and third affected the eastern part of the country, the first and
fit-h, the western part of the country, the fourth recurved towards the north-
east after moving up to Delhi and the sixth and seventh did not move beyond
Uttar Pradesh and Bihar respectively. During the period of maximum monsoon
acti,Vit,<. -o monsoon depressions had affected the region. The heavier



ANNEX 2
Page 2
rainfall spell that affected the whole of the eastern half during the period
July 31 to August 2, 1976, was due to the synchronization of the effect
of the movement of an active cold front associated with a well marked vortex
in the north and a monsoon depression over the southwest Punjab. The rain-
fall data for the monsoon period are shown in Table 1 of this Annex.
Flood Forecasting and Warning Systems
5.        Existing Systems.  The existing flood forecasting and flood
warning systems have evolved over the years in response to needs identified
as a result of major floods. Significant improvements were made after the
extreme flood of August 1973. During the 1976 flood season, the improved
systems worked reasonably well. However, further improvements are necessary
to enable the systems to be brought to full utilization.
6.        The principal feature of the flood forecasting and flood warning
systems is the Flood Warning Center (FWC) established each flood season at
the Lahore Regional Center of the Pakistan Meteorological Department (PMD).
The FWC is operated jointly by the Punjab Civil Administration (Relief
Commissioner), the PMD, the Punjab Irrigation and Power Department, the
Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), the Police Department and
the Army. The role of the Police is to provide wireless communication to
and from the PWC. The Army assists in rescue and relief operations when
requested by the Civil Administration. Coordination between agencies con-
cerned with flood management activities is maintained throughout the year
through meetings of the Federal Central Flood Committee, the Punjab Flood
Commission, and the Indus River Commission in Sind.
7.        Facilities for obtaining rainfall and river flow data for use in
flood forecasting are still not adequate. The rain gauge coverage is defi-
cient at high altitudes in mountain areas. Stations are operated by severaL
agencies, using different procedures and standards, with variable precision
and reliability. The most critical problem in flood forecasting is the total
lack of timely data on rainfall and river flow from the river catchment areas
under Indian control. The Pakistan Meteorological Department has a weather
radar installation at Sargodha that could be better utilized for estimating
rainfall outside Pakistan but, for this purpose, the location is poor and the
equipment is not the best suited. The forecasting and estimating rainfall in
the upper catchment areas, use is made of data from the International Synoptic
Network, which is relayed from Karachi, and from the Automatic Picture Trans-
mission (APT) weather satellite, which is relayed from Peshawar. In both
cases, communication is excessively time consuming, and provision would be
made under the Project to improve this situation (see para. 17). Communica-
tion from field stations to the forecasters at the FWC in Lahore is by WAPDA
and Police Department wireless networks. The Police Department has recently
added some VHF radio stations to its regular communications network. Ultimately,
88 VHF radio and four relay stations and 67 mobile VHF radio units will be in
operation. These radios will be used both for data reporting and for dis-
semination of flood warning information during the flood season.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.        Flood forecasting procedures developed by the PMD represent con-
siderable advancement over those previously used. To compensate for the
lack of timely data on rainfall from Ir&>i. a technique has been developed
for estimating rainfall in the upper catchment areas based on the direction,
speed, and rate of moisture influx of 7rnsoon depressions. At present,
procedures for application of this tecimnique have been prepared for the
Chenab, Ravi and Sutlej catchments. Older techniques, based on normal
seasonal precipitation, are still being used for the less critical Jhelum
and Indus catchments.
9.        The hydrological techniques used for forecasting flood runoff
and river flood hydrographs, make use of forecast or measured rainfall,
antecedent moisture conditions, time of year, and river base flow. Pro-
cedures have been developed for the Chenab and Ravi rivers near their
entry to Pakistan from India but have not as yet been developed for the
Sutlej, Jhelum, and Indus rivers. The procedures used for forecasting
the time and magnitude of flood peak discharge and stage in the river
system downstream from the "rim" stations utilize an over-simplified
approach. Historical travel times and peak discharge relationships are
used. Modern flood routing methods have not been developed, probably due
to lack of manpower and lack of use of computer techniques, although com-
puter facilities are available.
10.       Flood warning  messages are issued directly to executive engi-
neers at barrages, headworks, and canal circles., Deputy Commissioners
(Heads of Districts) in each flood-vulnerable district and the general
public receive warning messages after approval by the Punjab Relief Commis-
sioner. This procedure creates unnecessary delays in warnings, particularly
in the upstream areas where rescue and relief actions must be quickly mobi-
lized. Warning messages can be made more meaningful if stage and discharge
information is given. Issuing warnings that include expected river stage
will require better flood routing methods and reliable, up-to-date rating
curves at each forecast station.
11.       Existing plans for rescue and relief in flood-affected areas are
coordinated by the Disaster Relief Cell of the Cabinet Division of the Govern-
ment of Pakistan. This unit also supervises the setting up and updating of
the Disaster Preparedness Plans for Provinces and Districts. Rescue and
relief facilities and equipment are supplied by the Civil Administration and,
on request, by the Pakistan Army. The amount of equipment and supplies avail-
able for rescue and relief available with the Army appears to be adequate.
It appears that resources available with the Civil Administration are not
sufficient at this time.
12.       A major deficiency in the flood forecasting and flood warning
systems appears to be in management and utilization of personnel resources.
Training and supervision of field station observers is generally inadequate.
There are too few trained staff in flood forecasting operations and no systematic
training or apprenticeship programs. Turnover or reassignment rates of flood
forecasting staff are high in WAPDA and the Irrigation and Power Departments.
That the systems work as well as they do is primarily due to the dedication
and personal efforts of a few individuals.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
13.       Government Actions to Improve the System.  Following the 1973
floods and with the assistance of World Bank Credit 466-PAK, Government
ordered a consultants study by Harza Engineering on "Flood Forecasting
and Warning Systems" and on "Existing Flood Control Structures and Recommenda-
tions for a Planning Programme" which was completed in October 1975.
Following the recommendations of this study government devised a plan to
improve the flood forecasting and warning systems which consists of three
parts:
Part I    Expansion and modernization of the basic hydrological
data collection and processing system.
Part II   Establishment of a radar hydrology and a meteorological
satellite readout support system.
Part III Establishment of a river and flood forecasting system.
Part I of the program is being implemented with Dutch assistance, Parts II
and III are being assisted by UNDP Project PAK/741027/B/01/16 which was
approved in July 1976 and for which some Technical Assistance Personnel
are already in Pakistan. Over a three-year period, the UNDP Project provides
for 43 man-months of Technical Assistance Personnel and 485 man-months of
counterpart staff. The program provides in particular for automatic tele-
metering stations for flood forecasting, improving the basic hydrological
and meteorological stations (including snow-observations), radar equipment
to observe rainfall over the Indian part of the Indus Basin and the start
of the development of a computerized rainfall run-off model as well as the
monitoring of the flood waves in the rivers.
14.       The projects initiated by GOP are capable of improving flood
forecasting and warning considerably. However, a forecasting and warning
system can probably not decrease the damage of excessive floods by more than
15% and must be supplemented by improved flood control measures. The on-
going Projects require close monitoring to ensure their full implementation.
Beyond these Projects a long-term plan for staff training should be set up
and implemented. Furthermore, the communication system between field stations
and District personnel on the one hand and the Flood Warning Center on the
other needs improvement either through provision of equipment or through
more integrated use of the Army's telecommunication equipment.
15.       Government's ongoing projects do not cover Baluchistan which is
not part of the Indus Basin. However, the hill torrents from this area
which broke the Bolan dam have caused considerable damage in Sind in 1976,
some of which could have been avoided by a better warning system. The improve-
ment of the warning system for these hill torrents requires urgent attention.
16.       The flood warning system is        much hampered by the fact that
no rainfall or flood data are being received from the Indian catchment
areas of the three main rivers. Improved monitoring of the rainfall in
these areas by radar equipment as now foreseen under the UNDP project is
certainly not a very satisfactory solution. Interchange of data between the
two countries on the provision of rainfall and flood data from the catchment
areas is certainly desirable and should be attempted if necessary with inter-
national assistance.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
17.       Flood Forecasting and Warning Equipment.  Many of the techniques
and installations recommended in the consultants' report financed by Credit
446-PAK were incorporated in the WMO/UNDP project PAK/74/027 for improving
and modernizing the flood forecasting and warning system. Under that proj-
ect's meteorological component, a Quantitative Precipitation Measurement (QPM)
Radar Station is to be installed at Sialkot. Due to delays in GOP
approval of the WMO/UNDP project, however, escalation in equipment costs
made it impossible to procure another essential element of the meteorological
component, the Meteorological Satellite Readout Station (MSRS) for identifica-
tion and tracking of intense monsoon depressions. It is also necessary to
install a secure, all-weather communications link between the QPM at Sialkot
and the Flood Warning Centre at Lahore, a distance of 100 miles. The foreign
currency cost of these installations, including imported MSRS equipment, spare
parts, materials, and staff training for operation, data interpretation and
maintenance, would be financed under the project, and is estimated at US$0.3
million, with a foreign exchange component of US$0.1 million.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
RAINFALL DATA FOR SELECTED STATIONS IN PAKISTAN
(mm)
Normal from       A C T U A L   R A I N F A L L
Normal for  1st June to         1st June to 30th September
Stations   Province  the year    30th Sept.
(30 yr av)  (30 yr av)   1976  % of (4)  1975  1974  1973  1972
(1)        (2)         (3)          (4)            -----------(5)
Lahore     Punjab         501         367        1009    275       568   354   871   447
Sialkot    Punjab         897         566        1657    293      1087   433  1707   434
Islamabad  Punjab         878         595        1045    176       809   673   979   238
Murree     Punjab        1441         904        1131    125       903   911   977   636
Khushab    Punjab         362         259         374    144       355    86   515   260
Lyallpur   Punjab         317         232         259    112       425   106   553   205
Multan     Punjab         157         125         324    259       152   108    56    39
Khanpur    Punjab         145         108         119    110       370    00   571    16
Bahwalpur  Punjab         163         153         291    190        86    10   120    68
Peshawar   NWF            308         112         370    330       208    43   392    53
Cherat     NWF            671         300         200     67       311   144    60   123
D.I. Khan  NWF            222          96         275    286        84    86   208   130
Miranshah  NWF            366         138          00              104    52   106    00
Zhob       Baluch'n       277         127         105     83       157    33    33    62
Quetta     Baluch'n       242          25          10     40        53    08    46    09
Dalbandia  Baluch'n        84          07          11    157        10    08    60    07
Kalat      Baluch'n       252          21          56    276        29    00    00    00
Pasni      Baluch'n       139          23          68    296        31    00    20    17
Omara      Baluch'n       164          20          76    380        00    00    17    52
Karachi    Sind           201         118         299    253        97    00   205    37
Hyderabad  Sind           187         153         294    192       130    00    50    25
Badin      Sind           231         183         250    137       123    00    65    49
Jacobabad  Sind            89          57         130    228       223    08    43    04
Source: Pakistan Meteorological Department, Karachi.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
FLOOD PEAKS AND DESIGN DISCHARGES AT BARRAGES
Estimated                         Estimated
Province,    1976 Flood  Recurrence               Design    Recurrence  Previous
River and     Highest      Interval    Date    Discharge   Interval    Highest  Year
Location       Discharge    Years      _                       Years        Peak
(million cusecs)                   (million cusecs)         (million cusecs)
PUNJAB
INDUS:
Kalabagh      0.862          50      8-2-76    0.950          100        0.950    1942
Taunsa        0.675          20      8-7-76    1.000          100        0.760    1958
JHELUM:
Rasul         0.269           3      8-3-76    0.850           22        0.8761/  1959
CHENAB:
Marala        0.549          10      8-1-76    1.100           32        1.100    1957
Khanki        0.615           8      8-1-76    0.800           14        1.0861/  1957
Qadirabad    0.625                   8-2-76    0.900           18       0.854    1973
Trimmu        0.706         15      8-10-76    0.645           13       0.9431/  1959
Panjnad       0.702       25-40    8-12-76    0.700            25       0.8031/  1973
RAVI:
Balloki       0.260_/       15      8-11-76    0.225           13       0.275    1950
Sidhnai       0.2493/4/     35      8-15-76    0.187           16       0.210    1973
SUTLEJ:
Suleimanki   0.115            2      9-7-76    0.325           10       0.5971/  1955
Islam        0.102            2      9-9-76    0.300           16       0.4931/  1955
SIND
INDUS:
Guddu         1.1994/        20     8-15-76    1.200           20       1.102    1973
Sukkur       1.200i/      40-50    8-16-76    0.900           12        1.120    1973
Kotri         0.792          20     8-23-76    0.875           43       0.980    1956
1/  Including flow through breaches.
2/ Includes 20,000 cusecs through breaches and 6,000 through canals.
3/ Includes 41,000 cusecs through breaches; 25,000 cusecs through canal and
9,000 cusecs through spill channel.
4/  Highest of record.



ANNEX 2
Table 3
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
COMPARATIVE 1973/75 FLOOD PEAK DISCHARGES AT BARRAGES
Percentage
Province, River                                                                 difference
and Barrage Site        1973 highest and date         1976 highest and date      with :L973
million cusecs               million cusecs
PUNJAB
Indus
Kalabagh            0.465     August 13           0.862      August 2          + 85%
Taunsa              0.422     August 12           0.675      August 7          + 60%
Jhelum
Rasul               0.270     August  3          0.269       August 3            -
Chenab
Marala              0.770     August  9           0.549      August 1          - 29%
Khanki              1.006     August 10           0.615      August 1          - 39%
Trimmu              0.660     August 12          0.706       August 10         +  7%
Panjnad             0.810     August 17          0.702       August 12         - 13%
Ravi
Balloki             0.243     August 12          0.170       August 10         - 30%
Shahdara            0.180     August 11          0.260       August 11         + 44%
Sidhnai             0.210     August 18          0.249       August 15         + 18%
Sutlej
Suleimanki          0.170     August 15          0.115       August  7         - 32%'
Islam               0.160     August 19          0.102       August  9         - 36%'
SIND
Indus
Guddu               1.102     August 20          1.199       August 15         + 1%
Sukkur              1.120     August 20          1.200       August 16         + 1%
Kotri               0.810     August 30          0.792       August 23         - 1%



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
Description and Estimated Value of Damage due to
1976 Storms and Flooding
Storm and Flood Damage to Infrastructure
1.       Flood and weather damages in 1976 have been considerably more extensive
and costly than in 1973, when most damage was caused in the traditionally
flood prone areas of Punjab and Sind as a consequence of breaches in flood
protection bunds along the Indus and its tributaries. River levels were
generally higher in 1976 than in 1973, and again caused widespread flooding
in Punjab and Sind. However, the damages caused in 1976 were the result
not only of high discharges in the rivers but also of abnormally high rain-
fall in Pakistan. Furthermore, this year's heavy rainfall throughout Pakistan
caused damage from rain storms, hill torrents, and inundation, to extents
not previously experienced in living memory.
Damage to Irrigation, Drainage and Flood Protection Systems
2.       Between the second half of July and mid-September the storms and
floods caused severe damage to most of the country's canal systems,
practically all of the drainage systems, 13 of the 17 barrages, 7 of the
major link canals (including 5 of the Indus Basin Project links), caused
several serious breaches in the protective flood bunds, damaged about 1,000
public tubewells and several small dams, and destroyed the Bolan dam.
3.       Canals.  The canals which were breached and in many cases largely
filled with silt by the flood included those listed below which were
particularly seriously damaged. About 67% of the country's acreage which is
irrigated in kharif by both perennial and non-perennial canals, suffered
damage which will have to be restored by the beginning of the kharif season
in mid-April 1977. About 74% of the acreage irrigated in rabi by perennial
canals was also damaged and unless these are repaired as soon as possible,
the irrigated 1976/77 rabi crop will be seriously affected. Of the link
canals which were damaged, the Marala-Ravi and BRBD were the most seriously
breached. The damage was aggravated by the public who made cuts in the banks
to drain away water which had accumulated against the canals, thus causing
excessive flows and further breaches in the downstream reaches of the canals.
Many canals virtually went out of operation due to breaches or shut-downs
upstream, and in some cases they were heavily silted up as a result of flood
intrusion. In parts of Baluchistan and Sind, canal embankments were complete-
ly destroyed by torrent cross-flow. Repair of perennial canals was put in
hand immediately after the floods receded, to reinstate them for the current
rabi season.
4.       Barrages.  Of the 10 barrages which were damaged in Punjab, the most
seriously affected were at Taunsa, Qadirabad and Sidhnai, of which the latter
two were constructed under the Indus Basin Project. All three barrages in



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Sind were also damaged. In most cases the protective stonework in the river-
bed downstream of the main structure was shifted by the high flows, and will
have to be restored before the next flood season starting in July.
Canal Systems Severely Damaged
Canal                        Seasonal Canal Supply   Cultural Commanded Area.
('000 ac)
Baluchistan
Pat Feeder                           Kharif)                    380
Kirthar                               Kharif)
Bolan System                         Kharif )
Hub System                            Kharif )
Kachhi Sihi District                  Kharif )                  100
Nazirabad District                    Kharif )
Untam System                          Kharif )
NWF
Kabul River                           Perennial                 123
Upper  Swat                           Perennial                 277
Lower Swat                            Perennial                 169
Warsak System                         Perennial                 119
Pehur                                Kharif                      80
Kurramgarhi                           Kharif                     40
Kohat District                        Kharif                     60
Punjab
Thal                                  Perennial               1,641
D.G. Khan                             Kharif                    872
Muzaffargarh                          Kharif                    656
Rangpur                               Kharif                    343
Upper Jhelum                     60% Perennial                  543
Lower Jhelum                     85% Perennial                1,500
Marala-Ravi Link                      Kharif                    105
Upper Chenab                     40% Perennial                1,445
Lower Chenab                      95% Perennial               2,981
BRBD Link & Central Bari Doab         Perennial                 595
Lower Bari Doab                       Perennial               1,575
Sidhnai                          60% Perennial                  754
Panjnad                           30% Perennial               1,346
Sind
Ghotki                                Kharif                    513
Dadu                                  Perennial                 394
Khairpur F. East                      Perennial                 330
Rohri                                 Perennial               2,480
Kalri Baghar F.                   40% Perennial                 274
Perennial canal commanded area severely damaged   13,864
Kharif canal commanded area severely damaged          5,831
Total severely damaged, '000 ac                      19,695
Grand Total of canal commanded area in Pakistan                29,400



ANNEX 3
Page 3
5.       Drains.  The drainage systems in Lahore, Sargodha and Lyallpur
Regions of Punjab were generally overtaxed by the high runoff resulting
from prolonged heavy rainfall. On the Indus Right Bank in Sind, the
Larkana-Shikarpur Surface Drainage Project and the Main Nara Valley Drain
were completely inundated by inflow from the torrents from the Baluchistan
hills, which breached the 100-mile long Main Nara Valley Flood Protection
Bund (FP Bund) in many places. These areas normally drain into Manchar
Lake, which discharges into the Indus River near Sehwan. However, the
discharge capacity of the drainage channel was inadequate to prevent the
level of Manchar Lake rising to an unprecedented height, and causing massive
inundation. The situation was further worsened by the destruction of the
62-ft high Bolan dam, which caused general destruction along the path of
the water released. About 500,000 acres remained inundated in the area of
the Main Nara Valley Drain in November. Drains were overtaxed also on the
Lower Indus left bank throughout Guddu barrage command which was badly hit
by storms; in Khairpur Feeders and Rohri Canal commands due to a disastrous
breach north of Rohri; and in the Thatta region, especially of Khotri
barrage command, due to a severe storm in early September. Widespread damage
has been caused to drains as a result.
6.       Flood Bunds.  Apart from the considerable damage to the Nara FP Bund,
the highly important river bunds along the Lower Indus withstood the except-
ionally heavy flow except where five breaches occurred at Ghotki, Rohri,
Sehwan Manjand, and Talti. Although the breach at Ghotki was contained, the
breakthrough at Rohri was potentially very serious since about 200,000 cusecs,
which discharged through a breach north of Rohri town, cut the main north-
south lines of communication and flowed into the Eastern Nara river canal.
It was fortunately diverted into the desert before further extensive damage
could be done to the large canal systems in South Eastern Sind. Large areas
of the Khairpur East Feeder command were inundated, however, when the right
bank of the Eastern Nara canal breached, including the Khairpur II Project
which is being financed by IDA. There were numerous breaches in Punjab on
the Ravi at Sidhnai, on the Chenab near Multan, Muzzaffargarh and Jhang, and
in NWF.
7.       Dams.  The dam which was destroyed on the Bolan River was in earth-
fill structure 1,600 ft long and with a maximum height of 62 ft. It was
reportedly designed and built in 1961 by the Baluchistan Government's Central
Engineering Authority in collaboration with the Irrigation Department, at a
cost of US$3.6 M equivalent, and the reservoir held 70,000 ac-ft of water for
irrigation. The embankment consisted of about 30 million cu ft of earthfill,
and the ungated spillway had a design capacity of 10,500 cusecs. More than
80% of the embankment was destroyed when the dam was overtopped; many villages
and diversion dams in the path of the released water were completely levelled,
and the Pat Feeder and Kirthar canals located downstream were severely damaged
as a result.
8.       Water Sector. The total quantities of earthwork, stonework and struc-
ture damaged and to be restored in flood affected embankments, control struc-
tures, syphons, outlets, outfalls, barrages, flood bunds and dams are shown
below for each Province. The value of the damages are given in paragraph 9.
The quantities of high priority restoration work to be carried out in the
current season are shown adjacent.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Irrigation, Drainage and Flood Protection Works
Quantities of
Total Quantities of Damage           Priority Restoration Works
Earthwork  Stonework  Structures   Earthwork  Stonework  Structures
--- Millions of cubic feet ----    ---- Millions of cubic feet
Baluchistan      169-/       4.6        2.8            89         2.6         1.3
NWF               81          -         4.0            81          -          4.0
Punjab           912          -         5.6           912          -          5.6
Sind             628 2/     6.4         3.9           628         6.4         3.9
458 3/
WAPDA(N)          49          -         0.3            49          -          0.3
WAPDA(S)          88         2.0        0.4            88         2.0         0.4
2,385       13.0        17.0         1,847        11.0        15.5
----  Millions of cu yd ----         ---- Millions of cu yd ----
88        0.48        0.63           68         0.41        0.57
----  Millions of cu m ----          ---- Millions of cu m ----
68        0.37        0.48           52         0.31       0.44
1/ Includes the reconstruction of Bolan dam.
2/  Punjab Irrigation Dept. intends carrying out this amount in FY77.
3/  Punjab Irrigation Dept. intends carrying out this amount in FY 78.
9.       Value of Damages to Irrigation Infrastructure. The estimated amounts
of damage to the irrigation, drainage and flood protection systems are given
in the following table. These are based on detailed quantitative estimates
prepared by the Provincial Governments and WAPDA in mid-October for each dam
damage location. However, since large areas, amounting to about 500,000 acres,
are still inundated in Sind and Baluchistan, these estimates are tentative.
Because the unit rates for carrying out work adopted by the Provincial
Governments are not only inconsistent but are also unrealistically low in solae
cases, the costs must be considered provisional and subject to increase. In
consequence, local cost adjustments, physical and price contingency factors
have been applied where shown, and are based on estimates by Bank staff.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Summary of Estimated Value of Damage to Irrigation, Drainage
and Flood Protection Works
(Based on Provincial Government Estimates, Mid-October 1976 -/)
Restoration Work
Province (Department)                Earthwork   Stonework    Structures    Total
--------------Rupees Million----------------
Baluchistan (I & P Dept.)/                39          3             16           58
NWF and FATA (Irrigation Branch, PWD)    9            -             24           33
Punjab (I & P Dept.)                     112          -             30          142
Sind (I & P Dept.)                       296          5             25          326
WAPDA                                     37          2              5           44
subtotal               3/            493         10            100         603
Local cost adjustments -  -                                                  287
Contingencies (IDA estimates):-
Physical                                                                   60
Price                                                                      40
Estimated Total Value                                                 990
1/ Based on restoration cost, excluding special machinery and spare parts
procurement by Provincial Departments.
2/ Includes reconstruction of Bolan dam.
3/ Due to averaging of Provincial unit rates, and large amount of major
contract work.
Damage to Communications Infrastructure
10.       Railways.  The flood damage affected railway lines on 18 sections in
Punjab, 4 in Sind, 4 in Baluchistan and 4 in NWF. About 220 breaches of 2 to
30 ft depth occurred in total, aggregating a length of about 2 miles. Addition-
ally, a considerable length of track was affected through settlement and
deformation of embankments: about 40 miles of the main lines on the right
bank of Indus on the Kotri-Dadu section, and two sections totalling about 70
miles of the main line on the left bank of Indus. Before the flood, the rail-
way authorities had constructed a loop of about 5 miles on the Kotri-Dadu
section at Laki Shah Saddar near Sehwan, to by-pass a section of the line
situated too close to the river bend. The river eroded the bank and part of
the line collapsed. The new loop requires considerable improvement, however,
and a temporary by-pass of the collapsed section is under construction.
During the 11 days from August 17 to 28, 1976, rail traffic between North
and South was completely suspended because of the extensive flooding in the
Dadu area on the West bank of the Indus, and due to the breaches on the East
bank near Khairpur; special arrangements were made to supply the North of the
country with fuel by a transhipment by road between Khairpur and Sukkur. The
affected lines have been re-opened, but train speed is restricted until
permanent repairs are completed.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
11.       Value of Damages to Railways.  Pakistan Railways estimated the cost
of restoring the line to orginal standard at about Rs 50 million, including
Rs 5 million equivalent in foreign exchange to replace the stock of sleepers,
timber, and structural steel used for the repairs. The estimate is based on
a detailed estimate of repairs at each location where the damage occurred.
The loss in revenue earnings due to the flood is assessed at Rs 86 million.
12.      Damage to Roads.  Of the 6,400 miles of bitumen surfaced roads in
Punjab, about 920 miles were affected by floods. A total length of about 6
miles was washed out in about 100 breaches. Some bridges and 45 culverts were
damaged. The main damage occurred to the roads along rivers Indus, Chenab
and Ravi. The berms were washed away and pavement seriously affected. The
damage to pavement continues to increase under heavy traffic, since some of the
affected roads carry over 4,000 vehicles per day. Deep rutting and undulations
have occurred on long stretches of low lying roads. On some sections, over
pockets of loam, the pavement has crumbled and sunk, and Bailey bridging has
been used to cross the resulting quagmires.
13.      Floods, torrents and rains have damaged about 20% of Sind's black-
top road network of 3,132 miles. Numerous culverts and bridges have been
damaged and whole road sections washed out. Certain sections were still under
water in mid-October. The Provincial authorities categorized the affected
roads in three groups: (A) - roads where flood water overtopped and breached
the embankment; (B) - roads where water reached the edge and submerged road
shoulderes; and (C) - roads where water was standing on both sides or partly
overtopped the pavement but caused less damage. Initial estimate provided to
GOP in mid-September listed respectively in each category 100, 160 and 180
miles. Resumption of traffic immediately after the floods subsided had caused
further damage to the pavement, particularly on the low lying roads. This
damage is progressing andis expected to increase later due to the shrinkage oi
subgrade. The highway department reassessed the damage in October and found
that the length in Category (A) was 115 miles, and in Category (C) was 170
miles. The damage appeared to be much more serious than estimated initially.
The most affected area is Dadu District, where about 50% of road damage is
located.
14.      Torrential rains in Baluchistan caused considerable damage to the
highway network in this province. Sections of roads were washed out in about
135 breaches; a number of culverts, bridges and retaining walls collapsed;
some river flow directing spurs were destroyed. In total about 25 bridges,
200 culverts, 5,000 ft of causeways, 39,000 ft of retaining walls, 90 miles
of black-top roads (out of a total of 1,585 miles) and 350 miles of gravel
roads (out of 5,230 miles) were affected. The traffic was suspended for a
number of days on roads leading to Sind and Punjab, paralyzing the export of
fruit and causing shortages of fuel.
15.      The NWF  highway network suffered generally the same types of damage
as Baluchistan: the torrential flow in nullahs, streams and rivers damaged
culverts, bridges, retaining walls and protection works, causing landslides,
breaching embankments and washing away some road sections. In NWF, damage
occurred in about 500 places throughout the road network. Restoration of
damage would require about 135,000 cu yd of earth works, 75,000 cu yd of
masonry, 2,000 cu yd of reinforced concrete and extensive repairs to the
bitumen pavement.  In FATA, similar damage occurred in about 200 locations.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
16.       Roads Sector.  Present estimates indicate that the total restora-
tion and remedial works required for roads would involve about 230 million
cu ft of earthwork, 125 million cu ft of stonework and pavement, and
structural work to the value of Rs 60 million.
17.      Value of Damage to Roads.  In September 1976, the Punjab Road
Department estimated priority restoration work of the affected network at
Rs 72.4 million, and the remedial measures to prevent recurrence of flood
damage in future at Rs 265.7 million (mainly for raising embankment and
additional culverts). Due to the subsequent damage by traffic(paragraph 10),
the cost of priority restoration was reassessed at Rs 100 million. This
amount would cover the work indispensable to restore tolerable traffic
conditions. The distribution of damage restoration by departmental circle
is as follows:
Restoration and         Priority
Circle                 Remedial Works           Restoration Works
(Rs million)             (Rs million)
Rawalpindi                  46.4                      13.8
Sargodha                   100.9                      29.8
Lahore                      88.9                      26.2
Multan                       33.0                      9.7
Bahawalpur                  68.9                      20.5
Totals, Punjab           338.1                     100.0
18.      On the basis of early inspections,  the estimated cost of road
restoration in Sind, including additional drainage crossings, strengthening
of pavement and, at places, raising the road formation, was given as Rs 210
million. In October when most of the flood waters subsided, the Provincial
Road Department reassessed the situation and increased the estimated cost
of restoration to Rs 375 million, and proposed to phase the works over
three years: 1976/77 to 1978/79. The cost of priority works which could
be carried out within the period of the Project is estimated at Rs 80
million. The distribution of damage restoration by District is as follows:
Restoration and         Priority
District               Remedial Works          Restoration Works
(Rs million)             (Rs million)
Dadu                       171.0                      36.4
Nawabshah                   16.4                       3.5
Sanghar                     18.8                       4.0
Tharparkar                   8.0                       1.8
Badin                       14.8                       3.2
Hyderabad                   11.6                       2.2
Thalta                      28.4                       6.0
Sukkur                      39.0                       8.6
Jacobabad                   20.0                       4.2
Khairpur                     8.6                       2.0
Larkhana                    36.0                       7.6
Karachi                      2.4                       0.5
Totals, Sind             375.0                      80.0



ANNEX 3
Page 8
19.      The first estimate of road damage restoration for Baluchistan,
as submitted to GOP, was Rs 39 million. It was reassessed subsequently to
Rs 52.7 million (Rs 53 million rounded), including black-topping of some
damaged pavement. The priority work to be carried out within the period of
the Project is estimated at the initial amount of Rs 39 million. District-
wise distribution of some damage restoration is shown below:
Final
District                Restoration                Priority Works
(Rs million)               (Rs million)
Quetta                     10.36                        7.70
Zhob                        2.63                        2.00
Sibi                        8.32                        6.20
Loralai                     4.39                        3.20
Kachi                       6.90                        5.10
Chagai                      6.70                        4.80
Kharan                      0.40                        0.30
Kalat                       6.95                        5.20
Bela                        6.05                        4.50
Totals, Baluchistan        52.70                       39.00
20.      Due to the localization of the damage, the estimate of the
restoration works in NWF was more precise and remained as submitted to GOP.
The distribution by Districts is as follows:
District                Restoration Works
(Rs million)
Peshawar                      5.10
Hazara                        3.40
Mardan                        1.58
D.I. Khan                     0.22
Kahat                         0.85
Chitral                       0.76
Swat                          0.77
Dir                           0.35
Malakand                      0.97
Totals, NWF               14.00
The cost of the road restoration works in FATA is estimated at Rs 4.00
million.



ANNEX 3
Page 9
21.      The total cost of restoration work and remedial works to the road
system would be as follows:
Summary of the Estimated Value of Damage to Roads
Restoration and          Priority
Province         Remedial Works            Restoration Works
(Rs million)              (Rs million)
Punjab                 338.1                    100.0
Sind                   375.0                     80.0
Baluchistan             53.0                     39.0
NWFP                    14.0                     14.0
FATA                     4.0                      4.0
Total           784.0                    237.0
Total for Roads
under Project
(rounded)         240.0
22.      Telecommunications.  About 22,000 telephones were affected during
the flood. A total of about 1,800 miles of telegraph and telephone overhead
lines were damaged and 388 routes were interrupted.   About 60 miles of under-
ground cable were affected. In one place an interruption occurred in the
coaxial cable due to the flow of water, and in another due to the collapse of
the supporting pillars.
23.      The estimated expenditure for repairs of the flood damage to the
telecommunication system is Rs 28.32 million, of which Rs 6.21 million concerns
buildings and appraoch roads. The cost of stores used for restoration work,
mainly cables and wires, is estimated at Rs 12.0 million.
Power
24.      Power System.  The damage to the WAPDA power system due to the floods
was confined mainly to the transmission lines, grid stations and distribution
systems. Nine grid stations were closed down for periods of between 2 to 10
days; 1,046 miles of high tension lines and about 200 miles of low tension
lines were put out of order, while 190 villages, 3,700 tubewells and 570
industrial installations were affected by outages. Power supplies were
generally restored in less than 10 days, the National Grid continued to
operate normally, and there was no loss to WAPDA's generation system due to
the floods.
25.      The value of damages to the power system have been estimated by
WAPDA at Rs 72 million, consisting of Rs 60 million in grid stations and
transmission lines, and Rs 12 million in damage to other installations and
civil works. Revenue losses are estimated at Rs 8.3 million.



ANNEX 3
Page 10
Housing and Buildings
26.      According to preliminary estimates, over a million houses were
badly or partly damaged, of which over 100,000 were completely demolished.
In Sind, many people are still under temporary shelters provided by the
Government, since large areas remain inundated. The Government has embarked
on a reconstruction program including large-scale rehabilitation, rebuilding
and moving of villages to safer locations. Almost 9,000 schools, colleges
and universities were affected, of which over 6,000 were totally destroyed.
Damage also occurred to hospitals, health centers and clinics, more than
200 being demolished. Water supply schemes were also seriously damaged,
particularly in Baluchistan and NWF.
27.      The estimated value of damage to private housing, schools,
hospitals, clinics and other public buildings is as follows:
Building and Housing Losses
(Rs million)
Punjab    Sind    NWFP   Baluchistan   Total
Housing             300      390      260        50         1,000
Schools              45       97       54        59           255
Hospitals and
Clinics             4        3        3        15            25
Other Public
Buildings           9        5     n/a        n/a            14
Total, Rs million  358       495      317       124         1,294
Agriculture
28.      More than 3 million acres of kharif crop were affected by the
flooding. The damage can be estimated at the equivalent of about 2.4
million acres totally destroyed. Other areas unaffected by flooding
have benefited from the higher rainfall with increased yields for rice,
sugarcane and fodder. The net losses of agricultural production are
estimated at Rs 243 million (US$24.3 million). Detailed estimates of
losses and gains are shown in Table I. The following crops and agricul-
tural production facilities were affected:
(a) Cotton. The equivalent of 810,000 acres of cotton or about 16
percent of the total area of 5 million acres were destroyed. The
beneficial yield impact of additional soil moisture in unaffected
areas was offset by increased pests. Net losses are estimated at
about 112,000 tons of lint (620,000 bales) valued at Rs 1,683
million and are fully reflected in reduced exports. The losses
of edible oil production amount to 30,000 tons valued at Rs 198
million.



ANNEX 3
Page 11
(b) Rice. About 500,000 acres or 12 percent of the planted area of
4.1 million acres were destroyed and some 380,000 tons of rice lost.
The increased soil moisture imprvved yields of unaffected areas by
about 10 percent which would cut the net losses to about 170,000 tons
of rice valued at Rs 386 million.
(c) Sugarcane. About 83,000 acres or 5 percent of the total sugarcane
area of 1.8 million acres were destroyed with the loss of output of about
1.2 million tons valued at Rs 180 million. However, yields in undamaged
areas probably increased by 10 percent which would cancel out the above
production loss.
(d) Maize and Sorghum. About 190,000 acres or 13 percent of the planted
1.5 million acres were destroyed amounting to the loss of 94,000 tons of
grains with the value of Rs 119 million.
(e) Other Crops. These crops include mainly fodder, pulses and fruits.
About 750,000 acres or 11 percent of the total planted area of 6.9 mil-
lion acres were destroyed with loss of Rs 300 million, but the net losses
were limited to Rs 56 million after allowing for yield increase of 10
percent in unaffected areas.
(f) Livestock. About 29,000 head of livestock (buffalo, cattle, sheep,
goats) were lost during the flood valued at Rs 40 million including about
12,000 drought animals. Also considerable-number of poultry were lost.
(g) Tractors. No tractors are reported to be lost during the flood.
However, to replace the 12,000 drought animals about 400 additional
tractors would be required.
(h) Wells. About 7,400 wells were damaged of which 5,600 were tubewells.
These damages amount to about Rs 70 million. It is expected that a larger
part of these tubewells will not be working during the Rabi season
1976/77. Therefore, wheat yields would be reduced by about 50 percent
on 560,000 acres with losses of about 105,000 tons of wheat valued at
Rs 146 million.
(i) Irrigation Canals. Damage to irrigation canals including the break
of the Bolan Dam in Baluchistan which had a capacity of 72,000 acre-feet
would reduce water availability for about 400,000 acres during Rabi season.
Wheat production on this area would be reduced by about 6 maunds/acre
(224 kg/acre) totalling 90,000 tons with a value of Rs 125 million.
(j) Losses of Stored Grains. Losses of grains in public, commercial and
on-farm storage can be estimated at 250,000 tons valued at Rs 347 million.
(k) Government Installations. Damage to forestry nurseries and processing
installations are estimated at Rs 5 million and damages to other installa-
tions for agriculture and fisheries at Rs 6 million.



ANNEX 3
Page 12
29.       The estimated value of agricultural losses is given in Table 1
of this Annex. However, the production of all rabi crops after the 1973
flood exceeded the five-year average for these crops, mainly due to
increased soil moisture, by the following percentages: wheat, 6 percent;
rape and mustard, 5 percent; barley, 20 percent; Gram, 13 percent; Masoor,
27 percent; Mattar, 23 percent; and other rabi pulses, 103 percent. Drawing
on this experience, the gross increase in rabi production resulting from the
1976 flood might be about $50 million on this basis. After deducting the
losses of rabi crops because of damages to tubewells and irrigation faci-
lities, the net gain might be $30 million. There are, however, a number of
uncertain factors involved, including the greater extent of inundation,
the climatic conditions during the remainder of rabi, and the state of the
canal.
30.       A summary of the estimated value of the agricultural losses is
given in Table 2 of the Annex.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
Estimated Damage for Main Kharif Crops, 1976
Output             Crop Loss       Net
Cropped Area                         Yields              Projection                 in Flood      Change
Crop and          Before       After    Totally         Before          After       Before         After      Destroyed   in Total
Province          Floods      Floods   Damaged          Floods         Floods       Floods-2/      Floods       Fields      Output
---      '000 acres     ------         ------ kg/at-----         -----'000 tons -----    '-T000 tons ----
Co'-ton
Pluniab            3,700       3,340         360           335             335         1,240        1,119         -121        -121
Sind               1,280         830         450           475             475           610          394         -214        -214
Subtotal           4,980                     810                                       1,850        1,513         -335        -335
Rice
Punjab             2,170       1,980         190           561             617         1,220        1,220         -107           -
Sind               1,850       1,480         370           714             785         1,320        1,160         -260        -160
Baluchistan           90          50          40           374             410            34           21          -15         -13
Subtotal           4,110                     600                                       2,574        2,401         -382        -173
LuZarcane
Puni.'b            1,300       1,250          50        14,000         15,400         18,200       19,250         -700       1,050
Sind                 260         235          25        14,500         15,900          3,770        3,740         -360         -30
N'WFP                240         232           8        15,000         16,500          3,600        3,800         -120         200
Subtotal           1,800                      83                                      25,570       26,790       -1,180       1,170
,Maize and Sorghum
Punjab               650         570          80           542             542           352          309          -43         -43
Sind                  58          35          23           243             243            14            8           -6          -6
NWFP            i   800          710          90           486             486           390          345          -45         -45
Sabtotal           1,508                     193                                         756          662          -94         -94
dtbher Crops         ------- '000 acres --------          ----- Rs/acre -----           --- Rs million ---        -- Rs million  --
(Fodder, etc.)
Pu-njab            5,100       4,620         480           400             440         2,040        2,030         -192         -10
SLnd               1,500       1,370         130           400             440           600          600          -52           -
Baluchistan          330         190         140           400             440           130           84          -56         -46
Stubtotal          6,930                     750                                       2,770        2,714         -300         -56
GICRND TOTAL      19,330                  _2,436
1/ Area totally and partially damaged consolidated.
2! Expected.
3/  Prices                Rs/md         Rs/ton
Sugarcane
Punjab            5.75           154
Sind              5.90           158
NWFP              5.50            147
Maize              32.00            856
4.b   1 bale (Pakistan) = 396 pounds   180 kg.
December 16, 1976



ANNEX 3
Table 2
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
Agriculture Losses: ctops, Inputs and Facilities
Value
Cropped                        of Loss
Area     Output      Unit   At Export
Damaged     Lost      Price    Prices
'000 ac  '000 tons   $/Ton       US$M
A. Crop Damage
1. Cotton: Lint                       810        112      1,520      170
Edible Oil                            30        650       20
2. Milled Rice: Basmati (43%)  )    600          170        237       39
Coarse (57%) )
3. Maize and Sorghum                  193         94        128       12
4. Fodder & Other Crops:
Gross Effect         750       ($30M)        -        -
Net Loss                                     -        6
Subtotals:  Crops Damaged,       2,436                        -  247
B. Increased Output (Deduct)
5. Sugarcane: Flood Loss               83    (.L,200)
Net Benefit                    (1,200)                (18)
6. Rabi Crops, net benefits                                         -(3W
_(48)
Subtotal:  Crop Damage                                            199
C. Other Damage                            Quantity
1. Livestock                          29,000 heads                     4
2. Tubewells                           1,800 number                    7
3. Forestry and Fisheries            installations                     1
4. Stored Grain                      250,000 tons                     45
5. Agri. and Fisheries               installations                     -
Subtotal:  Other Damage                                            57
TOTAL AGRICULTURAL DAMAGE                                         256
December 16, 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
Restoration Works to be Carried out under the Project
1.        Scope of the Project.  The total amount of restoration work that
has to be carried out to restore the damaged public infrastructure is esti-
mated to cost over Rs 1,500 M (US$150 M equivalent). Due to resource
constraints, however, the scope of the Project has had to be limited to
works with a total restoration cost of about Rs 740 M (US$74 M equivalent),
with a foreign exchange component of US$40 M. The works to be carried out
under the project will therefore be restricted to public infrastructure
which has high priority for restoration. The Federal and Provincial
Governments will accordingly allocate the priority works for substantial
completion, so far as possible, before July 1977. The works will include
those urgently needed for irrigation operations, drainage and flood protec-
tion systems, roads, railways and telecommunication installations, the
rehabilitation of private tubewells damaged or destroyed, and for the
installation of supporting equipment for the Federal flood forecasting
system.
2.        Irrigation, Drainage and Flood Protection Works.  The following
works will have to be carried out to restore the damage described in Annex 3:
(a) Irrigation systems: repair of breaches, including reconstruc-
tion and compaction of canal banks; removal of silt deposited
by flood water; reconstruction of damaged control structures,
cross drainage works, bridges, and the restoration of tele-
communications for canal operations.
(b) Drainage systems: Removal of silts deposited by floods; repair
of control structures, breaches and outfalls works.
(c) Flood protection works: Repair of breaches involving compacted
earthwork and restoration of bund roads; replacement of stone
pitching, reconstruction of soaking channels, including recon-
struction of tubewells; and restoration of river control spurs,
involving compacted earthwork and stone pitching protection.
(d) Dams: restoration of embankments, involving compacted earthwork,
stonework, and internal drainage systems; spillways, and outlet
control structures, involving mansonry or concrete construction;
and access roads.
(e) Public tubewell installations: involving repair of pumps, motors,
switchgear and power supply facilities.
(f) Barrages: Reinstatement of stonework protection on bunds and in
river beds downstream; repair of control gates and operating
mechanisms.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
3.        The following table indicates firstly the estimated quantities
of earthwork, stonework and structural work which have high priority for
restoration in the irrigation systems within the jurisdiction of each
Province and WAPDA. These quantities are provisional, and are likely to
be modified when the total extent of damage is known in areas which are
presently inundated, particularly in Baluchistan and Sind. Secondly, the
table indicates the lesser quantities of work which will be carried out
under the Project within the limitations of the finances available under
the credit, and according to the priorities established and agreed with
the Federal Government. The quantities generally exclude any flood pro-
tection improvement works which are scheduled to be carried out in FY78
by the Provincial Governments and WAPDA.
Restoration of Damage to Irrigation, Drainage and Flood Protection Works
Priority Restoration             Project Restoration
Work Quantities                 Work Quantities
Earthwork Stonework Structures Earthwork Stonework Structures
---Millions of cubic feet ----  --- Millions of cubic feet ---
Baluchistan       89       2.6       1.3           58       1.6        0.7
NWF               81         -       4.0           53        -         2.0
Punjab          912          -       5.6          620        -         2.8
Sind            628        6.4       3.9          440       2.9        1.8
WAPDA(N)          49         -        0.3          32        -         0.2
WAPDA(S)          88       2.0       0.4           57       1.0        0.3
1,847      11.0       15.5       1,260       5.5        7.8
-- Millions of cubic yards --    -- Millions of cubic yards --
68       0.41      0.57          44       0.20       0.28
-- Millions of cubic meters --   -- Millions of cubic meters --
52       0.31      0.44          34       0.15       0.22
4.        The total estimated cost of the priority irrigation, drainage and
flood protection works is Rs 500 million. They will be carried out by the
Provincial Irrigation Departments and WAPDA according to their usual
standards, methods and procedures, using (a) force account with petty con-
tracts, and (b) major civil work contracts. The foreign exchange components
of these procedures are respectively estimated at 25% and 60% of the total
cost. To increase the construction capacity of the construction equipment
available with the Provincial Irrigation Departments (Annex 5), the Project
would include provision for rapid procurement of spare parts and spare



ANNEX 4
Page 3
assemblies for the existing equipment, and some supplementary and special
equipment, amounting to a cif value of about US$ 6.1 million (see Annex 6).
5.        Roads.  The damage to the road network is so extensive that it
will take at least two years to restore the roads fully to the pre-flood
conditions. Some improvement works, such as raising of embankments, pro-
viding new pavement, additional culverts and strengthening of pavement,
are considered essential to prevent future flood damage. However, the
Project would include only the priority works which can be carried out
within about one year and which are indispensable to ensure tolerable
traffic conditions on the affected roads. Such works would comprise,
inter alia:
(a) filling in of breaches in embankments;
(b) reconstruction of damaged culverts and bridges;
(c) reconstruction of retaining walls and protective bunds;
(d) clearing of landslides;
(e) reconstruction of road sections washed out, or destroyed by
traffic;
(f) restoration of road shoulders;
(g) restoration of the damaged pavement;
(h) additional drainage and culverts in reconstructed embankments.
6.        The priority restoration works would vary in type and volume and
will be dispersed in several hundred locations throughout the country. The
total estimated cost of the priority road restoration works is Rs 240
million. They will be carried out by the Provincial Road Departments under
their usual procedures, by contracts and force account method. The foreign
cost component of such works is estimated at 25% of the total cost. To
help in execution of the works, the Project would include provision of funds
for the purchase of spare parts for the existing equipment, some supple-
mentary and special equipment, and bridging assemblies. The credit amount
for the procurement of these items would be Rs 24 million, Rs 20 million
and Rs 5 million equivalent respectively. The following table shows the
roadwork restoration quantities required to be carried out under the project.
Restoration of Damage to Roads
Priority Restoration               Project Restoration
Work Quantities                   Work Quantities
Earthwork Stonework Structures Earthwork Stonework Structures
& Pavement                        & Pavement
--- Millions of cubic feet ---  --- Millions of cubic feet ---
118       65.0        9.9         60        24.6        9.9



ANNEX 4
Page 4
7.        Railways.  The project would include the cost of materials used
for repairs to railway damage, estimated at Rs 5.0 million equivalent, as
well as the provision for special bridging equipment estimated also at
Rs 5.0 million equivalent.
8.        Telecommunications.  As the restoration works are carried out by
the Federal Telephone and Telegraph Department's own forces, the Project
would include only the replenishment of the stock of materials used for
the repairs, estimated at Rs 12 million equivalent.
9.        Restoration Schedule.  In general, the Federal and Provincial
Departments intend to restore the high-priority, damaged works to pre-
flood standards so far as possible before the next monsoon, i.e. by the end
of June 1977. The restoration works within this category are expected to
be scheduled approximately as follows:
Infrastructure                    Priority Restoration Works
Irrigation, Drainage and Flood Protection        Completion Requirements
(a)  Perennial (rabi and kharif) canals        As soon as possible, to
provide rabi irrigation
supplies during current
season.
(b)  Perennial (kharif) canals                 Before start of kharif
season, i.e. by mid-April,
for 1977 kharif season
irrigation supplies.
(c)  Flood protection bunds                    Substantial completion by
end June, 1977.
(d)  Drainage systems                          Substantial completion by
end June, 1977.
Communications:
(e)  Roads                                     To be made passable as soon
as possible and provide
tolerable traffic conditions
by end June, with complete
restoration by end June 1978.
(f)  Railways                                  As soon as possible.
(g)  Telecommunications                        As soon as possible.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
10.      The total quantities of work to be carried out to restore the high
priority and project works would be as follows:
Restoration of Damage to Irrigation, Drainage, Flood
Protection and Road Works
Priority Restoration                Project Restoration
Work Quantities                    Work Quantities
Earthwork  Stonework   Structures  Earthwork Stonework   Structures
& Pavement                          & Pavement
--- Millions of cubic feet ----       ---- Millions of cubic feet ---
1,965        76.0         25.4       1,260        30.1        17.7



ANNEX 5
Page 1
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECTS
Civil Works Organization, Coordination and Restoration Capacity
Organization
1.       While the implementation of the project will be administered and
coordinated by the Economic Affairs Division of the Federal Ministry of
Finance, Planning and Development, the execution of flood damage restoration
works under the project will be the responsibility of the Federal and Pro-
vincial Departments concerned, including WAPDA, Pakistan Railways, the
Federal Telegraphs and Telephones Department (T & TD), the Pakistan Meteoro-
logical Department (PMD), and the Provincial Irrigation and Power Departments
(I & PD), Buildings and Roads Departments (B & RD), or Communications and
Works Departments (C & WD). All project works will be controlled by staff
of these Departments, whether the works are executed by force account and
petty contracts, or by major civil works contracts. The Government authori-
ties, Departments and their Heads who will be responsible are indicated in
Table 1 and in the organization chart attached to this Annex.   The
Provincial Irrigation and Road Departments are subdivided into Circles and/
or Districts. Most of the irrigation and highway work is carried out by
petty contracts, the contractors supplying labor, transport and materials,
and renting machinery, mainly compaction equipment, from the Departments.
Large-scale Earthworks are carried out generally by the departmental forces.
The project would not call for any significant changes in the organization
patterns established, with the exception of the need for formal coordination
at Provincial and Federal levels, the centralized procurement of equipment,
and the use of major civil works contractors.
Executing Departments
2.       The Federal and Provincial Departments which will participate in
the project have adequate managerial and administrative capability to execute
the force account and petty contract works. They have sufficient trained
staff and manpower to control and supervise the project works except for
the major contracts. Figure 5.1 outlines the organization structure for
the project, while the following table indicates the management and senior
executives for the project works.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Project Coordination
3.       At the Federal level, a Committee is to be set up in the Economic
Affairs Division, Ministry of Finance, Planning and Development, and will
be known as the Flood Damage Rehabilitation Coordination Committee (FDRCC).
The Committee will be the coordinating agency for the implementation of the
project. The FDRCC will include representatives of the Federal Ministries
as well as representatives of the Provincial Planning and Development, Irri-
gation, and Communications and Works Departments. FDRCC will be chaired by
an Additional or Joint Secretary and will have a small, full-time staff
cadre, a Secretary who will be a technical Officer on Special Duty, and
technical support from a firm or an association of engineering consultants,
as was the case in the 1974 Flood Rehabilitation Credit.
4.       The FDRCC would be responsible for monitoring progress of the pro-
ject through information obtained from the Provincial Planning and Develop-
ment Departments and from their consultants (see para 8). The FDRCC will
convene monthly progress meetings in Islamabad which will be attended by the
Federal and Provincial representatives concerned. The minutes of these meetings
will be sent to IDA with progress reports of the Departments and consultants.
FDRCC's consultants will be responsible for preparing completion reports on
the works finished by end June 1977 and on those completed by June 1978. The
Secretary of the FDRCC will fonrard these reports to IDA. The FDRCC will also
be responsible for reviewing the process of procurement of goods to be financed
under the Project, including spare parts, spare assemblies, special equipment
and materials required by the Provincial Departments, and for centralizing
their purchase through Mechanized Construction Pakistan Ltd (MCP). They will
also ensure that the goods are imported and delivered expeditiously, parti-
cularly when passing through the port of entry. The FDRCC will also expedite
the weather satellite reading equipment to be procured for the PMD; vehicles
and equipment required for project consultants; and the major civil works con-
tracts between competent contractors and the Provincial Governments. The
FDRCC would also be responsible for setting up procedures for expeditious pay-
ment of local currency and foreign exchange to major contractors on the basis
of monthly vouchers, certified by the consultants and submitted to FDRCC
through the Provincial I & PD (see para 8).
5.       The FDRCC will be responsible for the engagement of the consultants
to the Federal Government for the project, for the satisfactory implementation
of the Development Credit Agreement, for drawing IDA's attention to any
related difficulties, and for expediting applications for disbursements pro-
vided for under the Credit.
6.       Project Coordination Committees (PCC) will be established at the
Provincial Government level. One of the PCC's main concerns will be to en-
sure that budgetary provisions are adequate at all times to enable the execu-
ting departments to implement the project, particularly as the work will be
outside scope of the Annual Developing Plans (ADP). Another concern would
be that staff provisions for executing the project works are adequate, since
the Departments may be expected to carry out ADP works simultaneously with
flood damage restoration works. The PCCs may also need to ensure that the
maintenance budget for flood protection and drainage works are increased,



ANNEX 5
Page 3
prior to the 1977 flood season (see Annex 6). The Senior Federal and
Provincial authorities will maintain regular contact with the Chairman
of the FDRCC concerning any constraints affecting the implementation of
the project at Provincial level.
Project Supervision Consultants
7.       Consultants will be employed by the Federal Government to assist
the FDRCC in supervising the project. The consultants will check the pay-
ment statements from major contractors and claims made by them, review their
progress and that of Provincial Departments on project works, check Provincial
Department expenditure statements, review them with the appointed auditors,
check the receipt and distribution of spares and new equipment, review work-
shop progress in restoring equipment, assist FDRCC in making prompt applica-
tions for disbursement under the Credit, and make progress reports for for-
warding to IDA. They would also prepare a completion report on the project.
The consultants will have had considerable experience in dealing with major
contractors and force account works, and will also employ experienced mechan-
ical engineering inspectors for reviewing workshop production. They should
preferably obtain advice from other consultants experienced in IDA project
procedures. The Federal consultants will consist of an association of foreign
and local firms. The cost of their services would be financed under the project.
8.       To assist the Provincial Departments, the consultants will review
the construction schedules of major contractors and record the deployment of
their equipment, and would be required to supervise the technical execution of
the works if previously instructed to do so by the I & PD. They will also
promptly check the major contractors' monthly statements of work carried out
(with foreign exchange and local currency payments due), certify them when
correct, and forward them to the Provincial I & PD for processing. They will
assist with and expedite the processing of certificates of I & PD and B & RD
force account and petty contract expenditure; with reports on progress of
all restoration works to the Provincial Government and the FDRCC; and with the
preparation of accumulated monthly expenditures by Departments, for forwarding
to the FDRCC. They would also be required to report on the progress on the
rehabilitation of equipment, its disposal to work sites and the effectiveness
of its use on the sites, in collaboration with the executing Departments. They
will be expected to attend meetings of the PCCs and to provide constructive
recommendations with regard to the earliest possible completion of the priority
works to be carried out under the project.
Implementation Activities
9.       The following activities would require implementation under the pro-
ject, administration and management by the Departments concerned, coordination
by FDRCC, and funding by the Provincial or Federal Governments:
(a) Form and activate Federal Flood Damage Restoration
Coordinating Committee
(b) Form and activate Provincial Coordinating Committees
(c) Select, appoint and activate the project consultants



ANNEX 5
Page 4
(d) Select, approve, authorize and monitor project
works schedule
(e) Identify and procure spare parts, equipment,
materials, flood forecasting equipment and supplies
for the project
(f) Negotiate and implement major restoration work
contracts for large-scale irrigation, drainage
and flood protection works.
(g) Execute Department force account and petty
contract restoration works for irrigation,
drainage, flood protection, roads, bridges,
railways and telecommunications
(h) Install flood forecasting equipment and train
Meteorological Department operators
(i) Form and activate national flood protection
study unit
(j) Select, appoint and activate consultants to
Federal Flood Commission for national flood pro-
tection study, produce reports and review findings
with IDA (by July 31, 1978)
(k) Form and activate unit for study of O&M of flood
protection works, produce report and review findings
with IDA (by December 31, 1977)
(1) Form and activate unit for preparation of report
and development plan for civil works contracting
industry, produce report and review findings with
IDA (by June 30, 1978)
(m) Prepare applications for Credit disbursements
(n) Prepare progress and completion reports.
Construction Capacity
10.      Irrigation Departments.  The capacities of the Provincial Depart-
ments to undertake construction work vary considerably.  Baluchistan's I & PD
has to rely almost entirely on labor-intensive petty contractors, since it
owns only tubewell drilling eqiupment. The Province's Machinery Maintenance
Department, however, has more than 100 light bulldozers and two fully-equipped
workshops which, with suitable new supplementary machinery, could make a use-
ful contribution to the restoration works. NWF's PWD also has practically no
equipment suitable for large-scale earthmoving, and although it has access to
large labor resources, they are probably not adequate to match the restoration
requirements. Punjab's I & PD has a Mechanical Circle (and is about to form
a Machinery Cell) which is reasonably well equipped with earthmoving equipment
(see Table 2), although a high proportion of some essential plant is out of
action or in urgent need of spare parts already ordered. Some of the equip-
ment, however, has already been committed to Punjab's Annual Development Plan
(ADP) for irrigation in FY77, and the amount of surplus capacity will be deter-
mined by the amount which can be diverted and by the quantity of additional
machinery and spares which can be rapidly procured. Sind's I & PD has, like
Punjab, recently taken delivery of new equipment. As can be seen from Table 1
in this Annex, a satisfactory number of Sind's earthmoving units are in service-
able or working order. However, the amount of equipment available for project
works will also depend on the quantity diverted from Sind's ADP for irrigation
in FY77, and the supplementary support equipment available.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
11.      Roads Departments.  The Provincial road construction equipment fleets
are generally old, disparate and short of spare parts for repairs. As a
result, at least 50% of the equipment is usually out of service and awaiting
repairs. The highway workshops have sufficient capacity to carry out repairs,
provided spare parts and tires, engine, transmission and other assemblies,
and supplementary workshop tools are speedily available. The capacity to
carry out the road reconstruction component of the Project within the time
allotted can be evaluated on the basis of the work carried out annually by
the Provincial Road Departments. In Punjab, the Annual Development Program
(ADP) for the current fiscal year includes a roads budget for about Rs 400
million. The work is subdivided into about 250 small road betterment pro-
jects (schemes), entrusted to about 300 petty contractors under competitive
bidding. In Sind the ADP budget is Rs 270 million, and provides for about
200 schemes also carried out by petty contractors. The Provincial highway
authorities were confident that they would be able to carry out an addi-
tional annual workload of damage restoration of about Rs 250 million through-
out the whole country, without impeding the execution of the current ADP.
The traditional method of execution partly by force account and mostly by
petty contractors would be used. However, all provinces expressed the need
for supplementary earthmoving equipment and additional means to transport
the equipment to the widely dispersed work sites.
12.      The gap between the total available Provincial earthmoving capacity
(see Table 2) and the restoration output needed, will depend on the labor
and donkey availability. This gap could be reduced in three ways: by the
purchase and fast delivery of spare parts and-spare assemblies for repairing
Provincial machines awaiting them; by accelerated purchase and delivery of
some additional excavation and supporting machinery for the Provincial
Departments; and by employing major civil engineering contractors to carry
out the larger, relatively compact restoration works, in the manner adopted
by WAPDA, and as TJV were employed by GOSind in 1974 under the 1973 Flood
Rehabilitation Credit (466-Pak). The project will provide for all three
approaches.
13.      Civil Engineering Contractors.  The largest mechanized contractor
domiciled in Pakistan is the Government-sponsored, Lahore-based Mechanized
Construction Pakistan Ltd. (MCP). The company has considerable resources
of technical staff and operators, though a high proportion of their exten-
sive inventory is obsolete and awaiting spares (see Table 3). Most of this
equipment was taken over by MCP from their predecessors, the Machinery Pool
Organization (MPO), at the time of their formation in 1975; the poor state
of much of the equipment does not reflect the attitude of MCP's management
towards maintenance. MCP has the capability to repair many of these
machines, given the foreign exchange earnings to purchase spare parts and
spare assemblies. MCP has an efficient system of spares control, ordering
and stocking, and is reported to have a quantity of spares already on order
through their US agents. However, the company has commitments to WAPDA
for construction under the FY77 ADP, and these will absorb some of its
present working capacity. According to one estimate of MCP's, with all
repaired machines available, the company would have an uncommitted earth-
moving capacity of 50 M cu ft per month. MCP is also known to be bidding
for contracts overseas, including the K2 contract (US$150 million) of IDA's
Lower Khalis Irrigation Project in Iraq. These contracts, will be equipped
with new machinery and would not necessarily have any impact on MCP work in
Pakistan, although staffing may be temporarily affected.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
14.      Other large contracting corporations in Pakistan include the
Government's National Construction Corporation and the National Power
Construction Corporation Ltd., which are both fully committed at Tarbela,
Karachi and elsewhere, the National Airport Development Corporation, Ltd.,
and the National Tubewell Construction Corporation Ltd., which is not
equipped for civil works. The private contracting industry has not
developed any large units, although a few medium-sized companies operate
in the building and civil engineering fields. Three local firms were
awarded contracts on the Indus Basin Project, and are thought to be
still operational, though probably not as large civil works operators;
only one is known to be mechanized.
15.      The only large commercial civil works contractor working in
Pakistan is TJV, whose reduced staff and equipment is fully committed at
Tarbela. Although the amount of earthwork to be done for restoration is
sufficient to attract foreign companies (especially from those countries
where civil works are not at present in plentiful supply), enquires indi-
cated that they could not be mobilized in Pakistan until April/May. They
would then have to recover all their costs over a 60-90 day operational
period, which would lead to excessively high costs. MCP, therefore, appears
to be the sole major contractor capable of participating in the project at
reasonable cost.
16.      Railways.  The Pakistani Railways are organized to carry out by
force account method all work on the railway lines, including bridging.
They have adequate capacity for timely completion of the flood damage re-
storation work.



PAKISTAN                      ANNEX 5
- Table 1
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
Project Management
Sector and                  Senior         Irrigation      Railway       Telecom.
Operational Area          Authority          Works          Works         Works
Federal Depts.
Irrigation and DrainaRe.
Northern Zone       Member (Water),   Gen.Manager,
WAPDA              Construction
(N), WAPDA 1/
Southern Zone       Member (Water),   Gen. Manager,
WAPDA             Construction
(S), WAPDA 2/
Railways:
Countrywide         General                            Divisional
Manager                           Managers,
Pakistan
Railways
Telecoms.:
Countrywide         Director                                        Dept. of
General                                         Telephones &
Telegraphs
Provincial Depts.             Irrigation & Flood Protection        Road Works
Works
Baluchistan              ACS,     Secy., Irrig. & Power;          Secy., Communications
P&D      Chief En3ineers, 4 Irrig.      & Works;
Divisions 3/                   Chief Engineer, Buildings
Divisions             ~~~& Roads;
Secy., Agr., Coop-&-For.;    District Engineers, &
Director, Machinery            Superintendents
Maintenance Dept.
NWF                      Chief    Secy., P'JD;  Chief Engineers, Secy., PWD.  Chief Engr.,
Secy.    5 Irrig. Divisions             Bldgs & Roads
District Eng's & Sup'ts.
Punjab                  ACS,      Secy., Irrig.-& Power;'         Seey., Communications;
P&D      Chief Engineers, 7 Irrig.      Chief Engineers,
Divisions                      District Eng's & Sup'ts.
Sind                    ACS,      ACS, Irrig. & Power;  Chief   Secy., Communications
P&D      Eng'rs,4 Irrig_-Divisions      and Works
Comnmercial Firms                                                Chief Engineers, Roads
Commercial Firms   _                            ~~~~~~District Eng's & Sup'ts.
Countrywide        General      Contracts Managers, Civil
Managers     Works Contractors;
Site Representatives
1/ Operates in NWF and Punjab.
2/ Operates in Baluchistan and Sind.
3/ Including new Irrigation Division, Sibi, with Mechanical Sub-Division.



PAKISTAN                              Table 2
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
Construction Capacity
LIST OF EQUIPMENT WITH PROVINCIAL DEPARTMENTS
(Roads and Irrigation)
Balu-                                                Under   To be
Description         chistan  NWFP  Punjab   Sind   Total    Working   repair scrapped-
1.  D/8 class Dozer           -        -      43      20        63        29         29      5
D/8 Tractor only          -        -     10        -        10         -         10     -
2.  D/7 class                 2        2       5        -        9         4          5      -
3.  D/6                       2        -       2       -         4         3          1      _
4. D/4                       13        -       3        -       16        15          1      _
5.  TD-18                     -        -       3        -        3         -          3      -
6.  Wheel Tractor            15        -       -        -       15        15          -      -
7.  Motor scraper 17-21 Cyd.-          4      45      38        87        36         43      8
8.  Motor grader             30        2      22       5        59        26         33      -
5.  Excavator 1-2 cyds.       2        2      27      42        73        58         11      4
10. Dumpers                   -        -      39       -        39        29         10      -
11. Trailer low bed           2        -       8       6        16         8          2      6
12. Trucks                   45       24      90      36       195        80         90    25
13. Compactor Vib.            -        -       4       4         8         8          -      -
14. Sheep Foot Roller         -        -     40        -        40        40          -      -
15. Rubber tyres compactor  -          -     20        -        20        10         10      -
16. Road Rollers            171       30    400      157       758       378        300    80
17. Asphalt plant             -        -      4        -         4         2          2      -
18. Crushing plant            8        -       -       5        13         -          8     5
19. Water Tankers             2        -      18       8        28        16         12      -
20. Towed Scrapers            4        -     20       30        54        20         34     -
21. M. Workshop               -        -       2       2         4         4          -     -
22. Storage tanks fuel        -        -     16        4        20        20          -     -
23. Compressors              10        6     11        2        29        10         10     9
24. Jeeps                    50       20     42       72       184       100         60    24
25. Pick-ups                  6        4     90       42       132        60         45    27
26. Cranes                    3        1     11        3        18        14          2     2
Total         365       95    965      476    1,901       985        721   195
1/ Equipment beyond economic repair.



ANNEX 5
Table 3
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
Construction Capacity
Major Equipment Owned by MCP
Serial  Equipment            No. of    No. in Work-  No. Under  No. Awaiting  No. to be
No.     Classification       Machines  ing Order       Repair      Spares         Scrapped
1.    Draglines               136          88           12           36
2.    Mobile cranes            26          15            3            7             1
3.    Crawler tractors        220         109           24           80             7
4.    Motor scrapers          151          92           15           40             4
5.    Motor graders            30          14            4           10             2
6.    Road rollers             22          17            2            3             -
7.    Dump trucks              91          40           10           40             -
8.    Trucks                  188          93           20           70             5
9.    Tractor-drawn
low-bed trailers        27          19             2           5             1
10.    Mobile workshops         15          12            3            -             -
11.    Mobile tankers           56          30            8           15             3
12.    Air Compressors:
a) Portable            114          44           12           32            26
b) Stationary            66         24             8          20            14
13.    Generators:
a) Up to 25 kW          79          31           13           24            11
b) Above 25 kW         117          43           19           39            16
14.    Welding plants          142          77           24           32            12
15.    Vibratory rollers        14          11            3            -             -
16.    Pneumatic rollers         5           3            2            -             -
17.    Front end loaders        11           7            4            -             -
18.    Light transport
vehicles                535        313          100          104            18
19.    Towed scrapers           97          27           11           40            19
20.    Batching plants           4           4            -            -             -
21.    Crushers                 18           5            4            8             1



ANNEX 5
F4igure 5.1
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
Xederal Flood Damage Restoration Coordinating Committee
(FDRCC)
Provincial Gov'ts                            Federal Dep'ts
Roads Dept's          Irrigation Dept's        Irrigation   Railways   Telecommins
& Power
B&RD, Baluchistan        IB, PWD, NWF       -------_WAPDA(N)    Pakistan   Telephones &
B&RB, PWD, NWF           ID, Punjab                            Railways   Telegraphs
C&WD, Purijab            ID, Baluchistan-                      Ralas Tlgah
C&WD, Sind               ID, Sind          )-------WAPDA(S)                   Dept.
Mechanised Constr'n Pakistan Ltd.
Petty Contractors                 Head Office
La4ore
Baluchistan -      NWF        _-Punjah          Sind
Reg. Office;   Reg. Office:   Reg. Office;  Reg. Office;
Sukkur        Rawalpindi       Lyallpur       Jamshoro
1/  Assisted by Baluchistan Machinery Maintenance Department.
Abbreviations:
B & RD= Buildings & Roads Dept.            ID = Irrigation & Power Dept.
B & RB   Buildings & Roads Branch          IB   Irrigation Branch, PWD
C & WD   Communications & Works Dept.   PWD   Public Works Dept.
NWF = North West Frontier
WAPDA (N) & (S) = Water & Power Development Authority, Northern and Southern
Zones



A1NEX 6
Page 1
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Studies
A. Draft Outline Terms of Reference for Study of Operation
and Maintenance of Flood Protection System
1.     Objectives   tOP will appoint an ad hoc Study Group (Group) to review
(a) the operation and maintenance (O&M) of flood protection infrastructure
and (b) flood fighting capability. In Pakistan the Provincial Irrigation
and Power Departments (IP&D) carry out these tasks and for the purpose of
these terms of reference it is taken that O&M includes flood fighting.
Flood fighting is the temporary strengthening of flood threatened structures
and the repair of such structures when they are damaged. The Group will
analyze general O&M requirements for the country's flood protection system
(FPS); outline a long-term strategy for achieving a satisfactory standard of
O&M; and prepare a short-term program of urgent needs for the betterment of
O&M of the system, and for improvement of the O&M organization.
2.     Scope of Study  For each Province the Group will;
A. analyze the- present status of FPS O&M including:
i.    inspecting the system and establishing inventories
of (a) FPS structures, (b) operating manuals or
instructions, and (c) maintenance routines;
ii.   reviewing and analyzing O&M organizations, including
(a) available labor forces, (b) equipment, (c) current
FPS O&M technologies, and (d) inventorising;
iii. inventorising (a) O&M equipment, (b) workshop facilities,
and (c) stocks of spare parts; and
iv.   determining the adequacy of existing O&M arrangements,
including those under which parts of FPS are operated or
maintained by agencies and entities other than the I&PD, and
making appropriate recommendations for continuing or amdending
these arrangements.
B. prepare a long-term strategy for operating and maintaining the FPS
of each Province in a manner and at a standard capable of providing
a satisfactory level of flood protection and outline a short-term
program to bring the O&M arrangements to this standard;



ANNEX 6
Page 2
C. make detailed recommendations for improving O&M operations,
paying particular attention to:
i.    appropriate improvements in O&M methods, equipment and
facilities;
ii.   frequency of principal maintenance operations for
different types of structures;
iii. type and amount of equipment and facilities required
to execute the proposed short-term improvement program;
iv.   improvements required in I&PD practices for maintenance,
repair, and replacement of equipment to allow its most
economical utilization and operation;
v.    personnel and labor needs of I&PD for the FPS, and improve-
ments required in present personnel and labor policies
and training procedures;
vi.   improvements needed in I&PD programming, budgeting, and
accounting for the FPS including allocation of funds and
control of expenditures, inventory management, and
analysis of maintenance costs;
vii. improvements needed in operations and procedures for routine
and periodic maintenance of FPS works in order to achieve
the most efficient use of equipment, materials, facilities,
and manpower;
viii. improvements needed in the labor/equipment mix for
maintenance operations;
ix.   establishment of the foreign and local currency components
of operating costs for recurrent, deferred, and periodic
maintenance, including equipment renewal and staffing and
improvements needed in the procedures for obtaining foreign
exchange and import lisenses; and
x.    improvements needed in the administration of O&M for flood
protection.
D.  determine the time farmers of the long-term strategy and the short-
term program to achieve the most appropriate level of maintenance
of the flood protection system taking into account:
i.    risk of floods of differing levels and intensity and the
consequence of such floods;
ii.   capital and recurrent costs of upgrading maintenance; and
iii. economic evaluation of the costs and benefits of the
maintenance program to be proposed.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
3.        Presentation of Findings.  The Group will consolidate its findings for
individual Provinces, to show for the nation-wide FPS the capital and recurrent
expenditures needed to achieve and sustain satisfactory levels of FPS operation
and maintenance. This data should be compared with past expenditures and those
foreseen under current development plans.
B. Outline Terms of Reference for Study of
the Domestic Construction Industry
Background
1.        The 1976 flood emergency has indicated that Pakistan's domestic con-
struction industry may be inadequate for the country's needs. Both public (such
as Mechanized Construction Pakistan Ltd.) and private sector contractors have,
for some time, found difficulty in importing spare parts and equipment. This
has resulted in a low serviceability ratio of construction equipment.  It is
advisable that the relative roles to be assigned to the large-scale public and
medium-scale Drivate civil works contractors, and the petty labor intensive con-
tractors in an emergency situation, and in the country's overall construction
program, should be reviewed, and obstacles to an increased efficiency should be
analysed and removed. Government of Pakistan (GOP) will appoint an ad hoc stud;y
Group (Group) to carry out the study and formulate reccmmendations.  The followLng
terms of reference indicate the objectives of the Group.
Objectives
2.        The Group will review, within an overall projection of the next five
yearst construction requirements, the domestic constructing industry, and the
construction materials manufacturing industry in order to ascertain:
(i)    participation in the national construction by the
public and private large-scale and medium contractors,
petty contractors and force account operations;
(ii)   constraints on their development and obstacles to
the increased efficiency;
(iii) ways and means to remove these constraints and obstacles.
3.        The study will be directed to both mechanized and labor intensive
methods of construction. The study would concern itself mainly with determining
those constraints that today prevent the existence of a dynamic industry and
would formulate recoimmendations for removing these constraints and improving
efficiency of the industry.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Scope of Study
4.        In carrying out the study the Group would inter alia:
(i)    take inventory of domestic large and medium public
and private contractors by appropriate categories;
(ii)   analyze the current holdings of equipment and plant
of these contractors, and the approximate total
current annual value of construction equipment con-
sumed (that is depreciation assessment plus repair
parts) by such finms over past three years;
(iii) determine the annual average value of work executed
by different categories of contractors over the past
three years;
(iv)   analyze the causes, e.g., lack of skilled labor,
finance, management, and foreign exchange that have
prevented contractors from developing their capacity
to meet demand;
(v)    inventory of petty labor intensive contractors by
province and category and analyze their holdings of
equipment and tools, average annual labor employment,
access to and conditions of equipment rental;
(vi)   determine the annual value of work executed by
different categories of petty contractors over the
past three years;
(vii)  review the methods and efficiency of work of petty
contractors, determine and analyze the constraints
to efficiency and to quality of work;
(viii) review the scope, cost and quality of force account
operations by federal and provincial departments.
5.        TJpon completing the review of the domestic constructing industry, the
Group would analyze the relative roles which should be economically played by
the various types of operations, and ascertain and review the constraints which
would hinder their adequate participation in the national construction program.
The review would include (but not be limited to) organizational and technical
capacity of management, access to financing, payment practices, import-licensing
procedures, skilled and unskilled labor availability, training, equipment and
tools supply, incentives, efficiency and quality of work, and government procure-
ment procedures, contractual payment provisions and stipulations related to
disputes and arbitration.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
6.        In the field of building materials industry the Group would:
(i)    review the structure and recent performance of the
building materials industry in the production of
cement, structural steel, reinforcing steel, aggregates,
bricks, pipes, timber, bitumen, fuels, appropriate
hand tools, equipment and vehicles, etc.;
(ii)   assess the demand projections for key materials in the
public and private sectors over a 5 year development
period, and assess the industry's adequacy to meet the
demand, the current industryt's investment program and
consistency of the program and demand.
7.        The Group would conclude the overall study with recommendations to
improve the efficiency of the domestic construction industry. Recommendations
should be consistent with the roles in the national construction industry
assigned to the public large-scale contractors, private large and medium con-
tractors, petty contractors and force account operations. Intensive labor
employment should be of a particular concern, in line with the GOP policies.
Recommendations should include (inter alia) ways to improve efficiency and
quality of labor intensive work, equipment rental arrangements for private
contractors, availability of well designed hand tools and equipment, import-
licencing procedures for equipment and spare parts, technical assistance to
contractors at the managerial level, vocational training, procurement pro-
cedures, etc.
Presentation of Findings
8.        The Group will present its findings in a form that indicates clearly
the principal constraints restricting the efficiency and growth of the industry.
It will provide recommendations for removing these constraints or for such
additional studies as may be required to enable this to be done. The Group will
show the costs to GOP, if any, of implementing its recommendations as well as
their foreign exchange implications.



ANNEX 7
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
Requirements and Procurement of Spare Parts, Special Equipment and
Materials for Provincial Departments
1.        The construction equipment spreads owned by Provincial I & PD,
C & WD and B & RD presently have relatively low production output, mainly due to
their poor serviceability. Table 1 of Annex 5 shows the the number of machines
out of action is about 50% of the total. Shortages of spare parts have been
due to the lack of foreign exchange allocations to the Provincial Departments.
Shortages include fuel injectors, track parts, transmissions, engine parts and
instruments as well as tires. Under the project, the spare parts and spare
assemblies required to activate the Provincial machines, would be obtained
through MCP, together with fast-moving spares to keep the machinery in use on
the works. Requisitions would be passed through FDRCC to MCP, who would
instruct their agents overseas to "shop internationally" for the spares. MCP
would import the spare parts through their own letters of credit, and they
would not be subject to the same procedural constraints as Government
Departments. On receipt, the spare parts and necessary special tools would
be distributed to the Provincial workshops, which have the capability to
restore the equipment. A total of US$7.4 million would be expended on acceptable
spare parts, assemblies and tools, of which 50%- would be allocated under the
Credit, and the balance would be contributed by GOP.
2.        The existing equipment spreads of I & PD, B & R & PR usually lack
balance in that there is a shortage of low-bed tractor trailers to provide
mobility; mobile workshops and lubrication trucks for site maintenance; front-
end loaders as well as tracked tractors and pushers to increase tractor-drawn
scraper output for embankment restoration work; back-hoes for canal and
drain desilting, and radio transmitters and receivers for site-to-base
communications. Under the project, a number of such machines would be procured
through MCP, together with spare parts for initial operations. A total of
US$7.7 million would be expended on acceptable equipment and spares, of which
US$6.9 million would be allocated under the credit representing 100% of the
cif costs of imports.
3.        Restoration of flood damage to railways, telecommunications and roads
requires special construction materials and assemblies. These include the
replenishment of ties or sleepers, timber and structural steel used; wires,
cables and ancilliary telecommunications material; and Bailey bridging
assemblies and pontoons for temporary road crossings. A total of US$2.2 million
would be expended on these items under the project, for which US$1.8 million
would be allocated under the Credit, representing 100% of the cif cost of
imports.
4.        The approximate composition of the list of required equipment is
shown in Table 1. The content and division of the list between Departments
would be determined by FDRCC, who would then pass them to MCP for procurement
action.



ANNEX 7
Table 1
Page 1
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
Spare Parts, Supplementary and Special Equipment,
Materials and Assemblies
Cost
1.  Spare parts, assemblies and tools for Provincial                 US$ Equiv,cif.
Department equipment.
Spare tires, tubes, transmissions, engines or parts,
cooling system parts, water and hydraulic hose, fuel
injectors, hydraulics parts, cable drums and cable,
electrical batteries and wiring harnesses, axles,
shafts, etc. and special tools for restoration of
some of the equipment under repair or out of action,
as shown in Annex 5, Table 1, and to be selected from
the following Agriculture, Irrigation and Roads Depart-
ments' equipment:
Vehicles and moving equipment, other than
road rollers and trucks,                         321 units
Road rollers,                                    300 units
Trucks,                                           90 units
Static equipment, asphalt and crushing plants 10 units
721 units:   6,200,000
Contingencies, including price, 20%                  1,200,000
Total, spare parts and assemblies.1/              US$7,400,000
2.  Special Equipment-2/                           Unit Price             Cost
No.      US$ Equiv,cif.      US$ Equiv,cif.
(a) For Provincial Irrigation Departments.
Bulldozers (D-7 class), 200 hp   6             120,000              720,000
Motor scrapers                    10           120,000            1,200,000
Vibrating compactors, 5 ton       10            30,000              300,000
Mobile cranes, 8 ton23             3            50,000              150,000
Welding plants                     4             5,000               20,000
Generating sets                    6            15,000               90,000
Water tanker trucks                5            20,000              100,000
(See footnotes at end of Table.)



ANNEX 7
Table 1
Page 2
Unit Price             Cost
2.(a) (continued)                     No.       US$ Equiv,cif.      US$ Equiv,cif.
Fuel tanker trucks                5            20,000              100,000
Graders3/                         2            80,000              160,000
Lubrication/service trucks       10            33,000              330,000
Mobile workshops3/                6            60,000              360,000
Low-bed transports
with tractors, 30 ton            8            50,000              400,000
Recovery vehicles                 4            50,000              200,000
Radio transreceivers             20             1,500               30,000
Outboard motors (for pontoons)  10              3,000               30,000
Stores inventory control
systems                          4             1,500                6,000
Equipment maintenance control
systems                          4             1,500                6,000
Subtotal, equipment                                 4,202,000
Spare parts for operations through July 1978, approx. 10%         398,000
Subtotal, Irrigation Departments                    4,600,000
(b) For Roads (Communications and Works) Departments
Bulldozers (D-7 class), 200 hp   7            120,000              840,000
Vibrating compactors, 5 ton_/V    4            30,000              120,000
Mobile cranes, 8 ton              3            50,000              150,000
Welding plants                    4             5,000               20,000
Generating.sets                   4            15,000               60,000
Water tanker trucks               1            20,000               20,000
Fuel tanker trucks                2            20,000               40,000
Lubrication/service trucks        3            36,000              108,000
Mobile workshops                  3            60,000              180,000
Low-bed transporters
with tractors, 30 ton            4            50,000               20,000
Front-end loaders, 1-1/2 cu yd2/ 4             50,000              200,000
Recovery vehicles                 4            50,000              200,000
Radio transreceivers             20             1,500               30,000
Equipment maintenance control
systems                          4             1,500                6,000



ANNEX 7
Table 1
Price Page 3        Cost
No.      US$ Equiv,cif.      US$ Equiv,cif.
Stores inventory control
systems                          4             1,500                6,000
Subtotal, equipment                                  2,000,000
Spare parts for operations through July 1978, approx. 10%         200,000
Subtotal, Roads Departments                          2,200,000
(c) Pakistan Meteorological Department
Meteorological Satellite Readout Station,
including installation and operator training                       85,000
Storm-proof communications system between
Quantitative Precipitation Measurement
radar station and Flood Warning Centre                             15,000
Subtotal, PMD                                          100,000
Total 2(a), (b) & (c), supplementary and special equipment US$6,900,000
3. Special Construction Materials and Assemblies.
(a) Pakistan Railways; Sleepers (ties), timber
and structural steel (for replacement of stocks)                  500,000
(b) Roads Department; temporary, unit construction
bridging for road restoration works                               300,000
(c) Telephone and Telegraph Department; wire and
cable (for replacement of stocks)                               1,000,000
Total, materials and assemblies                  US$1,800,000
1/  Under the credit, IDA will disburse 50% of foreign exchange cost of these items.
2/  The list of equipment may be adjusted within allocated amounts at the time
of procurement, and by agreement with IDA, to fit the finalized program of
rehabilitation work.
3/  Additional requirements for these items are expected to be provided under a
parallel credit for L750,000 under negotiation with the United Kingdom, which
may include finance for procurement of the following:
6 Compactors                              6 Front-end Loaders
8 Graders, 125 hp                         4 Mobile Cranes



ANNEX 8
Page 1
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
National Flood Protection Planning
General
1.       A comprehensive flood management plan, or a program for the
preparation of such a plan, does not presently exist in Pakistan.
The provincial agencies concerned with flood management each prepare
plans for their specific areas of responsibility. However, the
aggregate of these individual plans does not constitute an integrated
or comprehensive plan. Although the individual plans are to some
extent prepared in coordination with other agencies, there is no
systematic process for evaluating the hydrologic interaction of
proposed flood control measures or for finding the most appropriate
means of meeting flood mitigation objectives.
2.       A comprehensive flood management plan would satisfy a number
of needs. Such a plan would identify the most cost effective means
for meeting the national objective of mitigating the losses caused
by floods. It would provide a rational basis for decisions by
presenting alternative measures and costs.  It would provide means
for determining the hydrologic effects of actions at one location on
flood behavior elsewhere in the river system. It would also provide
an improved basis for cooperation and coordination among concerned
agencies in flood management operations and in preparation of detailed
projects.
Present Status of Flood Management Planning
3.       Plans for structural facilities for flood protection, primarily
bunds, are the responsibility of the Provincial Irrigation and Power
Departments. The Punjab Irrigation and Power Department has proposals
and plans for renovation and extension of the bund system, which at
present is centered mainly at barrages. The Sind Irrigation and Power
Department has an extensive plan for renovating and supplementing the
bund system along the Lower Indus. The NWF and Baluchistan Irrigation
Departments have limited plans for improvements at critical locations.
WAPDA is planning and implementing reservoir projects, though for the
primary purposes of irrigation and power.
4.       Planning for non-structural measures is concentrated on flood
forecasting and warning and on rescue, relief, and rehabilitation.
Plans for these measures are the responsibility of the Meteorological
Department (PMD), the Provincial Relief Commissioners and Disaster
Relief Cell created in the Cabinet Division. Deputy Commissioners
prepare detailed plans for local rescue and relief activities and the
Army prepares plans for its emergency flood fighting activities. There
is essentially no planning for other non-structural measures such as



ANNEX 8
Page 2
flood plain zoning, flood proofing, and flood insurance, nor are these
measures incorporated to any significant degree in the plans of the
agencies listed above. Planning by the individual agencies is
coordinated on the provincial level by the Punjab Flood Commission and
by the Indus River Commission in Sind. On the federal level, coordi-
nation is provided by the newly-formed Federal Flood Commission.
However, these coordinating agencies do not have the facilities, staff,
or funds required for preparation of a comprehensive plan.
5.       A two-year program for improvement of flood forecasting
facilities and techniques was initiated in 1975. This program will be
carried out by the PMD and WAPDA with financial and technical assistance
from the WMO and the Netherlands. It will contribute to flood management
planning in several ways. Equipment and technical assistance will be
provided for improving high-flow discharge measurement and recording
at key stations on the major rivers in the Indus Plains. Telecommuni-
cations facilities will be provided for improving the flood warning
network. A computer model will be used for forecasting the magnitude
and timing of flood flows based on rainfall and river-flow observations.
It is also intended to install a weather radar at Sialkot for assistance
in making quantitative forecasts of rainfall and for estimating the
quantity of actual rainfall in the upper catchments outside of Pakistan.
Comprehensive Plan for Flood Protection
6.       A comprehensive flood protection plan should aim to provide
maximum feasible progress towards meeting national objectives for flood
damage mitigation through the appropriate level of investment of
resources. The plan should be coordinated with other related resource
management and infrastructure development programs. It should be
capable of adjustment to meet changed conditions and to accommodate
changes in policies and priorities. Since the plan should be adjusted
and updated on a continuing basis, it must include an institutional
structure organized for the purpose. Agencies, and their organi-
zational relationships, should be designated for policy making, planning
and information collection, project preparation, construction and
maintenance, administrative regulation, operations, and rescue,
relief and rehabilitation.
7.       The structural aid non-structural elements of the comprehensive
plan should be designed so that the overall effectiveness is greater
than the sum of the effectiveness of the individual elements. Levels
of protection should be rationally established in terms of economic
merit and fulfillment of objectives and policies, instead of based on
the flood of record. The plan should include designation of the
location, size, and design criteria for strucutral measures for flood
protection. It should establish priorities for implementation and
schedules of construction and required investment. It should include
procedures for integrated utilization of multiple-purpose facilities
such as storage reservoirs. The plan for structural measures should
include an evaluation of existing construction capability and of the



ANNEX 8
Page 3
needs for machinery, parts, and labor. The comprehensive plan should
include recommendations for improvement of existing non-structural
measures and for additional non-structural measures, as found to be
appropriate. It should incorporate work of the PMD/WAPDA/WMO group on
flood forecasting methods, facilities, data networks, communications
networks, etc. Broad recommendations for rescue, relief, and rehabili-
tation should be prepared taking into account detailed plans prepared by
the Relief Commissioners and Deputy Commissioners. The plan should
include recommendations for flood plain land use and regulation
strategies such as zoning and public acquisition. Other non-structural
measures that may be included in the plan include flood proofing of
public and private property, emergency evacuation procedures for
people and property, and flood insurance.
Planning Process
8. As described by Harza in their report to GOP on the "Appraisal of
Flood Systems in Pakistan" in January, 1976, the preparation of a
comprehensive flood management plan will require a substantial effort
over two or more years, after which planning work should continue. Because
of the complex physical and socio-economic aspects of the flood problem,
it is essential that planning be done in a sound and systematic manner.
Modern systems analysis techniques should be introduced. These planning
procedures have the objectives of ensuring that all relevant factors are
given consideration, that the interaction of individual elements of
the plan is accounted for, that maximum benefit is obtained from the
investment in resources, and that an institutional structure capable
of implementing and operating the resultant flood management system
is provided.
9.       The recommended planning process described below is on a step-
by-step basis. Many activities will, however, go on concurrently and
some of the early steps may be repeated several times in the planning
process.   The steps in the recommended planning process are:
(1) Establish objectives;
(2) Organization and study design;
(3) Planning policies and criteria;
(4) Data assembly, field investigations, surveys;
(5) Systems analysis and simulation modelling;
(6) Plan formulation;
(7) Strategy for plan implementation.
Establish Objectives
10.      While the objectives of a comprehensive flood management may
appear to be obvious, there can be no assurance of mutual understanding
of the objectives by all concerned parties and agencies unless they
are clearly defined in writing. It is especially important that the



ANNEX 8
Page 4
planning technicians fully understand the conceptions of objectives
held by policy makers and decision makers. To assure mutual under-
standing, the planners should prepare a document listing and describing
proposed objectives. This document then can be reviewed by a policy
guidance group and modified as necessary to meet the desires of the
policy makers. Some specific objectives that might be considered for
adoption include:
To minimize flood-related losses to the national economy;
To minimize flood damages to private property;
To promote appropriate land use in flood hazard areas;
To achieve maximum flood protection benefits for multi-purpose
facilities without sacrifice of irrigation and power benefits;
To avoid short-run measures that may exacerbate problems in
the long term;
To avoid inequities from provision of benefits to some at
the cost of others;
To preserve and enhance environmental values and eco-systems,
etc.
Organization and Study Design
11.      Before undertaking significant work in data collection and
analysis, the planning program should be laid out and scheduled in
considerable detail. It is anticipated that this will be done in two
steps: one prior to authorizing and initiating the program, and one
immediately thereafter. The first work plan and schedule should be
directed toward establishing the overall time, manpower, equipment, and
financial needs of the program. It would be submitted for approval of the FFC.
12.      Soon after the program is initiated and objectives have been
established and defined, a detailed study design should be carried
out. For each task, a memorandum should be prepared describing the
objectives of the specific task, the specific problem towardwhich the
task is directed, and a description of the procedure to be followed.
The memorandum should be reviewed by the supervisory staff of the planning
program and by the Federal Flood Commission (FFC) before undertaking
significant work on the task. These memoranda should be modified at
intervals if appropriate. Based on these task descriptions, an overall
work schedule should be prepared. The work schedule should show
beginning and ending dates of tasks, indicate prerequisite tasks or
activities, and identify that sequence of tasks that controls the
project completion date. Procedures such as CPM or PERT should be used
with updating at appropriate intervals for management control.
Planning Policies and Criteria
13.      Certain criteria for planning must be established at the policy
level to provide guidelines and a framework for planning technicians.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
The level of protection to be provided to certain installations and
types of land use, in terms of flood frequency, must be considered.
Different design frequencies are often used for different types of
flood control facilities. It may be sound policy, for instance, to
use a higher design frequency for bunds in Sind than for bunds in
Punjab because of the more catastrophic nature of a bund failure in
Sind.
14.      The establishment of planning policies and criteria should
not be treated as a separate task but rather as part of the continuing
planning process. It is most important that policies and criteria
be systematically subjected to review outside the planning organi-
zation itself. Such review should include both Federal and Provincial
levels of Government and, in particular, the review of the implementing
agencies. The functions of the FFC in this regard are attached as Appendix A.
Data Assembly and Field Investigations
15.      Many types of information and data must be obtained to provide
inputs to the planning process. Much information is available but
needs to be assembled and reviewed. Other data and information will
have to be measured or observed under the planning program itself,
without collecting data before the need for specific information is
clearly established. The major categories of data and information
are described below.
16.      Hydrologic data and information - Several types of hydrologic
data will be required. Climatological and stream flow records are
available from appropriate agencies and may be readily assembled. Other
information may have to be obtained by field measurement during the
planning program. Improvements in flood peak flow measurement tech-
niques and equipment are expected to be made under the WMO/PMD/WAPDA
program described above. Depending upon the status of this program,
it may be desirable to include this aspect as a flood planning
activity. Climatological and streamflow data available for Federal
and Provincial Government agencies should be assembled only as needed.
It will be desirable to obtain flood period rainfall data from stations
in upper catchment areas under Indian control, particularly for
correlation with weather radar observations. Satellite observations
showing snow cover in the upper catchment areas of the Chenab,Jhelum,
Indus and Kabul Rivers should be obtained for the entire period of
observation. Data collection should be coordinated with the ongoing
UNDP Indus Basin Planning Project.
17.      A major effort will be required to obtain river channel data
for use in preparation of a digital computer flood simulation model.
Channel cross sections will be required at appropriate intervals
and topographic maps with no more than two foot contour interval
will be needed for all of the major river flood plains including,



ANNEX 8
rage b
except in Sind, areas behind protective bunds. Sind is excluded
because much of the land slopes downward away from the river and,
therefore, extent of flooding is not a function of river stage. The
most efficient means for obtaining this information, which will
have many uses, will be by aerial photogrammetry. Continuing aerial
survey programs should be established for surveillance of annual
changes in river channel alighment. At present, field surveys are
made each year in Sind to provide this information. Aerial surveys
also should be made during floods to establish the extent of flooded
area and to provide insight into river behavior under high flows,
including channel and overbank hydraulic roughness. Field observations
should be made to support analyses aimed at determining the actual
stage-discharge relationships of barrages and other river structures.
18.      Economic data - Economic information is required as a basis
for estimating flood damages and flood management benefits, and for
determining the cost of structural and non-structural measures. The
aerial photography of flood plains, described above, should be used
for a survey of land use in flood hazard areas. Flood damage infor-
mation from recent floods should be collected,reviewed and field
checked. Special efforts should be made to determine the effect of
past floods on infrastructure facilities and operations,. and on
public and private economic activities. Data for estimating cost of
structural measures for flood control will be needed but should not be
collected under specific measures are to be evaluated.
19.      System data - While some data on the dimensions and charact-
eristics of structural measures for flood control are available, a
large amount of additional data is required. Data are especially
needed for the bund system, including alignment, height, section, and
crest profile. Most of these data are available with the responsible
agencies but the collection is time consuming. Field inspections on
a sampling basis should be made to determine present condition of
structures.
Systems Analysis and Simulation
20.      The principal analytical tool for conducting the river flood
studies and for formulating and testing alternative plans will be a
digital computer comprehensive flood simumlation model. Such a model
will allow the reproduction of past floods so as to fill in data between
historical observation points. It will be able to simulate hypo-
thetical floods of selected frequencies and will provide a basis for
testing the effectiveness of alternative structural measures for flood
protection. It will provide a basis for estimating economic damages
attributable to river floods of given frequencies and for estimating
the benefits of flood protection improvements. The proposed flood
simulation model would take into account the flood generating factors
of snow melt and runoff. It would determine the flow of rivers in
terms of discharge and time at any location, and it would provide a



ANNEX 8
Page 7
high water profile along the river course. The model would differ from
the river system simulation models used for irrigation planning in
that dynamic flood-wave movement factors will be taken into account.
Because of the relatively long time periods used, the irrigation
system models are not concerned with dynamic routing effects.
21.      The flood forecasting model that is to be prepared by the
WMo/PMD/WAPDA Flood Forecasting Project may be useful in developing
the comprehensive flood simulation model. The flood forecasting
model is concerned only with the magnitude and time of occurrence of
flood peaks at key points in the river system. The comprehensive
flood simulation model would provide the same information plus water
surface profiles along the river courses. The comprehensive flood
simulation model would also enable studies to be made of the changes
in flood characteristics attributable to modifications or additions
to structural measures and attributable to changes in channel
conditions.
22.      Channel and flood plain maps and cross sections, described
earlier, together with hydrologic data, will provide the basic
information needed for construction of the model. It is expected that
the Itidus System comprehensive flood model can be based on already
developed and tested models of this type. After preparation of the
model, it will be necessary to adjust and calibrate it to correspond
to recorded historical conditions. Computer facilities available in
Pakistan are probably adequate for this modelling (IBM-370 systems).
Other techniques woul be applied to flooding between the rivers, attribu-
table to local rainfall and drainage inadequacies.
23.      The other major analytical activity in the planning program
will be the determination of economic damages associated with floods
of various frequencies under alternative flood protection of management
plans. The reduction of flood damages attributable to a flood pro-
tection or management measure is equal to the economic benefit of that
measure. The usual procedure is to derive stage-damage curves for river
reaches. The stage-damage curves relate economic damage to the maximum
river level in a flood event. Damages are estimated on the basis of
land use, property, and facilities in the areas that would be inundated
at a given river stage. Such information, to a large degree, can be
derived from aerial photos of the flood plains together with topographic
maps. Special approaches will have to be derived for estimating potential
flood damages in Sind where land slopes away from the River. In this
case, the area of inundation is mostly a function of the size and
duration of a bund breach and not directly a function of river stage.
Much of the damage from flooding is to agriculture. It will be
necessary to analyze the economic damage to various crops in terms of
season, depth, and duration of flooding. Stage-damage analysis should
be used for determining the extent of monetary damage to be expected
from floods of various frequencies under present and future conditions
of land use. They should also be used for determining benefits (reduction
in flood damage) of alternative plans for flood protection and management.



ANNEX 8
Page 8
Plan Formulation
24.      It is desirable to prepare alternative plans and alternative
elements of plans and to evaluate their costs, benefits, and compara-
tive intangible merits. This will provide a basis for rational
consideration by Government. Major structural elements, such as reser-
voirs, river diversions, and bunds, should be identified and tested for
potential performance using the comprehensive flood simulation model.
Specific benefits should be estimated where possible, and costs should be
estimated to a degree of accuracy adequate for comparison of alternatives.
Alternative designs and design criteria for flood protection bunds should
be developed and compared in terms of structural merit, probable reliability,
need for maintenance and construction cost. Special attention should,
however, be given to non-structural alternatives including controlled land
use, flood proofing and provision of population and cattle refuges,
emergency evacuation of flood plains, flood insurance, flood warning, and
other measures. Efforts should be made to analyse the monetary and social
benefits and costs of non-structural measures, and the constraints on their
implementation. Alternative levels of flood protection, in terms of flood
frequency, should be evaluated for different land uses and infrastructure
facilities. These evaluations should take into account direct economic
losses and other consequences of flooding. It is generally the policy to
provide a higher level of protection to urban areas than to agricultural
areas. However, guidelines used in other countries may not be applicable
in Pakistan. Efforts should therefore be made to develop a rational and
equitable basis for selecting criteria for levels of protection. In
addition to near-term economic evaluation, including social and other
intangible considerations, the long-term physical aspects of alternative
measures should be evaluated. An existing example of such a long-term
consideration is the general rise in river bed and flood levels due to
sedimentation of river channels or vegetal growth in channels which convey
flood flows at infrequent intervals.
25.      The evaluations of alternative measures, described above, should
be presented for consideration to the Provincial Flood Commissions and to
the Federal Flood Commission at intervals in the planning program. The
guidance of these bodies should be obtained in the process of selecting
from alternatives the elements that will comprise the recommended plan.
The plan will include a presentation and discussion of the plan objectives
and the standards and criteria upon which it is based, and will show how the
plan will implement Governments' policies. The plan itself will include
structural measures and their costs, non-structural measures, operational
procedures, any institutional adjustments needed, recommendations on
organizational structure, and a program for systematically updating the plan.
Implementation of Planning Program
26.      The recently established Federal Flood Commission would evidently
be the agency primarily responsible for the planning program. WAPDA would
be the implementing agency for the program on behalf of the Federal
Government. Coordination among the agencies concerned with flood manage-
ment would be achieved through regular, well-prepared meetings during the



ANNEX 8
Page 9
planning period. Experienced professionals, not below the rank of assistant
directors, should be deputed from each of the concerned Provincial I&PDs to
work with WAPDA. WAPDA, as the implementing agency, would be responsible
for assigning technical and supporting staff personnel on a full time basis,
for supervision and execution of the planning program. WAPDA would be advised
and supported by a consulting firm, probably expatriate, with considerable
experience in similar flood protection planning studies and satisfactory to
IDA, who would provided advanced technical expertise to supplement that
available within WAPDA and the Provincial I&PDs. The consultant would provide
professional services, advice and guidance to WAPDA as necessary to assure
timely and satisfactory completion of the planning program, including assistance
in and coordination of all aspects of the program activities. Interim and
progress reports would be issued by the Planning Group and a final report
would be published within two years of commencement of the program.
27.      The local currency cost for implementing the program has been
estimated by Harza International to be Rs 7.6 million, as given in Table 1.
The foreign exchange cost of the services of the consultants, if expatriate,
has been estimated by Harza International to be US$1,500,000, with associated
local currency costs of Rs 2,300,000, as given in Table 1.    The total cost
of the planning program as estimated byHarza International would be US$2.26
million equivalent; after allowing for appropriate contingencies, the cost
of the program has been provisionally included as part of the 1976 Flood
Damage Restoration Project in the amount of US$0.8 million equivalent.



ANNEX 8
Table I
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
National Flood Protection Planning
Summary of Estimated Costs _/
A.  Foreign Currency Costs (1976 prices);                      US$ or equiv.
Consultant's services in Pakistan                           1,088,000
Consultant's services in home office                           85,000
International travel                                          141,400
Other reimbursable costs                                      265,600
Total                                      1,500,000
B.  Local Currency Expenditures                                     Rs
Government staff component                                  2,890,000
Consultant component cost                                   2,300,000
Equipment component cost                                    1,550,000
Miscellaneous component cost                                  860,000
Total                                      7,600,000
1/ For foreign consultants only, not proposed in the project.
Source: Harza International,"Appraisal of Flood Systems
in Pakistan,"February 1976. For estimate of association
of Pakistani and foreign consultants, see Annex 7.



ANNEX 8
Appendix A
Page 1
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
GOP Resolution Forming a Federal Flood Commission
Government of Pakistan
Ministry of Fuel, Power and Natural Resources
Islamabad, the 4th January, 1977
RESOLUTION
1.      The Government of Pakistan is pleased to constitute a Federal Flood
Commission consisting of the following:-
Chief Engineering Adviser  (Grade-22)                  Chairman
Ministry of Fuel, Power
and Natural Resources
Additional Chief Secretary                             Member
Irrigation and Power Department
Government of Sind
Secretary                                             Member
Irrigation and Power Department
Government of Punjab
Secretary                                             Member
Public Works Department
Government of NWFP
Secretary                                             Member
Irrigation and Power Department
Government of Baluchistan
Member (Water), WAPDA                                  Member
Joint Secretary (Roads)                                Member
Ministry of Communications
Member (Civil Engineering)                             Member
Railway Board
Ministry of Railways
Chief, Water Resources                                 Member
Planning Division
Director General                                       Member
Pakistan Meteorological Department



ANNEX 8
Appendix A
Page 2
2.      The functions of the Federal Flood Commission shall be as follows:-
(i) Preparation of a flood protection plan for the country.
(ii) Approval of flood control/protection schemes prepared by
Provincial Governments and Federal Agencies.
(iii) Recommendations regarding principles of regulation of
reservoirs for flood control.
(iv) Review of damage to flood protection works and review of
plans for restoration and reconstruction works.
(v) Measures for improvement of flood forecasting and flood
warning system.
(vi) Preparation of a research programme for flood control
and protection.
(vii) Standardization of designs and specifications for flood
protection works.
(viii) Evaluation and monitoring of progress of implementation
of the National Flood protection plan.
3.      The Office of the Chief Engineering Adviser shall work as the
Secretariat of the Commission.
4.      In performing its functions, the Commission may requisition
assistance of experts of WAPDA and other Federal Agencies and the Provincial
Governments or co-opt such others as members as it may deem necessary. The
Commission may also engage consultants and experts as and when needed.
5.      The implementation of the National Flood Protection Plan will be
undertaken by the Provincial Governments. The Federal Government shall,
however, provide the resources for meeting the capital cost of the Plan.
6.      Ordered that the Resolution be published in the Gazette of Pakistan.
O/C
Sd/..
(Masrur Hasan Khan)
Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
No.W.II-3(23)/76



ANNEX 9
Table 1
Page 1
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
% Foreign
Exchange
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Component
----Rs million----- ---US$ million_-7--
1. Civil Works: Major Contracts
Earthwork                     72     108    180   7.2    10.8   18.0
Stonework                     12      18      30   1.2      1.8    3.0
Structures                    12      18      30   1.2      1.8    3.0
Totals, (1), major contracts 96       144    240   9.6    14.4   24.0        60
2. Civil Works: Government Depts
force account and petty contracts
Irrigation, Drainage &
Flood Protection
Earthwork                  160       54    214  16.0       5.4   21.4
Stonework                   10        3      13   1.0      0.3    1.3
Structures                  10        3      13   1.0      0.3    1.3
Subtotals                 180       60    240  18.0      6.0   24.0       25
Roads
Earthwork                    15       5      20   1.5      0.5    2.0
Stonework                  120       40    160  12.0       4.0   16.0
Structures                  45       15      60   4.5     1.5    6.0
Subtotals                 180       60    240  18.0      6.0   24.0      25
Totals (2), force account
and petty contracts          360     120    480  36.0    12.0   48.0        25
3. Spare Parts & Tools
Irrigation Departments         0      39      39     0     3.9    3.9
Roads Departments              0      29      29     0      2.9    2.9
Agriculture Departments        0      06      06     0      0.6    0.6
Totals (3)                      0      74      74     0      7.4    7.4    100
4. Specialized Construction Equipment
Irrigation Departments        4       46     50   0.4      4.6    5.0
Roads Departments              4      22      26   0.4     2.2    2.6
Pakistan Meteorological Dept O         1       1     0     0.1    0.1
Totals (4)                      8      69      77   0.8     6.9    7.7    100



ANNEX 9
Table 1
Page 2
Z Foreign
Exchange
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Component
----Rs million----- ---US$ million/---
5. Special Construction Materials
and Assemblies
Pakistan Railways              0        5      5    0       0.5    0.5
Roads Departments              1        3      4  0.1       0.3    0.4
Telegraph & Telephone Depts  3         10     13  0.3       1.0    1.3
Totals (5)                      4       18      22  0.4       1.8    2.2      82
6. Technical Services for
Project Supervision & Studies
Government staff              24        0     24  2.4          0    2.4       0
Consultants                    4        8     12  0.4       0.8    1.2       67
Totals (6)                     28        8     36  2.8       0.8    3.6       22
Project Totals                496      433    929 49.6      43.3   92.9      46
Customs Duties & Taxes         51        0     51  5.1          0    5.1
Grand Totals                  547      433    980 54.7      43.3   98.0      44



ANNEX 10
Page 1
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Priority Works
1.        The high priority restoration works are expected to be scheduled for
completion mainly by July 1977 as follows:
Infrastructure                          Priority Restoration Works
Irrigation, Drainage and Flood Protection:         Completion Requirements
(a) Perennial (rabi and kharif) canals             As soon as possible, to provide rabi
irrigation supplies during current
1976/77 season.
(b) Non-perennial (kharif) canals                  Before start of kharif season, i.e.
by mid-April, for 1977 kharif season
irrigation supplies.
(c) Flood protection bunds                         Substantial completion by end July
1977.
(d) Drainage systems                               Substantial completion by end July
1977.
Communications
(e) Roads                                          To be made passable as soon as
possible, and to provide tolerable
traffic conditions by the end of July
1977, with complete restoration by
end of June 1978.
(f) Railways                                       As soon as possible (mostly partially
restored).
(g) Telecommunications                             As soon as possible (mostly restored).
These requirements would require the following procurement schedule for
the Project:
Goods                                Procurement and Delivery Schedule
Spare parts, assemblies and tools                  To be ordered by mid-February  1977
and delivered between mid-March 1/
and April 1977.
Special support equipment                          To be ordered by mid-February  1977
delivered by May 1977.
Special materials and assemblies                   To be delivered by end-June 1977.
Meteorological Department equipment                 To be  ordered  by end-April 1977, and
installed by end-June 1977.
1'   By air freight.



MNBX 10
PAKISTAN:  1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1976                                     1977    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                1978    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Sep -- Dec  Jan   Feb   Mar           May  Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec         Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May  Jun   Jul     ug  PS
Activate Federal Flood Damage MS'o___nsoo-n-                                                                                                      -                        -On 
Restoration Coordinating Coteittee                                   _
Activate Provincial CoordinatinSg
Comeittees
Activate Federal restoration
project consultants t                                                                            _
Select, approve, authorize and monitor
project works schedule                                              _          _   _              t             _
Procure spare parts, equipment snd
n.terisla for project                                         -     -     - _         -    _
NegOtiate and iplemwnt major restoration
works contracts:
Canal-
Drains-- -                              --
Flood protection bunds               -
Department force account ad petty contract
restoration works:
Canals           -      - -
Drains  ---                                            |        _                                                 -     -      -
Flood protection bunds -          ---I 
Jarrages and d_        -- --           -               |-
Roads         -         -- --                                                                            -   -    -                                        -      -            
Railways
Tlelcomunications       --
install flood forecasting equipment and   - --
train Meteorological Departmnt operators
Activate national flood protection study _____
unit, Federal Flood Commission
Appoint and activate comnultants to Federal
Plood Commission for national flood protection                                                                                                                                    Lo
study, produce draft reports and review  2/
findings with IDA (by July 31, 1978, see -
Form and activate unit for study of ODM of                                                                                           If
flood protection works, produce draft report   9                                         _ 3
nd review findings with IDA (by December 31, 1977, see -
Form and activate unit for preparation of
development plan for civil works contracting
industry, produce draft report and review                                                                             -     -      - . _                 -     - _                                  A
findings with IDA (by June 30 1978, see
Proposed IDA supervision missions                                          _
_                                    w           I      I       .     _      _        I  ___          --                     . .-  -                      _, -      _-    -   -.----.- _
i/ National Flood Protection study unit to be formed and
fully staffed by July 1, 1977.
A Start implementation of 06M study reconmmendations by
March 31, 1978.



ANNEX 11
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Credit Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                                                Accumulated
and Quarter                      Disbursements                 Disbursements
US$ Million                   US$ Million
FY77
3rd:  March 31, 1977                 12.0                          12.0
4th:  June 30, 1977                  11.0                          23.0
FY78
lst: Sept 30, 1977                    9.0                          32.0
2nd: Dec  31, 1977                    2.0                          34.0
3rd: March 31, 1978                   3.0                          37.0
4th: June 30, 1978                    1.0                          38.0
FY79
1st: Sept 30, 1978                    1.0                          39.0
2nd: Dec  31, 1978                    0.3                          39.3
3rd: March 31, 1979                   0.3                          39.6
4th: June 30, 1979                    0.4                          40.0



MAP
Page 1
PAKISTAN
1976 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
Key to Map
Serial
Letter              Location of Storm and Flood Damage
Baluchistan
(A)     Provincial capital, Quetta.  Widespread damage caused by heavy
rainfall and torrents, swollen from prolonged storms of July 23 -
August 10 and August 29 - September 2 (see (M), (H), (N) and (0)
below).
(B)     Bolan Dam; earth fill embankment overtopped and washed away,
causing local damage downstream.
(C)     DesertKirthar canal command extensively and severely damaged by
repeated destructive flows in torrent streams.
North West Frontier
(D)     Provincial capital, Peshawar.  Province-wide damage from prolonged
heavy rainfall, particularly during July 31 - August 4. Destruction
of buildings, roads, canals caused by precipitation, torrent overflows
and deep inundation in lower lying areas along Kabul river and Mardan.
(E)     Bannu District; irrigation canals, drains and  roads extensively
damaged.
(F)     Low-lying areas near D.I. Khan damaged, protective bunds and Indus
river control works destroyed.
Punjab
(G)     Provincial capital, Lahore.  Province-wide damage and destruction of
buildings, flood protection bunds, canals, roads, railways and drains
caused by recurrent storms, particularly from July 31 - August 3
centered on Campbellpur, and from August 8-10.
(H)     Path of severe monsoon depression primarily affecting Punjab July 31 -
August 3, and NWF August 1 - 4.
(I)     Torrent flows damage railways, roads, link canals and irrigated areas
in vicinity of Gujrat and Jhelum.
(J)     Flood spill from Chenab and border areas caused extensive damage tco
link canals, irrigated areas and roads in Sialkot-Gujranwala areas.



MAP
Page 2
Serial
Letter
(K)       Many bund breaches and drain overflows caused damage to irrigated
areas, railways, roads and towns of lower Punjab, especially in
Multan, Jhang and Lyallpur Districts.
Sind
(L)       Provincial capital, Karachi.  Province-wide damage from direct
rainfall, bund breaches and torrent flow on both banks of Indus
river.
(M)       Path of monsoon depression July 23-26, primarily affecting northern
Sind and eastern Baluchistan.
(N)       Path of monsoon depression August 8-10, primarily affecting northern
Punjab.
(0)       Path of monsoon depression August 29 - September 2, primarily
affecting southern Sind.
(P)       Major breach in bund on Indus left bank caused extensive flooding
around Rohri and in Nara, Khairpur East Feeder and Rohri canal
commands, including Khairpur II Project.
(Q)       Major breaches in Indus  right bank bunds and inundation from
torrents caused very extensive damage around and north of Lake
Manchar, affecting irrigated areas, roads, railways and towns.
(R)       Torrent discharges and breaches in Indus right bank bunds caused
inundation of irrigated areas, drainage to roads and railway.
(S)       Torrents and breaches in bunds caused inundation of irrigated
areas near Kalri Lake.



dX~~~~~I



