CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 683 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(1976 Flood Damage Restoration Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 8, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 8, 1977, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN, acting by its President (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.  Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Punjab" means the Province of the Punjab, a political
subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(b)   "Sind" means the Province of Sind, a political
subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(c) "Baluchistan" means the Province of Baluchistan, a
political subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(d)   "NWFP" means the North West Frontier Province, a
political subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(e)   "the Provinces" mean the Provinces referred to in
paragraphs (a) to (d) of this Section; and
(f)   "Flood Damage Restoration Coordination Committee"
and "Project Coordinating Committee" mean the committees referred
to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement, respectively.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forL, million dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May
15 and November 15 commencing May 15, 1987, and ending November
15, 2026, each installment to and including the installment
payable on November 15, 1996, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿-3-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Chairman of the Flood Damage Restoration
Coordination Committee or such other person or persons as the
Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Ministry of Finance,
Planning and Development, Economic Affairs Division, shall
designate in writing are designated as representatives of the
Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) carry out such
components of the Project as are within the Borrower's
jurisdiction; and (ii) cause the Provinces to carry out such
components of the Project as are within the jurisdiction of the
Provinces, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause the Provinces to perform their respective
obligations referred to in Schedule 4 hereto (as such Schedule
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association), and shall take and cause to be taken all
action necessary or appropriate to enable the Provinces
respectively to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall make available to the Provinces
the proceeds of the Credit allocated, under Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, to such components of the Project as are within the
jurisdiction of the Provisions.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
arrangements to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Provinces referred to in Section 5.01 hereof in such manner as


﻿4-
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and
to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign
nor amend, abrogate or waive such arrangements or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower and the
Provinces in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ
or cause to be employed consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) establish and maintain
until the Closing Date a Flood Damage Restoration Coordination
Committee to be assisted by consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association; and (b)
cause to be established and maintained until the Closing Date, a
Project Coordinating Committee in each of the Provinces, all with
powers, responsibilities, staff, facilities and resources mutually
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a)  not later than July 1, 1977, or such other date as the
Association shall agree, establish an organizational unit to
assist the Borrower in carrying out Part C.1 of the Project and
implementing the action program referred to in the said Part C.1;
and
(b)   not later than July 31, 1978, or such other date as
shall be agreed with the Association, furnish to the Association
for discussion the plan and program referred to in Part C.1 of the
Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a)   not later than December 31, 1977, or such other date
as the Association shall agree, furnish to the Association for
discussion the study referred to in Part C.2 of the Project; and
(b)   not later than March 31, 1978, or such other date as
the Association shall agree, start the implementation of the
recommendations resulting from the review by the Borrower and the
Association of the study referred to herein above.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall not later than June 30,
1978, or such other date as the Association shall agree, furnish


﻿-6-
to the Association for its comments the study referred to in Part
C.3 of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower and the Provinces
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall promptly upon receipt of
appropriate applications issue, or cause to be issued, such import
licenses as shall be required to carry out the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall operate, and cause each
of the Provinces to operate, its drainage and flood protection
works and equipment and facilities and its construction equipment
and to make from time to time all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering practices.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) arrangements satisfactory to the Association shall have
been made between the Borrower and each of the Provinces for the
participation in the Project by the Provinces in accordance with
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(b) consultants to be responsible for the supervision of the
execution of Parts A and B of the Project shall have been employed
by the Borrower; and
(c) the Flood Damage Restoration Coordination Committee and
the Provincial Project Coordinating Committees referred to in


﻿-7-
Section 3.06 of this Agreement have been established by the
Borrower and the Provinces, respectively.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the arrangements referred to in Section 5.01 have
been duly entered into on behalf of the Borrower and each of the
Provinces, and constitute a legally binding obligation of each of
the parties thereto in accordance with their terms; and
(b) that the establishment of the committees referred to in
Section 3.06 of this Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 5.03. The date April 8, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Development, Economic Affairs
Division is designated as representative of the Borrower fGz the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Ministry of Finance, Planning
and Development
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan


﻿-8-
Cable address:
ECONOMIC
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                    440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties thereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC.OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ Abdoul Majid Mufti
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated               % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil Works
(a) under Part          14,400,000            60%
A.1 of the
Project
(b) under Part          12,000,000            25%
A.2 of the
Project
(2) Equipment and
Materials:
(a) under Part           3,700,000             50%
B.1 of the
Project
(b) under Parts          6,900,000            100% of foreign
B.2 and B.4                              expenditures
of the Project                           for directly
imported items
or 60% of local
expenditures
for locally
procured goods


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(c) under Part          1,800,000           100% of foreign
B.3 of the                              expenditures
Project                                 for directly
imported items
or 60% of local
expenditures
for locally
procured goods
(3) Consultants'             1,200,000          100%
Services
TOTAL     40,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds
of the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required


﻿- 11 -
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Association.
4.    Notwithtanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $10,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories 1 (a), 1
(b) and 2 (a) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule on account of payments made for such expenditures before
that date but after September 1, 1976.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will
be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower in
implementing its program for the immediate restoration of
infrastructure damaged by the 1976 floods, and consists of the
following Parts:
A.   1.   Large-scale restoration of irrigation, drainage and
flood protection works to be carried out by major
contractors.
2.   Restoration work on roads and railways, and other
irrigation, drainage and flood protection facilities.
B.   1.   Provision of spare parts and tools for the repair of
equipment for works under Part A.2 of the Project.
2.   Provision and utilization of specialized equipment for
works under Part A.2 of the Project.
3.   Provision and utilization of materials and assemblies
for works under Part A.2 of the Project.
4.   Provision and installation of equipment for flood
forecasting, and training of operating staff.
C.   1.   Preparation of a national flood protection plan and
action program.
2.   Completion of a study reviewing existing operation
and maintenance procedures for flood protection and
drainage facilities in each of the Provinces with a view
to making recommendations for their improvement.
3.   Carrying out of a study for the development of the
civil works contracting industry in Pakistan.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1978.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   Civil Works
1.   Contracts for civil works under Part A.1 of the Project shall
be awarded through negotiations after solicitation of quotations
from contractors prequalified for major works on the basis of
appropriate unit rates.
2.   Contracts for stoneworks and structures, and about 40% of the
earthworks under Part A.2 of the Project shall be awarded to
prequalified contractors in accordance with the competitive
bidding procedures of the Provinces. The remainder of civil works
under Part A.2 of the Project may be carried out under force
account.
B.   Spare Parts, Equipment and Materials
1.    Except as provided in Parts B.2 and 3 hereinunder, spare
parts, equipment and materials shall be procured through
Mechanized Construction Pakistan Ltd in accordance with its
procurement procedures.
2.   Equipment and materials required for the Project by Pakistan
Railways and the Borrower's Telegraph and Telephone Department
shall be procured in accordance with their respective normal
procurement procedures.
3.   Equipment with unit prices estimated to exceed the equivalent
of $5,000 each shall be procured after solicitation of quotations
from at least three qualified suppliers in member countries of
the Bank and Switzerland; in cases where standardization is to
be achieved, such equipment may be procured from original
manufacturers.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the


﻿- 14 -
analysis of bids and quotations relating to the award (if
applicable) and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
SCHEDULE 4
Participation in the
Project by the Provinces
1.    The Provinces shall agree to carry out such components
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement as are within the jurisdiction of each Province, in each
case with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices
and shall respectively provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose, with a view to the substantial
completion of the works under Part A of the Project by July 31,
1977.
2.    (a) For the purposes of Part A.2 of the Project, the
Provinces shall take such action on their part as shall be
necessary to put their existing machinery and equipment into
satisfactory operational condition,
(b)  In carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, the Provinces
shall utilize such machinery and equipment suitable for the
purpose as shall be available to them.
3.   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Provinces
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit made available to them by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
4.    Each of the Provinces shall furnish to the Association
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modification.s thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association may
reasonably request.


﻿- 15 -
5.    (a) Each of the Provinces: (i) shall maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project, (ii) shall,
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 9 of this
Schedule, enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine Parts A and B of the Project, the goods financed out of
such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association may reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b)   Each of the Provinces shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices their operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the components of the Project which are within the
jurisdiction of such Province.
6.    Each of the Provinces shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out
Part A of the Project.
7.    Each of the Provinces shall cooperate fully with the
Association to assure that the purposes of the Project will be
accomplished. To that end, each of the Provinces shall from time
to time, at the request of the Association, exchange views with it
through their representatives with regard to the performance of
the obligations of the Province under this Schedule, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Project.
8.   Each of the Provinces shall promptly inform the Association
through the Borrower of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Project, or the performance by the Provinces of their
obligations under this Schedule.
9.    Each of the Provinces shall enable the Association's
representatives to examine all their respective plants, sites,
works, properties and equipment and any relevant records and
documents.


