Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  05/15/2005 
Report No.:  32355
1. Project Statistics  
 
Country:  Tonga 
Project ID:  P079657 
Project Name:  Tonga Education Support Project 
Task Team Leader:  Ian R. Collingwood 
Estimated Appraisal Date: May 2, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: June 16, 2005 
Managing Unit:  EASHD 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  General education sector (100%) 
Theme:  Education for the knowledge economy (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
1.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The objective of the Tonga Education Support Program (TESP) is to successfully 
implement the first 5 years of the 15-Year Education Policy Framework (EPF).  To 
achieve the EPF goals, a 15-year program has been set out by the Government. The five-
year TESP represents the implementation of the first phase of this program and, in 
particular, focuses on improving the quality of primary and secondary education, the 
equitable delivery of services and resources, and a strengthening of management, policy 
making, and monitoring and evaluation within the sector. While the institutional 
responsibility for implementing the EPF program rests with MOE, its success will be 
contingent upon considerable support from both government agencies (most notably 
MoF) and the numerous providers of education in the non-government sector.   
 
3. Project Description 
TESP is designed as two clusters of activities.  TESP Cluster 1, financed jointly by the 
World Bank and NZAID, focuses on establishing an intervention at the school level to 
ensure equitable provision of universal basic education.  This is a major initiative under 
the Universal Basic Education reforms of the EPF. TESP Cluster 2, financed solely by 
NZAID, includes teacher education, curriculum development, skills development etc.  
 
Project Components  
Page  2
1. TESP Cluster 1:  The Tonga Schools Grants Program (TSGP): US$5.1 million  
 
*
Component 1: Policy, Planning and Monitoring and Evaluation (USD 1,044,000).  
 
Sub-component 1.1 - Policy Development (USD 400,000)  
 
Sub-component 1.2 - Planning, Management and Monitoring  
 
and Evaluation (USD 644,000)  
 
*
Component 2 : School Grants (USD 4,056,000).  
 
Sub-component 2.1 - TSGP Management (USD 998,000)  
 
Sub-component 2.2 - Grants to Schools (USD 3,058,000)   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Location:  Tonga  
 
There will be no land acquisition or resettlement under the project.  The entire 
population of Tonga is a single ethnic group, so the project as a whole will constitute the 
Indigenous People's Development Plan.  It is expected that there will be no, or only 
minimal, environmental impacts.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Specialists on the Team 
Mr Bruce M. Harris (EASSD) 
Mr James Orehmie Monday (EASEN) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
It is not anticipated that any social safeguards issues will be triggered under the project.  
There will be no land acquisition or resettlement, nor is it anticipated there will be 
cultural property issues.  
 
The environmental impacts of this project are expected to be minor, and relating 
primarily to issues concerning school rehabilitation or maintenance.  Comprehensive 
guidelines will be developed for this and technical support provided to ensure that grants 
Page  3
are spent wisely and civil works undertaken will meet all required environmental 
safeguard standards and applicable building codes.  Critical to the success of the School 
Grants Program is an adherence to Government of Tonga's environmental safeguards and 
building codes and the environmental guidelines of the Development Partners that are 
financing TESP.  Specifically, in respect of TESP-financed school rehabilitation and 
maintenance, the project is concerned about:  
 
1)
The use of appropriate rehabilitation/maintenance techniques.  
 
2)
The placement of sanitation facilities.  
 
3)
Sewage disposal techniques.  
 
4)
The disposal of building waste.  
 
5)
Possible issue if asbestos material already existing in construction.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
N/A   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
N/A   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The Government of Tonga has prepared an Environmental Management Framework 
(EMF).  This EMF establishes a mechanism to determine and assess future potential 
environmental impacts, and then sets out mitigation, monitoring and institutional 
measures to be taken during design, rehabilitation and operation of the schools to manage 
these impacts. The Ministry of Education will be involved in managing these 
environmental impacts.  The MOE has the required capacity for this task, and will be 
further supported with a budget of US$90,000 to carryout their role.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Key stakeholders in the project include government, churches and other non-government 
providers, and teachers, parents, students and the larger community at the local level.  
Consultations have been held with all key stakeholders, including with communities 
(teachers, parents, students, PTAs, etc.) as a part of preparation.  These consultations 
have identified some of the critical constraints to effective delivery of educational 
services, and some of the priorities of people at the local level with respect to improving 
delivery.  
 
Over the course of the project, local level consultations will be an important part of both 
project implementation and the monitoring and evaluation process.  Community groups, 
including the PTA, will take an active part in determining local priorities for the use of 
the school grants, and will participate in both implementation and in monitoring results.  
PTAs and other local groups will make significant contributions in terms of time and 
labor to local programs for improvement of school facilities and outcomes.  Qualitative 
Page  4
assessment of the success of the project through consistent consultation with local 
communities will be an important part of the monitoring and evaluation system.  
 
During preparation consultations have been held with key civil society organizations, 
including women' organizations, youth groups and a variety of other community 
organizations and groups.  Consultation will continue with these groups during 
implementation and as a part of the monitoring and evaluation process.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
05/10/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
05/13/2005 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
05/12/2005 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety 
of Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of 
the Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
The Ministry of Education has prepared an EMF which will be available and distributed 
in hard copy form at the Ministry of Education.  It will also be placed on the Ministry's 
official website before negotiations.   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit review and approve the EA 
report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Page  5
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Ian R. Collingwood 
04/26/2005 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr James Orehmie Monday 
05/13/2005 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Bruce M. Harris 
05/13/2005 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Glenn S. Morgan 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Christopher J. Thomas 
05/02/2005 
Comments:   
