Page  1
CONFORMED 
COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4081-TON 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Tonga Education Support Project) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF TONGA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 5, 2005 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 4081-TON 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 2005, between the KINGDOM OF TONGA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of Part A (except Part A. 3(a)) of the Project; 
(B) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Association as administrator of grant funds provided by the New Zealand Agency for 
International Development (NZAID), to make a grant in an amount not exceeding three 
million eight hundred eighteen thousand Dollars ($3,818,000) (the NZAID Grant) to assist 
in financing of Parts A.3(a) and B of the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Co-Financing Grant Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement:  
“Section 6.03(c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the words 
“corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Education Sector Committee” means the committee referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Page  4
-
2
-
(b) 
“Eligible Categories” means Category 1 set forth in the table in Part A.1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for consultants’ services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement. 
(d) 
“Environmental Management Framework” means the framework, dated 
May 9, 2005, setting forth procedures and standards to ensure that environmental  
impacts under Part B.2 of the Project are addressed during Project implementation, in a 
manner and substance satisfactory to the Association, as such framework may be 
amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Association.
 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(f) 
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any 
of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on July 1 and ends on June 30 in 
each calendar year. 
(g) 
“Ministry of Education” or its acronym “MOE” means the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Education, and any successor thereto. 
(h) 
“MSS” means the national minimum service standards for all primary 
and secondary schools prescribed by the Borrower’s Ministry of Education. 
(i) 
“National Reserve Bank of Tonga” means the Borrower’s central bank, 
and any successor thereto.  
(j) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
May 11, 2005, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation. 
 
(k) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account referred to in Part A
.
2
of
Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(l) 
“School Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made, by the 
Borrower, out of the proceeds of the NZAID Grant, to a School Grant Beneficiary for the 
purposes of carrying out a School Grant Sub-project, and the term “School Grants” 
means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
 
(m) 
“School Grant Beneficiary” means a government or non-government 
primary or secondary school selected to participate in Parts A. 3(a) and B of the Project, 
Page  5
-
3
-
to whom, and for whose benefit, a School Grant is made or proposed to be made, and the 
term “School Grant Beneficiaries” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
(n) 
“School Grant Operations Manual” means the manual setting forth, 
inter 
alia
,
eligibility criteria, procedures and guidelines for the selection, approval, 
administration and supervision of a School Grant Sub-project and to be adopted by the 
Borrower pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Association, and such term 
includes any schedules to the School Grant Operations Manual. 
 
(o) 
“School Grants Program” means the program referred to in Part B of the 
Project.  
 
(p) 
"School Grant Sub-project" means a specific school improvement  
project that meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the School Grant Operations Manual, 
to be carried out by a School Grant Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a School Grant; 
and the term “School Grant Sub-projects” means, collectively, the plural thereof.  
(q) 
 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to six hundred sixty two thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 662,000). 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of consultants’ services required for Part A (except for Part A.3 (a)) of 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2010, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
Page  6
-
4
-
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 
15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 2015, and ending June 15, 2045.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2025, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.  
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
Page  7
-
5
-
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
(5) years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of United Sates of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through the Ministry of Education with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, management, financial, and education  
practices, and sound social and environmental standards acceptable to the Association, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the NZAID Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
Page  8
-
6
-
later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
 Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan to ensure the continued achievement of the Project objectives; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association) audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Page  9
-
7
-
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.2 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements), the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports are included in the audit for each fiscal 
year (or other period agreed to by the Association), referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 14 of Schedule 4, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish 
to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first financial monitoring report shall be furnished to the Association 
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each financial 
monitoring report shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days 
after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.  
Page  10
-
8
-
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified: 
(a) 
(i) 
Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph: the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the NZAID Grant made to 
the Borrower for the financing of Parts A.3(a) and B
 
of
the 
Project shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the Co-financing Grant 
Agreement providing therefor; or 
(ii) 
Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
Co-Financing Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Development Credit 
Agreement, have been fulfilled; and 
(b) 
the Borrower, through the Ministry of Education, has engaged a 
procurement advisor, with qualifications and terms of reference, acceptable to the 
Association, pursuant to paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  11
-
9
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Vuna Road, Nuku ‘alofa 
 
Kingdom of Tonga 
 
Facsimile:  
 
676-26-011 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  12
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF TONGA 
 
By /s/ 
Siosiua T. T. ‘Utokamanu  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Jemal ud-din Kassum 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  13
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Consultants’ services 
662,000 
90% for individual 
 
under Part A (except 
 
consultants and 100% 
 
Part A.3(a)) of the  
 
for consulting firms 
 Project 
______ 
 
TOTAL 662,000
2. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the financial monitoring report and any other 
information as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based 
Disbursements).  In the case of the first such request submitted to the Association before 
any withdrawal has been made from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall submit to the 
Association only a statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the date of such request. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the 
National Reserve Bank of Tonga, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Annex A to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Page  14
-
12
-
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.2 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements.  
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
Page  15
-
13
-
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement. 
Page  16
-
14
-
Annex A  
to  
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.2 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
 
Page  17
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in establishing a consistent 
and equitable mechanism that will empower schools and communities to improve the 
quality of schooling at primary and secondary schools levels, and to produce an upward 
trend in educational outcomes.      
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of MOE, specifically with respect to the School 
Grants Program, to: (a) develop, analyze and review education policies; (b) establish 
investment priorities, (c) develop specific rolling plans based on the sector priorities; (d) 
efficiently allocate resources; and (e) conduct consultative policy dialogues with relevant 
stakeholders.    
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of MOE to: (a) develop and annually review three (3) 
year rolling plans detailing the Project investments and the performance indictors at both 
the national and school levels; and (b) monitor the Project implementation and collect 
baseline information for the Project.    
3. 
Strengthening the capacity of the schools participating in the Project, including: 
(a) provision of School Grants for managing their resources and planning their three (3) 
years rolling development plans; and (b) provision of training to head teachers, teachers 
and community members.   
Part B
:
School Grants Program
1. 
Designing, managing, and monitoring the School Grants Program, including:
 
(a) 
providing technical assistance to design and manage the School Grants 
Program, and to develop the operations guidelines for said Program;  
(b) 
conducting public awareness campaigns for the School Grants Program;  
(c) 
providing training to schools participating in the School Grants Program 
on the processes and procedures of the School Grants Program; and  
(d) 
supporting the annual review of the performance of the participating 
schools in the School Grants Program.   
Page  18
-
16
-
2. 
Providing School Grants to selected primary or secondary schools to finance the 
schools’ overall development needs detailed in their three (3) year rolling plans.   
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009. 
Page  19
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. All 
goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
1. Community 
Participation
.
Goods, works and services required for Part B.2 of the 
Project may be procured on the basis of community participation in accordance with the 
procedures specified in the Procurement Plan. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  20
-
18
-
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis with the prior approval of the 
Association. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:  
(a) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000
 
or more; and    
(b) 
each contract for consultant services provided by a firm or an individual 
consultant to be selected on single source or sole source basis pursuant to paragraphs 3 
and 4 of Section III of this Schedule, regardless of its contract value.   
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
 
Page  21
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
Project Management
1. 
The Borrower shall establish by September 30, 2005, and maintain the Education 
Sector  Committee, with terms of reference, composition, and resources, acceptable to the 
Association, to be responsible for making policy recommendations to the Minister of the 
Ministry of Education based on its review of the financial, technical, and progress reports 
of the Project. 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the period of implementation of the 
Project, with terms of reference, staffing, and other resources acceptable to the 
Association, the Procurement Unit within MOE, to be responsible for the procurement 
activities under the Project. 
Project Implementation
3. 
The Borrower, through MOE, shall: 
(a) 
adopt and thereafter implement the School Grants Operations Manual, in 
a
manner and substance satisfactory to the Association, which shall include the 
description of: (i) eligibility criteria, procedures and guidelines for the selection, 
approval, administration and supervision of School Grant Sub-projects; (ii) selection 
criteria for School Grant Beneficiaries; (iii) procurement procedures; (iv) financial 
management and disbursement procedures; (v) monitoring and evaluation procedures; 
(vi) the intended purpose of provision of the School Grants; and (vii) a negative list of 
items that shall not be financed by the School Grants; and     
(b) 
not assign, amend, abrogate, suspend, or waive any provision of said  
School Grants Operations Manual, without the prior concurrence of the Association. 
 
4. Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
conduct an annul joint review, in accordance with terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, in December of each Fiscal Year, beginning from 
December 31, 2005, and furnish to the Association by June 30 in each Fiscal Year, for 
review and approval, a proposed action plan for the carrying out of the Project during the 
following Fiscal Year, together with a budget and a financing plan therefor; and  
 
(b) 
thereafter, carry out the Project in accordance with such action plan as 
shall have been approved by the Association. 
Page  22
-
20
-
5.  
The Borrower shall, no later than December 31, 2006, conduct a public 
awareness campaign to promote MSS and the School Grants Program to the relevant 
stakeholders, in manner, satisfactory to the Association. 
6.  
The Borrower shall engage a procurement advisor, with qualifications and terms 
of reference, satisfactory to the Association.  The Borrower further undertakes to 
maintain said procurement advisor on a full-time basis for at least twelve (12) months to 
assist the procurement activities under the Project.    
7. 
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Education, shall:  
(a) 
not later than October 31, 2005, engage a firm to be responsible for 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project implementation, with qualifications and terms of 
reference, acceptable to the Association; and  
 
(b) 
not later than December 31, 2006
,
establish the Project’s school-level 
baseline data for the purpose of monitoring and evaluation of the Project’s progress, in a 
manner, satisfactory to the Association. 
8. 
The Borrower shall ensure that MOE fills: (a) its priority vacant posts to be 
identified during its restructuring not later than February 28, 2006; and (b) its non-
priority posts to be identified through its restructuring not later than August 30, 2006, in a 
manner, satisfactory to the Association.  
School Grants and School Grants Sub-projects
9.  
The Borrower shall ensure that:  (a) School Grants Sub-projects shall be selected, 
approved, and monitored in accordance with the provisions of the School Grant 
Operations Manual, acceptable to the Association; and (b) School Grants shall be made in 
accordance with procedures and on conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
10. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each School Grant for a School Grant Sub-project 
shall be made to a beneficiary, who meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the School 
Grant Operations Manual. 
11. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each School Grant should be governed by a 
funding formula, acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, which is determined by 
the following: (a) the record of the students’ enrollment; (b) the extent to which the 
school meets or exceeds MSS; (c) the Borrower’s assessment of the school’s service 
delivery capacity; and (d) the actual needs detailed in the School’s three year (3) rolling 
plan.   
12. 
The Borrower shall not provide a School Grant to a School Grant Beneficiary 
during the subsequent years, until said beneficiary has submitted a report to the Borrower 
and the Association with account information of the use of the previous year’s School 
Grant and statements of performance measured by the indicators agreed between the 
Page  23
-
21
-
Borrower and the School Grant Beneficiary; and the Borrower and Association have  
found such report acceptable. 
13. 
The Borrower shall obtain through a written contract with each of the School 
Grant Beneficiaries, or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Association, including that each School Grant  
Beneficiary shall undertake to: 
 
 
(a) 
require that the eligible School Grant Beneficiary: (i) carry out the 
School Grant Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
appropriate administrative, financial, technical, managerial and educational practices and 
sound environmental and social  standards; (ii) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the School Grant Sub-project; (iii) 
maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures relating to the School Grant Sub-project; and (iv) 
carry out the School Grant Sub-project in accordance with the Environmental 
Management Framework, in a manner, satisfactory to the Association.  
 
(b) 
require that the works to be financed from the proceeds of the School 
Grant shall: (i) be procured in accordance with procedures ensuring efficiency and 
economy and in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this  Agreement; and (ii) 
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the School Grant Sub-project or Sub-projects; 
and 
 
(c) 
reserve for the Borrower the right to: 
(i) 
inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and 
construction included in the School Grant Sub-project or Sub-
projects, the operations thereof and any relevant records and 
documents; 
(ii) 
obtain all information as the Borrower or the Association shall 
reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and 
financial conditions of the School Grant Beneficiary; and 
(iii) 
suspend or terminate the right of the eligible School Grant 
Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the School Grant upon the 
failure by the eligible School Grant Beneficiary to perform any 
of its obligations under contract entered into between MOE and 
the concerned School Grant Beneficiary. 
Page  24
-
22
-
Monitoring and Reporting
14. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures, adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, the following reports: 
 (i) 
semi-annual reports, not later than May 31 and November 30 in 
each Fiscal Year, beginning on November 30, 2005: 
(A) integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities, performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of  the 
Project by the Borrower, during the six-month period preceding 
the date of said report; and (B) setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and  
(ii) 
a mid-term report, not later than November 30, 2007, or such 
later date as the Association may have agreed, integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to sub-paragraphs (a) and (b)(i) of this paragraph, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and 
(c) after 
furnishing: 
(i) 
each report referred to in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this paragraph, 
review said report with the Association, and promptly take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association
’s views on the matter; and  
Page  25
-
23
-
(ii) 
the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b)(ii) of this paragraph, 
review said report with the Association, by December 31, 2007, 
or such later date as the Association shall request, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
Page  26
-
24
-
SCHEDULE
 
5
Project Performance Indicators 
1.  
Policies and mechanisms are adopted that provide all schools with access to 
School Grants.   A school financing policy framework is developed, to include policy and 
guidelines on School Grants, school-level multi-year planning and budgeting, and 
funding formulas that provide access to funds adequate to equalize services across 
schools (primary and secondary).   
2. 
Management capacity is strengthened at the MOE and school levels to: (a) assess 
schools’ needs; (b) determine and prioritize policies and allocate budget therefor; and (c) 
implement and assess the progress under the Project and communicate with stakeholders.  
3. 
Quality assessment systems are established.  The MSS is established and applied 
at primary and secondary schools.  The procedures and capacities for assessing 
compliance with MSS are developed. 
4.  
The resources are allocated more equitably.  MOE’s capacity is strengthened in 
public expenditure management, policy making, and monitoring and evaluation.   
5. 
Performance based programming is established.  Schools manage resources 
effectively to meet MSS.     
6. 
An upward trend in educational outcomes, both academic and non-academic is 
established for students in schools.   The upward trend is monitored by indicators, such as 
net enrollment rates, repetition, dropout, and transition rates, and student test 
performances.  
 
