                                                                        57316 v1
                TONGA -- TONGA EDUCATION SUPPORT PROJECT

                                         P079657

       NZAID Cofinancing Grant TF054014 and Development Credit 4081-TON


                                  Restructuring Paper



1.      We are proposing to extend the closing date for the NZAID grant in support of the
Tonga Education Support Project (P079657) from June 30, 2010 to October 31, 2010.
The 4 month extension, which will not include a grace period, is the maximum extension
allowable, given the current administration agreement closing date of December 31,
2010. Because additional time is likely to be required to complete implementation of the
NZAID grant, we will work with NZAID to extend the closing date of the administration
agreement and subsequently request a second extension of the grant closing date. We are
also proposing to extend the closing date for the IDA credit in Support of TESP from
June 30, 2010 to June 30, 2011. This would be the first extension of the closing dates of
both this grant and this credit. Both extensions were discussed with GoT during the last
supervision mission. There are no outstanding audits or audit-related matters under the
project.

2.      The Tonga Education Support Project is implementing well and achieving its
development objectives. Both implementation and achievement of development
objectives are rated satisfactory in the latest ISR. The school grants program, in
particular, is a good practice example for other countries in the region. 96.66% of the
credit has been disbursed, and 71.47% of the grant.

3.      Despite the successful implementation to date, the proposed extension of the
NZAID grant is necessary because of the nature of the school grant funding scheme in
Tonga. Funding is allocated to schools once annually in late June. Once the schools
receive their allocation, they expend the funding over time. We will monitor the situation
to ensure that a 4 month extension provides adequate time to expend the grant funds.
Extension of the IDA credit is necessary due to the late start made by GoT in deciding to
use the credit financing to allocate maintenance and rehabilitation grants to selected
schools. A 12 month extension of the closing date should allow these larger maintenance
and rehabilitation grants to be fully executed. An action plan for implementation of the
program is attached and will be monitored.
