- ,r1TU> .l ' TtS  I   '; ,^;; t  $;  ; A;J*              N1R ', T P I C r E r0
TFiS repoat was orepared for use vithin the Ban. and its cffiliaited orqanizrjtions.
The;' do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. 'iic report mno,'
tnot be puobliih;d nor niay it be quoted as represent,ng their views.
JNTPWIZ.N'ATION.AL BANK FOR          RECONSTRU TTIONC         ANiD   DECVELOP-MENTL
LINTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMEENT AS)SOCIATIONT
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND RA.ILWWA' PROJECT
YUGOST AVIA
N4oer'niThr 30,     1964
T.'partmrern ot Technic-zl       ,-)eratiox1s



CURRCENCY EQUIVALENTS
I U.S. Dollar  =   Dinars 750
1,000 Dinars   =   U.S. $1.33
Yuffoslov Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



YUCGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAT, OF A SECOND RIUTJAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
SU;i'AARY
I. BITRODUCTION                                              1
II. BACKGROUND                                                1-4
A. General                                                1
B. Transport in Yugoslavia                                1-3
C. Transport Coordination                                 3-4
III. THE RAILWAY SYSTE1                                        4-17
A. Organization, Ilanagement and Staff                    4-6
B. The Network                                            6
C. Physical Properties                                    6-8
D. Traffic                                                8
E. Operations                                             9-1,)
F. Finances and Earnings                                 10-16
G. The 1964-70 Railway Investment Plan                   16-17~
TV. THEE PROJECT                                              18-22
A. Description                                           18-19
B. Estimated Cost of the Project                         19-20
C. Administration and Execution                          20-21
V. FITURE EAPdJINGS AND FINANCES                            22-24
A. Earnings                                              22-23
B. Finances                                              23-24
VI. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                                   24-27
A. Introduction                                          24
B. Traffic Growth                                        2-4-25
C. The Marshalling Yards                                 25
D. Electrification and Signalling Equipment              26-27
VII. CONCLUSIONS ANDM RECOMI-ENDATIONS                        27



-2-
Table of Contents
TABLES
1. Freight Traffic by Mode of Transport, 1952-1963
2. Passenger Traffic by Mode of Transport, 1952-1963
3. Investment in Transport, 1954-1963
4. Summary of Selected Operating Statistics, 1958-1963
5. Railway Network and Traffic Density, 1925-1963
6. Motive Power and Rolling Stock, Yearly Averages, 1958-1963
7. Freight Traffic by Major Commodities, 1950-1970
8. Revenue, Expenses and Net Income Data. Actual 1959-1963,
Estimated 1964-1970
9. Balance Sheet Data. Actual 1962-1963 and Estimated 1964-1970
10. Seven-Year Investment Plan, 1964-1970
11. Estimated Cost and Schedule of Expenditure of the Project,
1964-1968
12. Schedule of Project Works to be Completed,1965-1968
13. Projected Cash Flow Data, 1964-1970
CHART
Organization of Yugoslav Railways
MAP
Yugoslavia, Railway System



YUGOSLAVIA
Appraisal of a Second Railway Project
SMIOMARY
i.        The Government of Yugoslavia, through its Investment Bank, has
asked the Bank to help finance the Reconstruction,a'nd Modernization Program
of Mainlines, 1964-1968, wqhich is a vital part of'the Railways' Seven-Year In-
vastment Plahn1964-1970-and.-which forms the Project for the proposed Loan. The
Yugoslav Investment Bank would relend the proceeds of the loan to the Rail-
ways on the same terms as those of the loan from the Bank.
ii.       The estimated cost of the project is US$185 million equivalent.
It includes installations for electric traction and signalling on three
mainlines and the construction and modernization of six main marshalling
yards.  This would be the third transportation loan to Yugoslavia, a high-
way loan and a :railway loan having been made in 1963.
iii.      The Project is well conceived and is technically, economically,
and financially sound. The cost estimates are realistic. The procurement
procedures proposed are satisfactory. Whereever priacticable, the various
parts of the Project would be subject to international competitive bidding.
iv.       The Federal Government and the Railways would be responsible for
the execution of the Project. The preparation of plans, the awqard of con-
tracts, and the supervision of construction would be delegated to the Com-
munities of Railway Enterprises in Belgrade, Zagreb, Ljublana, and Sarajevo
and to the Railway Transport Enterprise at Skopje.
v.        Internal organization of the Railways is satisfactory, and their
operation and management is good. Their operating efficiency compares
favorably with other European railways despite the lack of capacity and
deficiencies in equipment which are to be elininated by the Project and the
Seven-Year Investment Plan in general.
vi.       The Railwsays' earnings have generally been satisfactory taking
into consideration existing accounting procedures and other circumstances.
The average operating ratio was 88 during the last three years. Based upon
acceptable estimates of future traffic, future earnings and finances are
expected to be satisfactory.
vii.      The Project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$70
million equivalent to the Yugoslav Investment Bank for a term of 25 years
including a 5-year period of grace.



YUGOSLAVIA
Memorandum on the Economic Situation
Introduction
1.        Early in 1961, the Yugoslav Government took important measures to
carry the decentralization of the economy one step further, to make it more
competitive and to integrate it more closely with the rest of the wTorld.
These reforms required serious adjustments by Yugoslav industry and met
writh unexpected difficulties.  As a result, and also because of lower-
than-average crops, the growth rate declined in 1961 and 1962 to about b%,
which was much less than the 114.% foreseen in the Social Plan for 1961-
1965.   The Government has abandoned this plan and is preparing a new one
for the seven years 1964-1970.   These events were described in more detail
in a report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Yugoslavia",
dated June 12, 1963.
Current Economic Situation
2.        The economic situation reached a turning point in the middle of
1962, when exports began to increase rapidly and provided the impetus for
a general upturn of economic activity.   The upturn was encouraged by a
relaxation of credit policy, which helped to boost both consumer and invest-
ment spending, and by a fair harvest in 1963.    As a result, total output
increased by approximately 12% in 1963; agricultural production rose by
6-7% and industrial production by 16%.   The prospects for 1964 are for
another substantial increase in total production.   Although the wheat har-
vest was poor, agricultural production as a whole may not decline and in-
dustrial production is expected to be about 15% higher.    During the first
five months industrial production showed an *increase of 17.5%, in compari-
son with the same period last year, but the pace of industrial growth is
likely to slow down during the rest of the year.    There are indications
that the economy has overextended itself.   Bottlenecks have developed in
transport, electric power and in the supply of some raw materials.    Early
in the year, there were signs of inflation and the Government took measures
to curb both consumer credit and investment spending.
3.        The upturn was accompanied by high investment.   Total expenditure
on fixed assets rose by about 19% in 1963.   Its percentage share in the
gross material product rose from 30.5% in 1960 to 320l% in 1963 as a result
of an increase in the rate of social investment such as housing, water supply
sewers and the like, from 7.6% to 10.3%.   These investments had lagged be-
hind the big inflow of the rural population into the cities and the new
demands for better living conditions, even in the villages.    Expenditure
on economic investment rose 16% in 1963 and represented 218% of the gross
material product.   Economic investment went increasingly into projects
already under construction or into those which would yield quick returns
and improve the balance of payments, and less into new projects with a long
construction.



- 2 -
4.        The increase in agricultural production in 1963, i4hich greatly
facilitated the further growth of other sectors, was due partly to the
weather, but also to a significant shift in policy.    After another poor
crop in 1962, the Government gave higher priority to agriculture.    Agri-
cultural prices wrere raised.  State farms and cooperatives increased
their acreage under cultivation and efforts wiere made to run them more
efficiently.   The most important change was the increased use of ferti-
lizers, which is expected to reach about 3.0 million tons this year, i.e.
some three times as much as in 1961.   This policy is likely to be con-
tinued if not strengthened.   The low wheat yields in 1964 illustrate,
however, how greatly production depends upon the weather and how difficult
it will be for Yugoslavia to become self-sufficient in cereals.
5.        Industry has made considerable progress since 1961.    Enterprises
have become much more dependent on successful competition in the market and
have been forced to improve the quality of their products and to keep pro-
duction costs in check.   Recent increases in production were achieved wTith
a smaller expansion of employment than before.   The structure of industry
is also changing.   Since 1961 the output of consumer goods and raw materials
has expanded faster than that of investment goods, whereas previously the
opposite was the case.   Durable consumer goods and chemicals have showyed
the greatest advance.
6.        To take up the slack in the economy in 1962, the Government relaxed
its credit policy, and in 1963 it made extra credit available for the victims
of the Skopje earthquake and for rebuilding the city.   As a result bank
credits rose by 29/5 in 1963 and continued to expand during the early part
of 196h4   The expansion in 1963 was partly offset by an increase in deposits
of government authorities, whose budgets taken as a whole closed wjith a con-
siderable surplus.   As a result, the money supply in the hands of the public
increased by 19% and it was clear that inflationary pressures were emerging,
The Government, therefore, took measures in recent months to curb consumer
credit and investment spending and declared its intention to take further
measures, if necessary.
7.        Prices and living costs increased mainly because of higher prices
for agricultural products and raw materials.   In recent months the increase
has also been affected by the greater pressure of demand.    Prices of agri-
cultural products rose by 18% in each of the past two years and even faster
during the first months of 1964.   At the same time, the prices of manufac-
tured products remained practically constant at least until October 1963,
after which they increased slightly.   With such an increase in agricultural
prices, living costs were bound to follow;   they rose by 10.V% in 1962 and
by 5.2% in 1963, and showed an    increase of 7% between September 1963 and
April 1964.   The rise in wages, wThich occurred in response to the rising
cost of living, exceeded the increase in productivity.
8.        After a poor year in 1961, foreign trade improved considerably in
1962 and 1963.   Exports grew faster than total production and imports, and
Yugoslavia's trade with Western Europe, which accounts for almost 45% of
total trade, moved towards greater balance.   During these two years, ex-
ports rose by 36.4% and imports by 14,3%.   During the first five months of



-3-
1964, however, exports rose by 17%4 and imports by 26% in comparison rith
the same period of the previous year.   The recent increase in imports is
partly due to the fact that in 1964, foreign exchange allocations were made
earlier than usual but it also reflects the additional imports for the re-
building of Skopje and the greater pressure of demand.
9.        The trade deficit declined from $348 million in 1961 to $201 million
in 1962, but rose again to $263 million in 1963, mainly on account of greater
food and fertilizer imports.   However, Yugoslavia derives substantial net
receipts from tourism, transit trade, and emigrant labor.  Gross receipts
from foreign tourism rose from $20 million in 1961 to $53 million in 1963
and are expected to continue increasing rapidly during the next few years,
As a result, the deficit on the current account of the balarce of pay ments
was $243 million in 1961 and only $66 million in 1962 and $86 million in
1963.   Foreign capital inflow wras more than sufficient to cover these defi-
cits and Yugoslavia was able to increase its gold and convertible currencyr
reserves from $4109 raillion at the end of 1961 to $107.2 million at the end
of 1963.   However, at the end of April 1964, these reserves had declined to
$71.6 million, an amount equivalent to only three weeks imports.
Prospects
10.       Under the new Constitution, the Federal Assembly is playing a
greater role in the formulation of economic policy and of the development
plan.   This is one of the main reasons why the Plan for 1964-1970 wiill not
be completed before the end of this year.   Previously the Plan was presented
to Parliament as the Government's proposal in its final form, consisting of
one set of interdependent objectives, to be accepted or rejected as a whole.
This time, a preliminary Outline of the Plan, i-rhich included a number of
alternative sets of targets, was submitted to Parliament.  The alternative
chosen by Parliament will be the basis for finalizing the Plan.  The inten-
tion is to obtain a wide consensus on development objectives and to gain
general Parliamentary support for the implementation of the Plan.
11.       The Plan for 1964-1970 is likely to put less emphasis on the rate
of growth and to give higher priorityr to an increase in living standards.
The Outline of the Plan now before Parliament offers two alternatives. The
first provides for an overall growth rate of 8.8% per annum with a correspond-
ing yearly increase of 7.3% in investment, while the second provides for an
overall growTth rate of 9.5% per annum and a 9% annual increase in investment.
Personal consumption is expected to growJ at a yearly rate of 9% under the
first alternative and by 8.Vs under the second.  These overall growth rates
are modest in comparison with the 11% annual growth rate in the previous
Five-Year Plan.
12.       One of the Plan's objectives is to integrate the economy more closely
vwith the rest of the world by developing specialized production for export,
and hence to eliminate the deficit on the balance of payments.  Exports are
scheduled to grow by 10.% yearly under the first alternative and by 11.1%
per annum under the second, i.e. faster than total production in both cases.
The Plan is likely to stress the development of tourism and of exports of
the non-ferrous metal industry, i.e. copper, lead, zinc, and aluminum. The



Government intends to apply for full membership in GATT,'and hopes to bene-
fit from the Kennedy-Roimd of tariff negotiations.   The threat to Yugoslav
exports to the U.S0 from the withdrawal of the most favored nation clause
has disappeared and new possibilities are being explpred for greater trade
with the Eastern Bloc and the less developed countries~
13,       In addition to the achievement of the specific objectives contained
in the Plan, Yugoslav economic policy can be expected to continue its empha-
sis on iworkers' self-management and its attempt to rationalize the process of
making economic decisions.   It is hoped to reduce the degree of administra-
tive intervention in the affairs of enterprises and to give both banks and
enterprises more autonomy and greater responsibility for investment decisions,
It is too early to appraise the feasibility of the new Plan or to judge the
effect of the process of decentralization and relaxation of government con-
trol on the prospects of economic growrth   The economy has, however, amply
demonstrated its ability to grot.T and it should continue to do so even if at
a less rapid pace than in the past.
Creditiorthiness
140       Yugoslavia's external debt amounts to $1,109 million0   Of this
amount $41 rnillion is repayable to the Eastern bloc in eastern European
currencies or in commodities, and $1,068 million is repayable in gold or
western currencies.   These amounts include practically all external indebted-
ness since almost all foreign debts are guaranteed by the government and
there is no direct foreign investment0   Of this debt, $350 million has not
yet been disbursed, so that the disbursed debt amounts to $759 million0
Yugoslavia's total debt is not unusually high; if it consisted only of long
term debt, the annual debt service would amount to around 10% of foreign
exchange earnings,   However, almost half the debt consists of suppliers'
credits so that debt service is high in relation to total debt0   An amount
almost equal to the total debt now disbursed has to be repaid in five years,
In 1964 debt service is $204 million which represents 18.5% of foreign ex-
change earnings0
150       A reduction of the balance of payments deficit and an increase in
foreign exchange reserves are important objectives of Government policyo
To improve the balance of payments is, in fact, a necessity in view of the
decline in the amount of U0So aid in the form of surplus agricultural com-
modities0   However, the Yugoslav economy still needs to import capital and
hence the external debt must be expected to increase in the future0   Since
over the period 196h-1970 Yugoslavia must repay some $820 million, gross
borrowing wrill have to be substantialo  As long as Yugoslavia is able to
continue borrowring the new credits serve, in effect, to roll over the exist-
ing ones0 Difficulties would of course arise if the volume of credit
Yugoslavia. could obtain were to diminish sharply0 It is however unlikely
that the availability of external credit to Yugoslavia would be suddenly
cut off,   It is more probable that as the rate of growth becomes less rapid
and the internal availability of resources increases, the volume of suppliers'
credits wfill cease to grow and will eventually decline0



16.       In the past the Yugoslav Government has show-n itself able and willing
to take strong measures to maintain its balance of payments if necessary,   The
Government is also well awyare of the importance of maintaining its credit in
wfestern countries; it has recently reached an agreement to extend for four
years the settlement of pre-war Yugoslav dollar bonds and has also made the
first payment on accorat of the Danube-Save-Adriatic rai'lway debt.  It is
reasonable to expect that the Government will continue in the future to give
a high priority to the fulfilment of its external obligations0   In these
circumstances Yugoslavia can be regarded as cred-itworthy for the proposed
loan from the Bank.
Department of Operations
Europe
November 30, 1964



I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Yugoslav Government, through its Investment Bank, has requested
a loan to help finance (a) the electrification of three main railway lines,
(b) the provision of modern signalling and co,mmunication equipment for these
lines, and (c) the modernization and construction of six marshalling yards
The Investment Bank is a Goverrment agency responsible for finanlcing a large
share of imajor investments, and is authorized to contract foreign loans for
this purpose.
2.        This would be the second railway loan from the Bank to Yugoslavia
and the third lo&n in the transport field.  The previous loans made in 1963
are: N-o. 344-YU of US;"35 million equivalent for the Central and Adriatic High-
ways and NTo. 361-YU of US$35 inillion equivelent for the Sarajevo-Ploce Railway
Line.  This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which vis-
ited Yugoslavia in June 1964 and on documents prepared by various government
agencies.
II. BACIKGROUND
A. General
3.        Yugoslavia, -ith an area of 257,000 sq. km, is about as large as
the United Kingdom or the Federal Republic of Germany. Its population of
about 19 million is, however, only one-third of these countries. Population
growth has been slowing down and is now about 1.3 percent annually.
4.        Yug.oslavi2's national income was about Dinars 4, 200 billion in 1963
(US$?5.7 billion equivalent), with 2 - er capita income of nearly US,300 equiv-
alent. The real growth rate since 1954 has averaged a high 8 percent
annually. TJith the progress of industrialization, the proportion of population
in agriculture has dropped from the prewar three-quarters to less than one-
half. The transport sector has accounted for about 6 percent of Yugoslavia s
national product in recent years.
5.        Yugoslavia is a Federation of six Republics and can be divided rougl-
ly into three rmain geographic regions: (p) the northeast, the granary of Yugc-.
slavia, (b) a narrowT coastal strip along the Adriatic Sea, and (c) the re-
maining two-thirds of thie country which are mountainous.  Communication between
these areas is difficult even today.
B. Transport in Yugoslavria
6.        Yugoslavia's main transportation system consists of railways (see
Nap), and to a lesser extent, of highways.  Freight traffic on the inland
waterwa-.rs is of some significance, though most of it is international transit
traffic.  Air transport is limited.
7.        The country's main routes of communications have been conditioned
by its topography; they have follow;ed the easy paths and have avoided the
mountain barriers along the coast and in the south. As a result, the main
routes run northwest to southeast along the Sava-Danube Valley. Thev serve
the rich agricultural areas in these valleys and in the north.  They also



- 2 -
provide easy access to Hungary and the Balken countries east of Y'ugoslavia
and some comnections to Austria, ltaly, and Greece. But the mountain barrier
blocks access to the coast, except at a few gaps.
8.        This serious geographical nandicap was aggravated by the different
historical development of the western and northern part under Austro-Hungaripn
rule, and of the southeastern part under Ottoman-Turkish rule.  The transport
system of the former Austro-Hungarian area, i.e., Slovenia, Kroatia and Voj-
vodina was developed to Western European standards, but directed toward Vieina
and Budaoestt an-d oriented towards political and;military needs. Bosnia and
Hercegovina wsere opened up by a system of narrow-gauge (2-1/2') railwjays and
a few roads.  In the south, development of the transport system in Serbia,
iiacedonia. and liontenegro did not really begin until the establishment of the
Yugoslav State in 1919.
9.        One aim of postwjar transport policy has been to open up these less
developed regions and to provide direct access from the hinterland (around
Sarajevo and Belgrade) to the sea by means of modern railaoys and roads.
Anotlher has been to open Yugoslavia to Wlest European motor traffic by means
of the modern Central Highway from Italy and Austria to Greece via Belgrade
and another highway along the Adriatic coast from Rije'ka to Bar and then
inland to Skopje, where it will joinl the Central Highway.
I
10.       The railway is still the backbone of Yugoslavia's transportation
system, accounting for more then 70 percent of freight ton-Ion in 1963 (see
Table 1). Highways account for about 17 percent and shipping for 11 percent
in ton-km. As in most countries, the proportion carried on highways has
increased rapidly - from about 7 percent in 1957 to 17 percent in 1963. As
for passenger traffic, the railwisy accounted for about 63 percent in 1963,
interurban buses for about 23 percent, and passenger cars for 10 percent
(see Table 2). But here, too, the proportion carried on highlways has grown
sharply in recent years - from about 17 percent in 1957 to 33 percent by
1963.  As for the future, it can be expected that the railway will continue
to be the largest carrier, especially for freight; but while the absolLte
amount of railway traffic will grow, its relative'share of traffic will
continue to decline. This is borne out by the traffic forecast made by the
Government in conrnection TwJith the preparation of the nef 12964-1970 Investment
Plan: the Government expects railway traffic to increase by slightly less
than 6 percent annually during this period, compared to 16 percent for
highway traffic.
ll.       Yugoslavia has invested heavily in transportation and connunica-
tions in recent years. This sector accounted for about 20 percent of gross
capital expenditures in the eight-year period from 1956 to 1963, compared
to less then 15 percent in the preceding seven years. These amountsare not
unreasonable for a country like Yugoslavia. While total investments for
transport have been increasing rapidly during most of the period (see Table 3),



-3-
the proportion spent for railway.s has declined from more than one-half in
the 1954-56 neriod to about one-quarter in 1963; the proportion spent on
shipping has declined slightly.  However, the percentage spent for highway
transport (including vehicles) has doubled from alout 22 to more than 50 per-
cent durin- this period.
12.       Yugoslavia is currently preparing a new Investmenlt Plan for 1964-
1970. The plan in the transport sector is not yet final, but no major changes
in the tentative plan, examined by the mission, are anticipated.  Under the
tentative plan, public investments in transport during the seven-year period
will be about Dinars 1,870 billion; on an average annual basis this is about
70 percent abolre the 1963 level. However, the recent trend away from railways
toward highways would be reversed; annual investments in the railways wuld be
nearly tripled over the 1963 level, while investments in highway transport
wqould increase only about 10 percent. As a result, the proportion of total
transport investments going to the railways would increase from a 1963 low
of 25 percent to mrore than lh0 percent.  The plan thus recognizes the irmportalit
contributions of the railway to the economic deielopment of Yugoslavia and
reflects both the urgent need to modernize the railways and the fact that the
basic national highway network is being completed.
C. Transport Coordination
13.       Since the Banlc is financing both railways and highways in Yugoslavia
the appraisal Mission p4id special attention to the problems of transport
coordination. The need for such coordination is relatively new in Yugoslavia
since racdern highways are of recent origin and since some areas of the country
have only limited railway service. The main problem exists on the Central
Highway iThich for most of its length runs parallel to a railway.
14.       The general policy of the Government is to make each form of trans-
port co:mmuercially viable and comp etitive writh the  other on fair terms.  The
implementation of this policy is impeded by two major weaknesses. First,
railway rates are based on the traditionol system of classification related
to the value of commodity but unrelated to the particular costs of carrying
the particular commodity.  As a result, over-simplified criteria as to which
t-ypes of traffic are best suited to railways and roads tend to be used in con-
sidering future investment.  These over-simplified criteria, which may be
justifiable when there are few trucks and a general overloading of the trans-
port system, will become more and more unreliable in the future.
15.       Secondly, it would aDpear that both railways and highways are sub-
sidized.  Road operators pay little directly toward the cost of the roads, but
have been makinlg high profits.  On the other hand, the interest paid by the
railway on its capitel involves. a subsidy rate. It is difficult to say which
has benefited most; officials of the Secretariat for Transport and Communica-
tions believe that highways have received relatively more subsidies.



- 4 -
1.6.      The Federel Government is, however, in a particularly good
nosition to assure adequate coordination in the future and avoid the
dilermas confronting many other countries in the area.   Firstly, it
is fully aware of the problem and seems to have adequate authority.
Secondly, the Secretariat for Transport is ably staffed and well
organized, not by mode of transport, but by function, such as invest-
ment, tariffs, etc. Thirdly, the relatively large scale of the
trucking enterprises hlelps to avoid some of the problems of excess
competition which arise when one-truck entrepreneurs charge rates
below their real costs.   Fourthly, a relatively large proportion of
railway freight is of the bulk type and therefore less subject to
highway competition. Finally, the Government has already initiated
some important steps, such as relating railway rates more closely to
transport costs, and increasing charges on the users of highways so
that they w,ill in time pay for highway costs.  It is the Government's
intention to continue to follow the problem closely to achieve the
most econcmic distribution of traffic among the various modes of
transport.
III. THE RAILWAY SYSTEM
A. Organization, Management and Staff
17.       The organization of the Yugoslav Railways is based on the
Yugoslav concept in which the workers participate in the management.
The organization has changed several times in recent years and is
currently undergoing further changes in accordance with the Law on
Organization of the Yu-oslav Railways of Miarch 27, 1963.  The Orga-
nization is shown on the attached chart.
18.        The Railways are subdivided at present into 22 regional
Railway Transport Enterprises and 39 auxiliary enterprises. However,
the number of Transport Enterprises, which was 29 early in 1963, will
be consolidated further to about 12-15.   The number and scope of the
auxiliary enterprises is adapted from time to time to the local needs
of the Railways and will be consolidated also.
19.       T'he Railway Transport Enterprises operate the fixed assets
in their area, and the motive power and rolling stock allocated to them.
Their revonues arise from comercial traffic, services rendered to
other Railway Transport Enterprises, and from rents, leases, etc.
In general, the Enterprises have to finance replacements, betterments
and additions from their own funds.
20.       Each of the Railway Transport Enterprises is managed by a
Workerst Council, a Management Board and a Director.   The Workers'
Council consists of 40 to 70 elected representatives of the workers,
and meets every two months. The Management Board consists of 10
representatives of the Workers' Council and the Director, who cannot



be the Chairman. The Director is appointed by the Executive Council
of the Republic on the basis of merit. He is responsible for the
railway operation to the Director of the Community of Railway Enter-
prises (see para 22).
21.       The auxiliary enterprises are responsible for maintenance
and repair of tracks, for repair of locomotives and rolling stock,
for design and supervision of new. construction, etc. They receive
payments for their services to the Transport Enterprises. There are
also a few enterprises which receive outside earnings, such as the
Railway Institute which serves as an engineering consultant for
enterprises other than the Railways, and some repair shops which carry
out orders for enterprises outside the Railways.
22.       The Railway Enterprises with two exceptions are organized
into four Commalnities of Railway Enterprises for areas roughly cor-
responding to the four major Republics, Serbia, Kroatia, Slovenia
and Bosnia-Hercegovina.  The Railway Enterprises in Skopje and Tito-
grad are represented directly on the Community of Yugoslav Railways
(see para 2b) because after the consolidation, only one Enterprise
each remained in the areas of ilacedonia.and lNontenegro. The Com-
munities of Railway Enterprises supervise and coordinate operations
in their region, distribute the freight car stock among the Enter-
prises for day-to-day operation, act as a link with Republican
authorities, and are responsible for projects including more than
one Enterprise.
23.       Each Community of Railway Enterprises is managed by a Man-
agement Board and a Director. The Managemrent Board conaists of 30--h0
representatives of the Railway Enterprises in the area. The Director
who i9 a member but not Chairman of the Board is appointed for no more
than two sears by the Execut:ive Council of the Republic on the recommen-
dation of the Management Board and on the basis of merit; he may be re-
appointed but cannot serve more than two terms.
24.       All Railway Enterprises together and the four Communities of
Railway Enterprises form the Community of Yugoslav Railways. It has
the same supervising and coordinating functions for Yugoslavia as a
whole, as the four Communities of Railway Enterprises have within their
region. In addition, it is responsible for general policy matters such
as rates and tariffs, technical standards, over-all planning, inter-
national traffic and timetables, and construction of new lines affecting
more than one Republic. Some matters of national importance are sub-
ject to Government approval, but the Government does not interfere in
day-to-day operations.
25.       Ihe Community of Yugoslav Railways is managed by a Railway
Assembly, the Management Board and the General Director. The Railway
Assetnbly consists of 60 representatives of the Railway Enterprises and
the Communities. It meets at least twice a year. The Management
Board consists of 15 members, of which 14 are elected by the Assembly



- 6 -
from among its members. The General Director is a member, but not
chairman, of the Assembly and the Board. He has the right to veto
decisions of the Assembly and the Board, but his veto is subject to
review by the Federal Executive Council.   The present General Direc-
tor was formerly Governor of the Yugoslav National Bank.
26.       The Railways' staff is competent. The Management is capable
and the handling of traffic, operations and technical matters is good.
27.       The number or staff has fluctuated during the last ten years,
because some maintenance and workshop enterprises at one time separated
themselves from the Railways, but some of these recently merged again.
The performance of the staff, in terms of traffic-units and gross ton-
kilometers per employee, and the number of employees per kilometer of
line has remained relatively constant in recent years (see Table 4).
The fi;ures compare reasonably well with railways in other European
countries which have similar traffic and operating conditions. There
is, however, room for improvements in the course of the Railwayst
modernization program.
B. The Network
28.       The railway system in Yugoslavia consists of the originally
Serbian system and the parts taken over :trom the Austrian, Hungarian
and later from the Italian Railways.  Each of these left its own type
of equipment and particular technical features.
29.       By the end of 1963, the Yugoslav Railways operated 9,276
route-km of standard-gauge lines and 2,580 km of narrow-gauge mainly
2'6" lines. Of the standard-gauge lines, 724 route-km were double
track and 310 route-km were electrified (see map and Table 5).
30.       About 2,500 route-km of standard-gauge and 500 km of nar-
row-gauge were constructed after World War I in order to open up the
less dereloped oarts of the country.   However, the modernization of
station yards and signalling installations, and the procurement of
motipre ower and rolling stock did not keep pace with the construction
of new lines. This fact limits seriously the capacity of the system.
31.       One of the bottlenecks of the Yugoslav Railways is the nar-
row-gauge line from Sarajevo to Ploce (see map). This line is being
converted into standard-gauge and will be electrified; part of the cost
is financed from Loan No. 361-YU. Progress is on schedule and com-
pletion is expected by the end of 1966.
C. Physical Properties
32.       Track, struietures and buildings are well maintained.  About
30 percent of the standard-gauge tracks are laid with rails heavier
than 45 kg per m. The main line Jesenice-Ljubljana-Belgrade-Skopje
is being relaid with 49 kg rails; this is almost completed. Ballast



- 7 -
is good. Prestressed concrete ties have recently been used. Sixty
percent of the main lines are suitable for 20 tons maximum axle load;
the remainder, permits only 17 tons.
33.       Most of the station yards   in the system have  not
been modernized for 40 years. Only the marshalling yard at Vinkovci
has a hump and satisfactory installations; all others are flat yards
with inefficient push-off shunting.
34.       The signalling system used on most of the lines and stations
is also as it was 40 years ago. It consists mainly of mechanical inter-
locking installations.  On many stations, even on mainlines, points are
hand-operated locally. Electric line block exists only on double-
track lines.  On the other hand, a very modern all-relay signal tower
was comnleted recently at Ljubljana.   Automatic line block with color
li-ht si 'nals was -ecently com leted on two single-track sections of
the otherwise double-track line from Zagreb to Belgrade and on one
section of the single-track line from Belgrade via Vrpolje to Sara-
jero. The deficiencies of the signalling system caused several acci-
dents in recent years, two of which were serious, causing many deaths.
The composition of the motive power and rolling stock is
summarized in the following table:
Average number of units in 1963
Standard Gauge         Narrow Gauge
Locomotives, Steam                    1,596                506
Diesel                    154                  -
Electric                   41
Railcar sets,Diesel                     193                  5
Electric                    4                  -
Passenger cars                        5,226                991
Freight cars                         63,796              8,741
Details are shown in Table 6.
35.       The motive power and rolling stock is generally well main-
tained but a substantial portion is far beyond its useful economic
life of 35 years. The percentage of steam locomotives and rolling
stock in excess of 35 years is shown below:
Standard Gauge          Narrow Gauge
Steam Locomotives                   65%                   77%
Passenger cars                     68%                    86%
Freight cars                        60%                   96%
372 standard gauge steam locomotives or 23 percent of the total were
built before 1916. The problem is aggravated by the fact that



the stock consists of manyj different types, wlhich ma6kes maintenance
and repair expensive; for examiple, there are 46 types of standard-
gauge steam locomotives still in operation. Diesel locomotives are
not older than 15 years.
36.       The Railways have already started th6 urgent modernization
of their  motive power by purchasing 98 heavy,'mainline diesel locO-
motives from the USA through the U.S. AID Program, and 36 medium
size dieseL locomotivres and 80 diesel shunters built by Yugoslav
manufacturers under licenses from a French and an Austrian firm.
They purchased also about 160 sets of light two-axle railcars (so
called railbuses) manufactured in Yugoslavia under a license from a
German firm, and 26 heavy electric locomotives from Italy.
37.       The capacity of the passenger car stock is generally ade-
quate, but that of freight cars is insufficient. Procurement of ad-
ditional rolling stock mainly for replacement is planned in the next
few years.
38.       Miaintenance and repair facilities for' diesel locomotives and
railcars and for electric locomotives are adequate, but most of the
facilities of the railway enterprises for maintenance and medium repairs
are not modern and some are obsolete. The number of railway enterprises
for locomotive and car repairs appears more than necessary and these are
activities on which cost savings could be made by reorganizing these
enterprises and reducing their number. In general, heavy repairs and
general overhaul of steam locomotives and rolling stock are carried out
on a contract basis by outside enterprises.
D. Traffic
39.       The Railways' freight traffic (in ton-Ikn) nearly doubled in
the last ten years (see Table 1). It remained relatively stable between
1960 and 1962, largely due to a slow-down in economic activity generally
and especia'.ly to poor agricultural crops which in turn adversely affected
the nrocessing industries. However, these appear to have been temporary
factors and the indications since mid-1962 are that the earlier growth
is now continuing; in 1963, traf'ic increased 15 percent above the 1962
level. The bullc of the railway traffic consists of minerals and heavy
materials (see Table 7). Coal accounts f'or nearly 30 percent of total
traffic, and building materials, ore and lumber for an additional 30
percent.
40.       Passenger traffic (in passenger-km) increased by about 75 per-
cent in the last ten years. As in the case of freight traffic, growth
ceased temporarily in 1960-1962; but in 1963, it was about 7 percent
above the 1962 level. Passenger traffic accounts for about a quarter of
the Railways' transport revenues.



-9-
E. Operations
41.       The Railways are well operated in general.   However, they
have difficulty, particularly during peak traffic in meeting the
demands of the considerably increasing traffic, because of the
following deficiencies in the installations and equipment:
(i) The lack of motive power in general and the obso-
lescence of most of the steam locomotives. One
special factor hampering the efficiency of steam
traction in Yugoslavia is the poor quality of the
domestic lignite and the absence of hard coal, so
that several types of lignite have to be mixed with
imported hard coal on the locomotive tender in
order to maintain sufficient steam generation.
(ii) Limitations of line capacities in terms of gross
tons per train and number of trains per day from
the still predominant steam traction and from
outmoded mechanical signalling and interlocking
installations.
(iii) The obsolescence and insufficient capacity of the
marshalling yards at the major traffic centers and
junctions, such as Belgrade, Zagreb and Ljubljana,
causing repeated classifications and delay in the
turn-around of freight cars.
(iv) The insufficient capacity of the narrow-gauge lines.
42.       In spite of these conditions the Railways were able to handle
traffic increases since 1950 of 25% for passengers and of 70% for
freight (see Table 5).
43.       The  Railwayst operating record is good and compares favor-
ably with that of other railways in Europe.   It has remained at about
the same level since 1958 (see Table 4), which is satisfactory, con-
sidering the condition of the facilities.
44.       The average availability of locomotives and rolling stock in
1963 is satisfactory, especially considering their old age:
Average Availability 1963 (in percent)
Standard-Gauge    Narrow-Gauge
Locomotives, Steam             76                73
Diesel           92                  -
Electric         85                  -
Diesel Railcars                74                80
Passenger Cars                90                 90
1reight Cars                  95                 95



- 10 -
15.       The utilization of diesel and electric lo/omotives in 1963
was IbOB km and 41!7 km resoectively per engine day/available, which is
hi-h. The utili7ation of steam locomotives was 200 km per engine day
available; it has declined slightly since 1960 because of the shift
to diesel and electric traction which is the usual experience of rail-
ways >eing dieselized and/or electrified.   In 1963, about 29 percent
of the rross ton-km on standard- auge lines was hauled by diesel
tracti:)n and a-out 6 percent by electric traction.   The Railways have
substituted rail buses for several passenger steam trains on standard-
gauge branch lines with good economic results and are going to expand
this. On the narrow-gauge lines, only steam; locomotives are operated.
besides a few prewar diesel railcar sets on the Sarajevo-Ploce line.
46.       Utilization and turn-around time of the freight cars are also
satisfactory, considering the present conditions of lines and marshal-
ling yards.
47.        The maximum speed on standard-gauge lines is 120 Ian per hour;
on narrow-gauge lines it is only 40 km. The fastest average speeds,
including stops, are 77 Ion per hour on the standard-gauge Belgrade-
Ljubljana section, and 27 km on the narrow-gauge Sarajevo-Ploce section.,
which is satisfactory under the present operating conditions.    The
average speed of freight trains is 17 Im per hour on the standard-gauge
system and 13 kn per hour on narrow-gauge system. M4aximum and average
speeds on the standard-gauge lines can and will be substantially
increased by execution of the Railway Investment Plan (see paragraphs 74
to 81 below). -
F.  Finances and Earnings
48.       In this report, the subject of finances and earnings concerns
only the financial e-,nerience of the 22 transport enterprises, to the
exclusion of the 39 auxiliary enterprises. This avoids laborious analyt-
ical procedures the value of which would be meager. While the auxiliary
enterorises were established nrimarily to serve the transport enter-
prises, wherever capacity pernits, c.g. quarry, locomotive and car
factories, and orinting, they also serve industry generally.   In ad-
dition to the problem of separation of railway and non-railway finances,
inclusion of the 39 auxiliary enterprises would involve elimination of
double accounting between the 39 auxiliary enterprises as well as
between these 39 and the 22 transport enterprises. The result of em-
ploying only the data of the 22 transport enterprises is that the con-
clusions are somewhat conservative inasmuch as the profits of the
auxiliary enterprises (about Din 2.3 billion in 1963) are not included,
The proportion of this profit attributable to purely railway operations
cannot be determined fromi available data.  However, a fair estimate
would be about Din 2.0 billion.
1. Budgets, Accounting and Auditing
h9.       Each railway enterprise and the related Community of Railway
Enterprises jointly prepare in advance an annual working plan which



consists of an estimeate of the voliume of traffic demand and the finan-
cial means necessary to meet it in terms of operating and capital budget
require;ients. These individual draft budgets are prepared within the
framework of (a) the Government's over-all economic plan, (b) the
expected volume of demand on a global basis and (c) the general plan of
inter-republic and foreign traffic and of car supply laid down by the
Commnunity of Yugoslav Railways in Belgrade.  The budget is coordinated,
after discussion by the Management Board of the Community of Yugoslav
Railways and after further joint discussion by the Board writh the
Transport Committee of the Federal Assembly.  The Railway's total budget
must be approved by the Community of Yugoslav Railways and the Federal
Secretariat, but the approval of the Federal Assembly is not required.
50.       The Federal Government prescribes a uniform system of account-
ing for all commercial enterorises in Yugoslavia.  Of the ten classes
of accounts so orescribed, eight are applicable to the Railwiays and
correspond generally to prooerty, current asset, current liability, in-
ventory, expenses, revenues, surplus and business-fund accounts.
Special uniform subdivisions to these accounts are required by the
Community of Yugoslav Railways in the light of the special needs of
the railwaYs.
51.       Property was first recorded at original cost, and was re-
valued in 1954, in 1957 and in 1962, in accordance with government
requirements applicable to all com,mercial enterprises.  The effect of
the latest revaluaticn was to increase the value of fixed assets after
depreciation by about 18 percent on average. Each enterprise has its
own stores and related accounts. Actual prices are recorded. With-
drawals are based on average prices. Inventory is generally taken
annually.  Expenses include ordinary maintenance on a cash basis and
investment maintenance, which is equivalent to major rehabilitation or
renewals, on an accrual or annual-estimate basis according to a time
schedule fixed in advance.
52.       Accounting procedures customary in the West are not always
followed in Yugoslavia. The principal deviations are the effect of:
(a) the decentralized organization and the resulting multiplicity of
transport and auxiliary railway enterprises; (b) the initial pooling
of income and later distribution among the enterprises; and (c) the
allocation of net income to supplemental wages and salaries, welfare
projects and the enterprises' business funds.
53.       The many transactions between the 22 Railway Transport
aterorises operating trajins  n 1963 result in some double accounting
in the income accounts, inasmuch as in some instances the revenues
of one enterprise are the expenses of another. Additionally, trans-
actions '-etween the 22 transioort enterprises and the 39 auxiliary enter-
prises reduce co~noosite net revenues of the former, since in many cases
rolling stock rer)air, track maintenance and other expenses would be
lower by the amount oi profit gained by these auxiliary enterprises
which in 1963 employed almost 14,000 people and earned revenues of
Dinars 46.7 billion (U3$66.7 million equivalent).



_ 12 -
54.       The receiots of the 22 transport enterprises initially are
common to all 22 enterprises. A division of the Community of Yugo-
slav Railwiays, Control of Receiots, periodically assigns all revenues
directly to each enterprise on the basis of a formula designed to
permit each to cover its terminal costs and to distribute the remainder
on the basis of (i) work performed; and (ii) train-operating conditions
such as narrow-gauge and light traffic density equated for each enter-
prise in accordance with agreed factors calculated to afford equal
opportunity to achieve reasonable financial results.   The assignment
of total receipts has no effect on net income when considering only
the aggregate results of all enterprises.
55.       Wages and salaries include basic monthly wages, as well as
periodic supplemental wages which depend on the financial results of
operations, paid within 15 to 90 days after the related payroll period.
Wages and salaries, as recorded in expenses, include these supplemental
payments, basic social insurance which is generally 22 percent of net
salary, income taxes, 15 percent, contribution to a fund for housing
construction, 4 percent, reduced vacation fares, 1.5 percent, and con-
tribution to a fund for the reconstruction of the City of Skopje,
1 percent.
56.       Auditing is performed at least once a year, by the Service
of Social Accounting, a department of the National Bank, which receives
quarterly reports from all economic enterprises in Yugoslavia, includ-
ing each railway enterprise.  It issues a certificate that the accounts
are properly kept.
2. Rates and Fares
57.       The rate policy of the Railways stems from the Constitution
of 1963 which states generally that every economic enterprise, after
renewing the "value o' resources expended in work, and after allocating
a part of the created value of the product for equalization of working
cDnditions and acquisition of income, shall apportion the income of the
working organizatlon into a fund to expand the material basis of work
and a fund to satisfy the personal and common needs of the working
people".
58.       Rates and fares up to the present time have been established
by the Government on uniform bases for all enterprises. The establish-
ment of rates by the Government may be changed in accordance with a
proposed law now before the Federal Assembly which would give the Com-
munity of Yugoslav Railways general freedom in rate making.   Rates are
now in a few instances like some other prices, under the supervision
of the Office of Price Control.  If the aforesaid legislation is
enacted all rates will be subject to the control of O.P.C. which would
then have the power to suspend railway-initiated rate increases, pro-
vided an over-all railway deficit would not result, This suspension
would on complaint of the Railways be subject to review by the Federal
Assembly.



- 13 -
Freight Rates
59.       Freight rates consist of: (i) carload class rates related to
ten classes; and (ii) less-than-carload rates. Specific carload rates
which are lower than the otherwise applicable class rates apply to such
commodities as lignite, fertilizer, bauxite ore, coal, firewood, fruits,
vegetables and seafoods. About 95 percent of"freight traffic moves at
carload rates. Rates have borne a closer relationship to average costs
since 1961 when the spread between the lowest and highest class was
reduced to 1 to 2.7. Rates, however, should be brought into even
closer relation to the specific costs of transporting individual com-
modities or groun)s o  collmodities. The railways propose to do this
gradually; and as a first step to reduce the higher rates on manu-
factured and rniscellaneous articles, which the trucks are able to
take away from the railways, and to compensate by increasing the rates
on low-rated, bulk high-density commodities.
60.       Carload rates vary, also, with the quantity shipped.    The
10-ton rate is basic; the 15-ton rates per unit are 10 percent lower,
and the 5-ton rates are higher by from 5 to 501percent depending on
the class and distance. This aspect of-the tariff should be brought
into line with costs as a starting point and the differential, when
properly adjusted, should be such as to promote the full utilization
of freight-car space.
61.       The Railways receive from the Government 2 Dinars per net
ton-kilometer for losses incurred from the transport of lignite, for
which a special low rate is charged.
Passenger Fares
62.       A two-fare system, first and second class, is in effect witl
a relationship of 1.5 to 1. For journeys up to 100 kilometers, they
increase by Dinars 5.2 per km; from 101 to 500 lkns, they increase less
rapidly at rates gradually declining from 5.2;to 4.0 Dinars per kilo-
meter; and they become linear at 4.0 Dinars per kilometer for distances
over 500 kilometers. An addlitional charge of Dinars 300 is made for
transnortation on fast trpins; and Dinars 600, on express trains.
63.       Substantially reduced fares are in effect for transportation of
children, the blind, invalids, students, groups of at least 5 adults,
excursions, season tickets and the like, with reductions ranging from
10 to as high as 92 percent. The federal budget provides for payments
to the Railways in these cases where the fares are below a compensatory
level, and in 1963 this amounted to about Dinars 18 billion (US$24 million).
64.       Including Government allowances, the freight rates appear
somewhat high but this is due in part to the relatively short average
length of haul, about 250 lms; and the passenger fares are on the low
side. Howiever, the Government and the Railways are re-examining the
rate and fare structures, with the object of bringing them more in line
with costs.



3, Earninags
65.       Tne earnings position of the transport entcrprises as a system
is shoxm in detail in Table 8 and summ,arized below, for the years 1959 to
1963 inclusive:
( Billions of Dinars )
Operating j Operating 2/ Net Operat-ing
Year     Revenues     ExEenses         Revenues        Net Income 3/
1959         144         138              6                20OS
1960         191         160             31                26
1961         195         170             25                17
1962         194         173             21                11
1963         225         198             26                12
Note 1:  Operating revenues are net of inter-enterprise items, except
for the years 1959 and 1960 for which necessary data were not
available;
Note 2:  Operating Expenses include depreciation;
Note 3:  Net Income is Net Operating Revenue less interest and
deductions from income plus miscellaenous revenue;
Note 4: Net Income 1959 includes Dinars 17 billion extraordinary revenues.
66.       For the years 1959 and 1960, the above data are for the six
transport enterprises comprising the railways in those years. In 1961
and 1962 thlere were 29 transport enterprises and in 1962, their number
was reduced to 22. The two groups of years 1959/60 and 1961/63 are not
strictly comparable because inter-enterprise items have been eliminated
only in the latter years, for which selected ratios are shown below:
1961     1962     1963
Operating  ra-tios                87       89       88
Times interest earned             30       19       20
Return on net fixed assets        5.2       3.7      4.4
67.       The operating ratios are adversely affecued by the necessary exclu-
sion of the profits made by the 39 auxiliary railway enterpr.ses whose rail-
way revenues are incl]uded in the expenses of the transport enterprises (see
para 53).  In addition, expenses include not only basic wages, but also Slb-
sequent additional wage payments which might in western countries be considered
a distribution of profits.  The operating ratios would otherwise be material-
ly better.



- 15 -
68.       Reburn on net fixed assets which imp:oved in 1963 is also
affected by these special circumstances and in addition is materially
affected by the revaluation of fixed assets in 1954, 1957 and 1962.
Were net fixed assets representative of the actual flow of capital into
fixed assets less depreciation, the rates of return would be substan-
tially higher.
4. Depreciation
69.       Straight line depreciation is related to reasonably estimated
service li7es of depreciable property.   Non-depreciable property includes
land, and permanent way substructures which are earthworks, formation,
culverts and everything below the ballast including supporting walls.
From January 1, 1964., depreciation has been assessed on track super-
structure, including ballast, ties, track and track fittings on a func-
tional basis as an alternative method so that about 67 percent of
resultin- deoreciation charges are now based on density of traffic.
The use of this alternative increases depreciation expenses and
reduces investment maintenance or renewals expense. In addition, func-
tional depreciation rates have also been introduced on rolling stock
where hig>h use factors warrant higher rates than the rates prescribed
for ordinary use. While the assets of the railways have been revalued
several times, the depreciation base remains at original cost. In 1963,
depreciation expense was 13 percent Or total operating expense and 11.6
percent of operating revenues. It is expected to rise sharply in 1964
to more than 25 percent of total operating expenses and to 21.5 percent
of gross revenues. The railways' depreciation allowances are adequate.
Deductions from Income
70.       The railways like all economic enterprises pay the Government
for the use of its fixed assets.  For industry generally, a six percent
annual charge on net fixed assets is made.   The railways, however, like
many other public enterprises have been granted a concession whereby
they pay 2 percent on railway property excluding land, permanent way and
road structures such as tunnels. The normal 6 percent is paid on non-
operating property such as social housing.
71.       Payments to the social investment fund are amounts contributed
to the republics and cities amounting to 30 percent of that part of net
profit which is allocated to special funds.
72.       A modernization fund was established by the Government in 1963.
All railway enterprises contribute 5 percent of total income after deduct-
ing those e;menses which are. not salaries or wages.  The fund, which is
not formally esta'lished as a fund but kept in a special bank account,
is used "or investments on the basis of jointly determined allocations
to individual enterprises. A small interest charge is assessed against
amounts wTithdrawn by an enterprise in excess of its contributions.



- 16 -
6. Finances
73.       Balance sheet data as of December 31, 1962 and 1963 are
shown as a part of Table 9.
(i) Current Assets and Liabilities. The ratios of current assets to
current liabilities were 1.5 to 1 in each year. The liquid ratios in
1962 and 1963 were 1.A and 1.3 to 1, respectively. Certain double ac-
counting between enterrrises has not been eliminated. The elimination
of duplicate amounts from each total would have somewhat improved the
ratios. These ratios are satisfactory.
(ii)  Fixed Assets. Revaluation of assets is referred to above under the
ge neral heading of accounting. The accumulated depreciation shown on
the balance sheet applies only to operating fixed assets. Social
standard assets, such as housing, are shown as net of depreciati-on.
(iii) Debt. Long-term debt has been incurred to provide working capi-
tal, operating fixed assets and social standard property. About one-
half the relatively little outstanding debt on December 31, 1963 has
been borrowed from the Government's General Fund for Investments
(Dinars 25.6 billion), with maturities ranging from 5 to 25 years and
interest from 1 to 7 percent; about Dinars 5.7 billion from commercial
banks averaging a term of about 10 years, with interest ranging from
1 to 7 percent; and the balance, Dinars 21.2 billion from a miscellany
of sources principally for housing, for terms ranging from 10 to 30
years at interest ranging from 1 to 3 percent. The debt-equity ratios
were favorable in 1962 and 1963, 8/92 and 7/93, respectively. Debt
service coverage has been good. The finances of the Railways are gen-
erally satisfactory.
0. The 1964-1970 Railway Investmrent Plan
74.       The seven-year Investment Plan 1964-1970 of the Yugoslav
Railways is oart of the General Social Plan of the Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia for the same period. This plan was still under
consideration by the Federal Executive Council and not yet finally
approved at the time of the appraisal mission. This report assumes
that no major changes wlill be mnade in the Railway Investments Plan.
75.       The Plan provides for canital investments in the railways
of Dinars 705.7 billion (US$941 million equivalent) and of Dinars
38.7 billion (US$52 million equivalent) for so-called social standard,
i.e., staff housing, welfare institutions, recreation facilities, etc.
See Table 10.
76.       The Plan aims at increasing the Railway's carrying capacity
and at modernizing operations and equipment in order to meet demands
of the increasing traffic. -Main items of the Plan are:



- 17 -
(i) electrification of 1,578 route-km of three mainlines
(see map);
(ii) new signalling installations on 1,509 route-km of three
mainlines (see map);
(iii) construction of four new marshalling yards and modern-
ization of two existing marshalling yards, including
connecting lines and facilities for locomotive main-
tenance and repair;
(iv) renewal of the permanent way, bridges and structures
in the entire system;
(v) purchase of electric and diesel locomotives;
(vi) purchase of railcars, rail buses and passenger cars;
(vli) purchase of freight cars; and
(viii) remodeling of station facilities, construction of
freight yards and sheds, and conversion of narrow-
gauge lines into standard-gauge.
77.       The above first three items of the seven-year Investment Plan are
embodied in the Reconstruction and iModernization Program of Mainlines, which
forms the proposed loan project as described in the folloiring chapter. The
Project is scheduled for completion during the first five years 1964-1968 of
the seven-year period for the entire Investment Plan, which extends until 1970.
78.       With respect to the rest of the Program the Railways intend to fi-
nance (a) purchases of locomotives and of rolling stock as far as possible
from suppliers' credits and (b) the improvement of line and staticn capacities
from loans from interested cities and republics. The remainder will be fi-
nanced from the Railways's own funds.
79.       The RailwJays intend to import the electric locomotives, electric
and diesel railcars. Diesel locornotives and rail buses will be produced by
the domestic industry on licenses from foreign manufacturers. Passenger and
freight cars and other equipment will be manufactured in Yugoslavia. Some
components for locomotives, cars, signalling and switches have to be imported.
80.       Funds for new line construction are generally made available by the
Government and are given as a grant to the Railways, which have to pay in
return a charge to the Government after the lines are taken into operation.
81.       Because of this method of financing, the Railways' Investment Plan
does not inclu(ie the construction of new lines such as:
(i) the Sarajevo-Ploce line, of which part is financed from
the previous Bank loan 361-YU;
(ii) the Belgrade-Bar line, of which two sections of about 50 km
each are in operation and about 3i40 km still have to be con-
structed;
(iii) the Zadar-Knin line, of which 60 km are in operation and 40
km are almost complete.



Iv.. THE PROJECT
A. Description
82.       The Project as indicated auove is the Reconstruction and Moderni-
zation Program o-f M4ainlines 1964-1968, which is shown in detail in Table 11.
83.       The three lines included in the Project are the most important
lines for both domestic and international freight and passenger traffic in
Yugoslovia.  They are: (i) Jesenice (the frontier station to Austria)-
Ljubljana-Za,-reb-Belgrade-Nis-Slcopje-Titov Veles (towards Greece); (ii) Rijeka-
Zagreb; and (iii) Vrpolje-Sarajevo (see Zap).  The extension of the third
line from Sarajevo to Ploce forms the Project financed by Loan 361-YU and is
due to be completed by end of 1966,
84.       The aims of the present Project are to eliminate deficiencies in
the Railw..ays? present carrying capacity and to increase operating efficiency.
The Project consists of (i) installations for electric traction on the above
mainlines, of which the Rijeka-Zargreb line is already electrified up to
Karlovac; (ii) the installation of modern signalling and telecommunication
systems over the lines and of automatic block systems on those sections with
the heaviest traffic loads; and (iii) construction of four new marshalling
yards at Belgrade, Zagreb, Ljubljana and Skopje with humps, car retarders,
modern signalling equipment and facilities for the repair and maintenance of
locomotives and cars; and extension and modernization of the existing yards
at Nis and Doboj. The locomotive maintenance and repair facilities related
to the Doboj yard will be constructed at Sarajevo, from where motive power
for the Vrpolje-Saravejo line will be provided.
85.       The Project is well conceived and includes only items of highest
priority. It is necessary because the Lmilways would not be able to carry
the increased traffic forecast for 1970 (see Tahle 7) unless all limitations
on the three mainlines have been eliminated.
86.       Electrific.ation of the mainlines is the appropriate solution both
for alleviating the lack of motive power and increasing the line capacity.
The lines Jesenice-Ljubljana-Dobova and Karlovac-Zaoreb will be electrified
with 3,000 Volts D.C., because the adjacent lines to Rijeka are equipped with
the sar,le system. All other lines east of Dobova will be electrified with
the more economical system of 25,000 Volts A.C., 50 cycles.
87.       Electrification of the lines is justified, as compared with diese'l
traction in view of:



- 19 -
a) the traffic density, which will reach an'average of 63,000
gross ton-km per kn of line per day in 1970, and
b) powver consumption, which would be about 620,000 kwh per km/year.
88.       These figures substantially exceed the,'breakeven pojits of 30,OCO
gross ton-km and 300,000 kwh above which electric traction according to the
experience of Euronean railways genierally costs less than diesel traction.
The availabilit-, of cheap electric power from nearby hydroe'ectric plants,
higher speed on gradients and quicker acceleration are additional factors
favoring electrification.
89.       The installation of modern signalling, telecommunication and auto-
matic block systems aims at both increasing line capacities and improving
the sarety of' operations. The construction and modernization of main marshal-
ling yards is indispensable for the handling of the increasing freignt traffic.
90.       Work has started already on the marshalling yards and on the elec-
trification between Jesenice and Ljubljana; the other works are expected to
begin within the next months. Completion of the entire Project is scheduled
for the end of 1968.  A schedule of Project wiorks to be completed from 1965
to 1968 is given in Table 12.
B. Estimated Cost of the Project
91.       The estimated costs of the Project as detailed in Table 11 are
summarized below. Expenditures before January 1, 1964 are not included. Ten
percent contingencies are added to the estimated expenditure for each year
from 1965 to 1968.  Customs duties, which are included average 29 percent.
Minimum value of
US$       materials to be
Dinars          million     imported - US$
billion      equivalent     million equivalent
including custom duties   excluding custom dutes
I. Installations for
Electric Traction         39.0           51.9              1L.0
II. Installations for
Signalling and
Telecommunication         35.8           47.8              12.7
III. Construction and
Modernization of
Marshalling Yards         53.0           70.6               6.o
Total allocated           127.8          170.3              32.7
Contingencies              11.0           14.7               3.3
Grand Total               138.8          185.0              36.0



- 20 -
92,       The estiniates appear reliable, because the quantities involved
are based on final plans prepared from detailed surveys and unit prices used
are based on the experience from recent bids.
93.       The minimum value of materials to be imported excluding custom
duties is about 20 percent of the total cost of the Project and includes only
materials not manufactured in Yugoslavia, such as special steel castings,
equipment for remote control of substations, relays and other components
for signalling installation, car retarders in marshalling yards, etc. which
would have to be imported in any case. The actual foreign exchange cost
could be higher if foreign firms were successful in obtaining orders of other
materials and equipment which can be produced in Yugoslavia (see para 99 to
100).
94.       The proposed loan of US$70 million would finance about 38 percent
of the total cost of the Project.
C. Administration and Execution
95e       The co;nmunities of Railway Enterprises at Belgrade, Zagreb, Ljubljana
and Sarajevo and the Railway Transport Enterprise Skopje are acting as
"Investor", i.e. they are responsible for the execution of the Project. The
organization and staff of the "Investors" are competent from both the adminis-
trative and technical point of view.
96.       Final plans and specifications are about 80 percent complete for
trackage, earthwork and structures of thie marshalling yards. Principal
plans and specifications for electric traction and signalling installations
for the sections on which work has to be started first are sufficiently
advanced to call tenders.
97.       Work on lines connecting with the Belgrade marshalling yard
started in 1951 but has been interrupted because of the lack of funds. One
major bridge across the Sava River and about 10 km of embankments of lines
have been completed. Works restarted in 1963 are progressing satisfactorily.
Work on the other marshalling yards and the electrification from Jesenice to
Ljubljana has also started. Contracts were awarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding among domestic contractors.
98.       All electrification and signalling equipment will be purchasedafter
international competitive bidding among an adequate number of qualified
manufacturers. Most of the work of installation will also be put to inter-
national tender. Bids wqill be evaluated with the cost including customs
duties on equipment and materials. This is the same pf6cedure-which has been
followed in previous loans to Yugoslavia.. Judging from the experience of the
bidding for the Sarajovo-Ploce project it appears likely that the contracts
for equipment and installation will be won by'   foreign manufacturer and' a
Yugoslav-firm vorking in cooperation.   Such cooperation enables the bidders
to reduce the import component of the bid and hence the:customs duty. For
example, in the signalling equipment contract for the Sarajevo-Ploce line the
duty payable on the lowkist bid was 16 percent of the equipment cost ox duty



- 21 -
whereas on the second lowest bid it was 31 percent. Cooperation of this
kind also has the practical advantage of enabling the Yugoslav firm to
benefit from the technical knowledge of the foreign firm; it becomes fa-
miliar with the equipment and is thus better able to handle maintenance
and repair.
99.       Most of the remaining parts of the project are not suitable for
international competitive bidding either because the quantities are too
small or because of interference with train operations. All structures
and track work, and most of the earthworks, for the marshalling yards fall
into this category. They will be carried out by local contractors or by
the railways' owFn forces. Onl,y the earthworks at the Belgrade marshalling
yard, where a large area has to be filled hydraulically with sand from the
Sava River, would be likely to interest a foreign contractor or a joint
venture of foreign and domestic con-tractors and the Railways have agreed
to put this work to international tender.  Some special equipment for mar-
shalling yards, such as car retarders and control equipment-,would also be
purchased after international competitive bidding.
100.      The estimated cost of works that could be subject to international
competitive bidding is:
US$ million equivalont
Estimated cost of       Mlinimum value of
works subject to         imported material
international com-       included in colum2
petitive bidding         (1) excluding
custom duties
(1)                      (2)
Installations for Electric Traction     34.7                    14.0
Installations for Signalling and
Telecommunication                      32.0                    12.7
Major earthworks of the Belgrade
iviarshalling Yard                      2.4                     -
Materials ancl Equipment for
MTarshalling Yards                      6.o                     6.o
Subtotal                                75 .1                   32.7
Contingencies                            7.5                     3.3
Total                                   82.6                    36.0
Percent of the total cost of
the Project (i.e. $185 million)        46                      20



- 22 -
V.  FUTURE EARi'IINGS AND FINANCES
A. Earnings
101.      Future earnings of the 22 transport enterprises for the period
1964 to 1970, as estimated by the Railways, are shown in Table 8. The fore-
cast of earnings assumes the present level of rates, which would be adjusted
upward by as much as 10 percent in 1965 and 10 percent in 1966, if necessary,
to offset higher costs of labor and supplies. The earnings projections are
based also on the Railways' traffic forecast discussed in Chapter VI, Section
B, and assume no increased wage rates not offset by increases in productivity
or tariffs. The forecast expenses give effect to same increases in staff,
upgrading in the structure of labor, normalized working hours based on a
42-hour work week, and the improved efficiency and the lower costs inherent
in the modernization program. The seven-year forecast of the income accoints
is summarized below:
(Billions of Dinars)
Operating      Operating 1/    Net Operating
Year      Revenues       Expenses         Revenues          Net Income
1964         232             208                24                9
1965         243              215               28               12
1966         253             223                30               13
1967         269             231                38               17
1968         279              239               40               17
1969         292             248                44               17
1970         306             258               48                19
1/ Operating expenses include depreciation.
102.      The operating ratios would gradually improve from 90 in 1964 to 8)4
in 1970. During the period of 7 years, times interest earned would be no
lower than 7 as shown for 1969. Debt service coverage is good, never falling
below 5 times, and the return on net operating fixed assets will range upward
from 4.0 percent in 1964 to 5.8 percent in 1970. As a result of the economic
benefits of the project (see (hapter VI), further improvement of the earnings
position may be expected after 1970.



- 23 -
B. Finances
103.      The future f-inances of the Railways are disclosed by the forecast
of balance-shieet and cash--flow data, Tables 9 and 13. The current and liquid
positions would appear to be marginal in r.cst of the future years and some
recourrse to borrowing for working-capital would become necessary in the near
future.  The Railways are in the course of arranging for additional funds to
be made available by the '.arger industrial firns in Yugoslavia and in foreign
countr--es, in the form of suppliers' credits. Of the 92e9 billion dir.ars of
suppliers' credits show-n in Table 13, 82 billion dinars are firm and their
average term is over 8 years at interest of 6 percent or less. Arrangements
for the remairder will be completed in the near future.
lo4.      The Railways' cash needs and sources of funds in 1964-1970 as fore-
cast by the Railways are set forth in Table 13, and are sumn,arized below;
Dinars
Cash Requirements                    (billions)
Capital investments                 744
Debt service                         95
Working capital adjustment          - 2
Total cash requirements            837
Cash Available
Railways                            6!J4
Bank loan                            52
Other loans                         170
Grants                                7
Total cash available                843
Increase in cash position            6
105.      In-ternal Cash gerneration of Dinars 614 billion would exceed debt
service requirements of Dinars 95 billion by the substantial amount of
Dinars 519 b:illion but would be insufficient to cover the proposed capital
investments of Dinars 744 billion.  The deficiency of about Dinars 225 billion
which is a rounded figure would be met in part by loans from republic and
municipal governments in Yugoslavia and from domestic ccmmercial banks; by
credits extended by domestic and foreign suppliers; and by a small grant
already committed by major freight car users. These items would provide
Dinars 177 billion; and would leave Dinars 48 billion to be obtained from
other borrowings. The Bank loan of Dinars 52.5 billion equivalent (US$70
million) would provide the deficiency and Dinars 3.5 billion for working
capital. In adclition, working capital requirements other than cash would be
reduced by about D.nars 2 billion, improving the cash position by about
Dinars 6 billion on the aggregate. During the period, some 73 percent of all
cash requirements would be met from internally generated funds.



- 24 -
106.      The proposed Bank loan would be made to the Yugoslav Investment
Bank which would re-lend the proceeds of the loan to the Railways on the same
terms.
107.      Debt equity ratios will remain favorable, ranging from 10/90 in
1964, to 19/81 in 1968 and 1969 and improving slightly in 1970 to 18/82.
VI. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Introduction
108.      The essence of the economic justification for the project is that
it irrill approximately double the Railways' line capacity to carry the increa-
sing traffic and make it possible to carry the traffic more efficiently and
improve the quality of service. Unless the Railways' capacity is increased,
it will become a serious bottleneck to the economic development of Yugoslavia
and seriously interfere with the country's ability to carry out the 1964-1970
Investment Plan. The economic rate of return on the project as a whole is
about 14 percent, which is satisfactory.
109.      The three lines included in the project form the backbone of
Yugoslavia's railway network. They connect the seven largest cities -
Belgrade, Zagreb, Sarajevo, Skopje, Ljubljana and Rijeka. The area of influ-
ence of the three lines encompasses about two-thirds of the countryts economy
and about one-half of its population.
110.      In close proximity to these lines are located one-third of Yugosla-
via's industrial enterprises producing about 60 percent of its industrial
output.  The most important industrial centers include coal mines, accounting
for more than ha'lf of total production, nearly all major steel works and oil
refineries, majo2 cement and fertilizer producers, and lumber and agricultural
products. In 1963, the three lines accounted for one-half of the railways'
total freight traffic. They carried about 5 million tons of imports and
exports, as well as 3.5 million tons of transit traffic, and are thus of
great importance for Yugoslavia's foreign trade and balance of payments.
B. Traffic Growth
111.      The Government and the Railways have made separate estimates of
traffic growth in 1964-1970. The Government's estimate, prepared in connec-
tion with the 1964-1970 Investment Plan, is based on analysis of the growth
in national production, the total quantity of traffic and its distribution
by mode of transport; it indicates a growth of railway freight traffic of
5.8 percent annually in the next 7 years. The Railways' own estimate is based
on an analysis of the major commodities carried, their future production
and consumption, and the probable location of new industries; it indicates
a growth of railway freight traffic from 17.6 to 24.5 billion ton/km during
this period, or about 5.1 percent annually, which is somewhat less than the
Government's forecast (see Table 7). Passenger traffic is estimated by the



the Railways to increase from 10.7 billion passenger/km in 1963 to 13.7
billion in 1970, an annual increase of 3.5 percent. These estimates appear
reasonable when compared with past trends (see paragraph 40) and the probable
growth in Yugoslavia's economic development, and they are consistent writh the
declining proportion of traffic carried by railway.' The Railways' more con-
servative traffic forecast has been used in this report to calculate the
economic beniefits of the Project.
C. The Marshalling Yards
112.      The new marshalling yards will increase the Railways' capacity to
carry its growing freight traffic and at the same time sharply reduce the
costs of classification.  The rate of return from these benefits during the
useful life of the investment of about 30 years averages about 9 percent;
it ranges from 8 percent for the marshalling yards at Zagreb and Ljubljana
to 14 percent for that at Nis. These are satisfactory returns in Yugoslavia,
especially since the calculation of benefits does not take into account the
time savings for the freight itself, nor does it allow for the fact that with-
out the investments the operating efficiency of the present yards would dete-
riorate seriously; the railway estimates that about one-half of the invesments
are needed merely to prevent such deterioration.
113.      The increased efficiency will be reflected in a speedier dispatch
of freight cars, savings in personnel and sharp reduiction in the need for
shunting locomotives. These savings are explained below for the Belgrade
marshalling yards; they are analogous for the other yards.
a. Freight Cars. The average stay of freight cars in the Belgrade
yards is now more than 15 hours; the modernization program is expected to
cut this time in half to about 8 hours, for a saving of about 7 hours. With
about 3,500 freight cars handled per day, the annual saving would be the
equivalent of about 1,000 freight cars. The annual capital and operating
costs of a freight car are nearly Dinars 850,000 (US$1,100 equivalent or
about US$3 per day), for a saving in 1970 of Dinars 850 million. The saving
for all marshalling yards would be more than Dinars 2 billion.
b. Personnel. In 1960, about 970 workers were employed for class-
ification work in Belgrade; for the 1970 traffic level (and assuming the 1960
level of productivity), this would have to be increased to about 1,150. The
modernization, how]ever, wJill permit the 1970 traffic to be handled with only
about 360 workers, a saving of nearly 800. The cost per worker is about
Dinars 700,000 annually (US$930 equivalent), for a saving in 1970 of Dinars
550 million. The saving for all marshalling yards amounts to about Dinars
1.5 billion.,
c. Locomotives. In 1960, 135,000 shunting locomotive hours were
required in the Belgrade yards; at the 1970 traffic level, this would amount
to nearly 190,000 hours.  It is estimated, however, that the modernized and
consolidated yard will reduce this drastically to about 40,000 hours, a sav-
ing of 150,000 hours.  The capital and operating costs of a shunting loco-
motive amount to about Dinars 3,400 per hour (about US$4.50 equivalent), for
a saving in 1970 of about Dinars 500 million. The saving for all marshalling
yards amounts to about Dinars 1 billion.



- 26 -
D. Electrification and Signalling Equipment
114.       Electrification of the three main lines and their provision
with modern signalling and communication equipment are from an economic
point of view closely interrelated. It is estimated that they will more
than double the capacity of these lines and at the sarne time sharply
reduce operating costs. The rate of return from these benefits during
the useful life of the investmients of about 30 years is estimated at 17
percent. In addition, there will be major benefits in time savings both
for passengers and freight, which are not included in the above calculation.
115.       The cost reductions include a reduction in traction costs (Dinars
11 billion in 1970 or nearly US$15 million equivalent), savings in capital
and operating costs of freight and passenger cars (Dinars 2.5 billion or
US$3.3 million), reduction in personnel (Dinars 5 billion or US$6.6 million)
and reduced accidents (Dinars 2 billion or US$2.7 million), for a total sav-
ing of about Dinars 20 billion (US$27 million).
a. Traction Costs. Traction costs include fuel, lubrication of
locomotives, their maintenance and repair, locomotive personnel, deprecia-
tion and interest of locomotives, and the capital and operating costs of
related flxed installations.  W^lith the present mixture of steam and diesel
locomotives, the traction costs per gross ton/km range from Dinars 0.75
to 1.1 on different sections of line; electrification will cut these costs
nearly in half to a range estimated at Dinars 0.40 to 0.55.   At the exist-
ing level of costs, the traction costs for moving the 1970 traffic on the
three lines would be about Dinars 26 billion; electrification is estimated
to reduce this to about Dinars 15 billion, for a saving of Dinars 11 billion.
b. Passenger and Freight Cars. Electrification and the installa-
tion of signalling equipment will increase train speeds greatly; it is
expected that the average speeds of passenger trains will increase from
about 35 to 40-45 km per hour, of express trains from 70 to about 80 km per
hour, and for freight trains frcm 20 to 30-35 km per hour. This means that
the same amount of traffic can be carried with fewer cars. At the 1970
traffic level, this involves a saving of about 2,000 freight cars and 150
passenger cars. The value of cars is approximately Dinars 3.5 million for
freight cars, Dinars 25 million for 2-axle and Dinars 45 million for 4-axle
passenger cars; the capital saving is thus about Dinars 14 billion or,
expressed on an annual basis in terms of depreciation and interest, about
Dinars 1 billion. The maintenance and repair of these cars would have cost
about Dinars 1.5 billion annually, for a total saving of Dinars 2.5.
c. Personnel Reduction.  The number of workers involved in
signalling and communication work in 1963 was about 6,250; without improve-
ments, about 8,500 would be required to handle the estimated traffic in
1970. With the new equipment, however, it will be possible to handle the
1970 traffic with only about 2,700 workers, allowing a reduction of 5,800.
The annual costs per worker are about Dinars 900,000 making for a total
saving of about Dinars 5 billion in 1970.



- 27 -
d. Accident fleduction. On the basis of the 1963 accident rate for
accidents caused by inadequate signalling equipment, the Railway estimates
that at the 1970 traffic level the daanage to railway property - primarily
due to collisions and derailments - will be about Di'nars 1.4 billion. Pay-
ments for damages to freight are estimated at about Dinars 1 billion. Of
the total property damage of Dinars 2.4 billion, the modern signalling equip-
ment will eliminate about three-fourths, or about Dinars 1.8 billion. It
will also reduce personal injuries, of which about 150 deaths and 80 serious
injuries in 1963 could have been prevented by better signalling equipment;
the Railway paid for these more than Dinars 200 million in damages.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMNTENDATIONS
116.      The Railways' Seven-Year Investment Program 196h-1970 as made
available to the mission appears to be sound.   The Project, which is an
essential part of the Program and which is to be executed from 1964 to 1968,
the first five years of the program, is technically and financially sound.
It is also economically justified, will provide the increase in capacity
needed to meet increasing traffic dsmands and improve efficiency.   The cost
estimates are realistic. The procurement procedures proposed are acceptable.
117.      The Railways are well organized, managed and operated despite the
lack of capacity and other technical deficiencies in the system. Operations
have been profitable but operating ratios have been adversely affected by
existing conditions (para 67). Future financial position will be satis-
factory.
118.      The Project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$70
million equivalent, which would cover about 38 percent of the cost of the
Project. A term of 25 years including a 5-year period of grace would be
suitable.
November 25, 1964



Table 1
YUGOISLVIA
FREIGIGHT TRIFF'ILC, BY IS1DE, rVcF TRUiMOPOTRT, 1952-1963
(Nillion5 of ton/km)
YEAR       1oTAL       RAILWAYS              I4RITI.1E                  HIGH.WIAYS
Inland     Coastal        Trucking       Ofn
vlaterways  Traffic       Enterprises    Account
1952       n.a.         8)383             716         173            115         n.a,
1953       n.a9 8,817                     533         143            133         n0a
1954       n.a.         9,571             764         166            145         n.a
1955       n.a,        11,577             816         230            180         n,a,
1956       n.a.        11P869             9L8         208            2C6         n,a,
1957      15,567       12,984           1,318         226            349         690
19C8      16,284       13,031           1,1491        257            560         945
1959      17,946       13,974           1,636         499            816       1,021
1960      19,6914      15,191           29010         390          l,o16       1,087
1961      19,998      1i4,911           2,085         370          10382       1;220
1962      20,922       15,033           2,212         358          1,611       1,708
1963      214,345      17,345           2,1499        376          2,025       2,100
Average distances
of freight haulage
(kmn)                     240            390         285              95          15
Source: Secretariat for Transport and Communications.



Table 2
YUGOSLAVIA
PASSENGCER TRAFFIC, BY iMCDE OF TRANSPORT, 1952-1963
(Millions of passenger/kn)
YE1AR   TOTAL    RAILWAYS 1/           HIGHWAYS         AIR          MARITILE
Buses 2/  Passenger           Coastal    Inland
Cars 3/            Traffic Waterways
1.952   5,561       4,815          417        130        24      151       2h
1953    6,961       6,015         549         150        29      191       27
1954    7,676       6,536         692         170        33      206       39
1955    8,g909      7,533          86h        190        50      230       42
1956    8,816       7,314          966        220        47      2h8       21
1957   10,095       8,o59       143h6         325        53      285       27
1958   11,492       8,877       1,760         h25        60      340       30
1959   12,502       9,250       2,231         580        82      333       26
1960   1L,574      10,8h9       2,826         310       114      348       27
1961   14,894      10,089       3,139      1, 180      137      326       23
1962   15,173       9,908        3,330      1,425       164      325       21
1963   16,780      10,673       3,876       1,655       267      293       16
Average distances
pei, trip (km)         50           27         -        532 4I L6          30
1/ Beginning in 1955 includes passengers coming from other countries or in
transit.
Inter-urban public services only.
j   Estimate based on the reasonably conservative assumption that each passenger
car travelled about 6,000 km annually in inter-city traffic, with an
occupancy rate of about 2.5 persons per car.
4/ Includes international traffic; without international traffic average
distance would be about 300 kn.
Source: Secretariat for Transport and Communications.



Table 3
YUIGOS LkVIA
INVESTIIENT IN TRANS PORT, 1954-1963
(Billions of Dinars) /
YLAR    TOTAL    RAILWAY    HIGHWAY          OCEAN PCRTS       INLkND
(incl. vehicles)    AND SHIPPING    WATEPX.A'.YS  AVIATION
1954     67.9     36.6        15.8                12.6           1.5          1.3
1955     73.5     141.6       15.0               l.h4           1.9          008
1956     90e2     51.2        18.1                18.3           2.2          0.4
1957    104.0     55.3        26.0                17.9           3.3          1.7
1958    102.5     Li442       37.5                15.5           4.2          1.1
1959    124.0     18.7        44.0                24.4           5.4          1.5
1960    143.3     50.8        59.8                23.7           5.8          3.2
1961    162.6     50.4         71.6               26.9           6.4          7.3
1962    162.2     47.2         78.3               25.3           6.2          5e2
1963 j 160.0      40.0         83.0               18.0           6.0         13.0
/ At current prices.    The index for producers prices increased about 2
percent annually during this period.
2/' Estimate.



YUGOSL A VIA
fl0~~~~~LA2LRAIIi4AIS                                       T~~~~~~~~~~~~hbl, _4
Su,aory of Selectd OeairStniC.1958 - 1963
1 5 a/                         1960 99611962                                        1963
I. TRAFFIC                                              St,,,,   N.G.     St.G    N 1G     St. G,   N.G,     S.     ..         St.G    N,G      St.G.    N.0.
Poassengers carried                         (million)   162.5    21.5     169.7   21.1     189.5    22.7     175.5    19.5    n...     n.e.     n.a.     n.e.
Posonengro carried, tot,] St.G.+ N.G.       (million)        184.0            190.7            2.12.2            195.0           192.9              201.3
r'ase.e.gro-yn                              (million) 8,048     829     8,397    853     9,502     947     9,224     865      n..-     n.e.     n...     n.e.
Pessenger-Ke, tot3i St.G.+ N.G.             (million)      8,877            9,250           10,449            10,0)89          9,908             10,673
Freight-Tone carried h/                     (million)    49.7     7.6      53.1    7.6      57.4     7.9      57.0     7.2     56.1     7.5      63.9      7.9
Freight-Tne car,ild, total St.G.+ N.G.      (0111mm)          57.2             60.7             65.2              64.2            63.6               71.5
Freight-Ton-IOn b/                          (miliie)11,610  .1,421.   12,535  1,440    13,757   1,434   .13,664   1,2Z77   13,663   1,370   15,290    1,455
Froitht_To_EmK, totel St.G.+ H.G.           (nillion)     33,031           13,974           15,191            14,941            15,033           17,345
Traffic Unit. g/                            (mt1lion).19,658  2,250    20,932  2,293    23,259   2,381    22,888   2,142     n.e.     n.e.    n.e.      n.e.
Tr.ffic Unit~, total St.G.+ N.0.            (million)     21,908           23,224           25,640            25,030            24,941           28,018
22. 0FERATICU
Trein-K,n, Total                            (000)    73,938  15,135   80,24   15,085    09,210  15,551    93,152 14,883     95,330  2.4,374  100,621  14,694
Passenger(0)                               35,265   4,708    38,912  4,852    45,174   5,130    47,970   4,971     51,01-1  4,774  53,032    4,681
Freight                           (00000)  38,673  10,427    41,230  10,353   44,036  10,421    45,182   9,912     44, 319  9,600  47,589   10,013
Tr-ain-IOn by mode of traction, Steon       (000)    71,088  14,748   74,879  14,808    78,989  15,147    70,151  14,519    61,499  14,0.13  61,711   14,311
*     a     ~~~~~Diesel    (000)     -       -         -       -        1,354    -       00,221   -        16,661    -      18,112     -
*            Elec~~~~M tric  (020)   1,587   -        1,623    -        2,101    -        2,805   -         3,431    -       4,967     -
Railoar-eet-kam, Diesel                     (000)     1,211     387    3,512     377     6,671     404     9,767     364    13,536     361   15,085      383
Electric                          (000)        52    -         128    -           95    -          208   -           203    -         346     -
Total Trein-Nie, St.G. + N.G.               (00)          89,073           95,6917          104,761           108,035           109,7014         115,315
Gross-Ton-Km, Steem                         (million )33,799  2,456   35,956   2,497    38,304   2,603    33,217   2,558    28,008   2,487   29,485    2,611
0  Diesel                        (million)    47      29      130      28       706      31     6,298      27    11,.361     28   12,830       30
Electric                      kmillion)   654   -          715    -          843     -       1,271   -         1,593     -      2,628      -
Tot.,! Green-To-Xe                          (millimn)34,503  2,485    36,801   2,525    39,853   2,634    40,786  2,5835    40,962   2,515   44,943    2,641
Total Groso-Ton-Fon, St.G. + N.0.           (million)    36,988            39,326            42,487           43,371             4.2,477          47,5814
Loconotive-Nn  d/                           (0,     9,1      177     12842,9             7772,1           7442,6             7992,1           924     2,2
Steam0                                           8252,5          02842,9           0,7      2,1       7442,6            ?91     112     8,5       36v
Diesel                                 (00)        164   -          190o   -        1,746    -       11,953   -        19,032    -      21,089     -
laectric                               (000)    2,0(66   -        2,151    -        2,714   -        3,430    -         4,112    -       5,717    -
Railcar-Yin, Diesel                        (000)     1,357     387     3,683     377     7,169     404   00,850     364     16,571     361   20,587      383
Electric                        (000)       66    -          180    -          116    -         231    -           216    -         346    -
Total Motive Power-Unit-IOn  i(!           (000)   101,86   22,144   109,068 22,07r?5  .19,522  22,523   123,898  22,125   117,850  21,473  136,993   212,017
Total Motive Fewer-Unit-INn, St.G.4 8.G. dJ(000)       124,012            131,143           142,045          146,023            149,323          159,010
Ill. OPERATING ERFICOIONY
EOngine-lOn per engine-doy oneiliable dI/
steenm loccomotives                    (Ikn)       194     154       198     152       219    155       207     159,       200     157     200      160
Dioeld kooetve                          ()                                              92   -363 ./ -                     3948    -       408/     -
Electric looeeotive'e                  (ka,)       353      -        368     -        414    -408               -          433    -       447       -
Diesel railcare                        (l3e)        74     354       260     207       304    370       356     334        404     24.4    397       349
Trelflic-Unite per trein-]on, St.G. + 8.0.                 246               243              245               232                228            243
Freight-Ton-Y. por freight-tr-in km                    300    .136       303     139       3.11   138       302     13         308     14      332       146
Fr-eight--To-n-N  per freight-c.r in fleet  (000)      191     147       202     1.49     219     158       215     142        214     156     249      166
Average tur-n-round tine cr fraeight care LI  (days)   5.3     4.8       5.5     5,0       5.3    4.4       5.8     4.7        5.6     4.5     5.2      4.3
Averege 10.2d per cr(twon)                            14.0    11.1      14.2   11.2      1.4.2   11.1      25.4    11.1       i4.6    11.1   .14.9     11.1
Ratio of loaded to total freight car-kmn               0.74    0.70      0.74   0.70      0.75    0.70      0.73    0.70       0.72    0.69    0.73     0.71
IV. STAFF FFFICIE2ICY
oN=bor of jbpioyeee                                  129,84.5            138,945           145,016           1.4,174           145,231          149,774
Traffic tUeite per Mnployee                (000)         160                 167               177              168                170              107
Grose-ToXn-  per Bnplaoye                  (DION         285                 282               3?292                           ..   92               1
Reployeee Per kmn of line                                11.2                11.9              12.2             3.2.5    [         12.4            .12.6
Nota, a g/ St.G. = Standard Gouge; H. 0. = Narrow Gouge.
8/Including depaortmnntal traffic.
8/Traffic units ror mode up by adding paasenge.-kmn and tee-km.
8/Including ehinting, double beading, etc.
&/Rcoluding 15 dienel electric loconotivee on deed line eince 1901.
LITur-around tine of freight caret member of aneilable cardays per year divided by total of core loaded In the eyeton plus earn entered londed into the 1-
Source, Years 1958-1961 Statistice of International Union of Rail.eym (U00)
Yeer, 1962 and 1963 Reports of the Community of Yugoslav Rni1weya



A  0  FA      1-  . g  g
.                          a' oS
---------------- -------r---
_    .0
-  - -       -    - -  -N  
In~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
10 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
H                  .0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
F^           0     H D
'0i      -  0
8 '          0 ,  *   $a o
10 ~ ~~~~0
C)
oJ                . 0 F'   o  ? s
V 0                 H k '
H     -3 -   --- --  
o              H~~~~~~~~~~c
,      0A          F'),
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ -   -   -
F' F C^
H'  HJ                    [ Hg 
g    a0          900  'A
H  '          "'  'P 
3-i   '3    ,-3S      ''
_  3 _                0 



YUGOSLAVIA
YUGOSJAV RAIlWAYS
Motive Power and Rolling Stock, Yearly Averages 1958 - 1963
1958     f/         1959                1960                1961                  1962                 1963
St. G.   N. G.      St. G.    N. G.     St. G.    N. G.     St. G.     N. G.      St. G.   N. G.      St. G.   N. G.
I. I CTIVE POWER
Steam locomotives
In fleet  (nos.)               1,713     542       1,711     538       1,704     533       1,691      524       1,64.1    520        1,596     506
Available  (nos.)              1,374     387       1,426    391        1,349     394       1,285      373       1,204     367        1,220     370
Available  ()                     80     71           83     73           79      74          76       71          73      71           76      73
Diesel locomotives /
In fleet  (nos.)                   9     -             9     -            66      -           95       -          136      -           154
Available (nos.)                  -      -            -      -            52      -           90       -           132     -           142      -
Available(%)                      -      -            -      -            79      -           95       -           97      -            92      -
Electric locomotives S/
In fleet  (nos.)                  18     -            18     -            22      -           27       -           29                   41      -
Available (nos.)                  16     -            16     -            18      -           23       -           25      -            35      -
Available ()                      89     -            89     -            82      -           85       -           86      -            85      -
Diesel railcar sets dM
In fleet (nos.)                   50      5           60      5          107       5         109        5         160       5          193       5
Available (nos.)                  45      3           37       5          60       3          75        3         112       4          142       3
Available (%)                     90      60          62     100          56      60          69       60          70      80           74      80
E2ectric railcar sets e/
In fleet  (nos.)                   4      -            4     -             4      -           4        -            4      -            4
Available (nos.)                   3      -            3     -             3      -           2        -            2      -             2      -
Available(%)                      75      -           75      -           75      -          50        -            50     -            50      -
Total H.P. of Motive Power Units
Steam (000)                    1,266     151       1,347     181       1,375     196      1,314       167        1,235    160        1,239     165
Diesel (000)                      17      2           24      2           99       2        240         2         262       2          280       2
mectric (000)                     47     -            47      -           61      -          96        -          313      -           141      -
II. ROLLING STOCK
Passenger cars
In fleet                       4,967    905        4,983    927        5,089     998      5,254     1,007        5,355    995        5,226     991
Available (%)                     88     88           91     90           90      91         92        90          90      90          90       90
Total seating capacity (OCO)     207     18          210     19          221      21        231        24         240      26         242       23
Freight cars
In fleet                      61,007  9,679       62,335    9,582     62,938   9,059     63,480     9,0214     63,580   8,796       63,796   8,741
Available (%)                     85     93           91      95          92      94         92        94          93      94          95       95
Total carrying capacity(0WOtm 1,133     113        1,180     114       1,225     106      1,275       109       1,294     106        1,342     105
Average capacity per car itonb) 18.6    11.7       18.9     11.9       19.5     11.7      20.1      12.1         20.3    12.1        21.5    12.0
Notes: a    St. G. = Standard Gauge; N. G. = Narrow Gauge.
i   Excluding 15 diesel electric locomotives on dend line since 1961.
S/ Lncludes 17 locomotives built in 1934 sad before.
S Units of powered cars and trailers. Figures include 12 sets built in 1939 and before.
/ Units of rowered cars and trailers bullt in 1937.
Without railc4r trailers, but including rertaur nt, sleeping and service c. rs and baggage and mail vans.



YdGOSLAVIA
YUGOSLAV RAILLAYS
FreiFht Traffic by Ma1or Commoditiea. 1050-1970*
(Billions of t,on-kn)
Copmodits                       l9S           1962         1963                  1Q64         1965         1966         1967         1968         196          1970
Coal                              2.3          4.1          4.8                   5.9          S.2          5.;4         5 8          6.0          6.3          6.6
Ores and Concenrrbtes             0.4          1.7          1.8                   2.1          2.2          2.3          2.5          2.6          2.7          2.8
Building Material                 0.8          1.3          1.5                   1.6          1.7          1.8          1.9          2.0          2.]          2.2
tAber                             1.7          1.3          1.5                   3.5          1.6          1.7          l.g          1.9          2.0          2.1
Mel.allurgic Products             0.3          1.1          1.3                   1.4          1.4          1.5          1.6          1.7          1.7          1.8
Cereals                           0.1          0.7          1.0                   0.9          0.9          0.9          1.0          1.0          1.1          1.1
Fertilizers                       n.a.         0.7          0.9                   0.9          0.9          0.9          1.0          1.0          1.1          1.1
Petroleum end derivatives         0.3          0.5          o.6                   0.7          0.7          0.7          0.8          0.8          o.8          0.9
Non metals                        0.1          0.4          0.5                   0.5          0.5          0.5          0.6          o.6          o.6          0.7
Cement                            0.3          0.2         .0.3                   0.3          0.3          0.3          0.3          0.3          0.3          0.4
Other                             2.7          2.5          2.8                  _3e0          1.2         _3              7_.1
.o:al C.rload                     9.0         14.5        -17.1                  17.8         18.6         1''.4        20.8         21.7         22.6         23.8
Less tihan Carload                n.a.         0.                                              0 6          0.6          0 6          0.7          0.7- -7
Grand Total                       9.0         15.0         17.6                  18.3         19.2         20.0         21.5         22.4         23.3        ,24.c
* 19-0-1963 actual; 196'-1,70 forecast by Railway.
Figures may not add because of rounding. Canio-dity statistics r!a difi-er slit,: tly from oneretional st istUcs beccuse
of difierent collection -,ethod.
1,ova.aber 25, 1964



YUGu.,LAVIA
YUGCSIAV RAILWAY TRAR!SPORT E3:TE2.PRISES
Revenuo.Sxpenses ana Nct Income Data
Actual    1959 to 1963
Estimated 1964 to 1970
(Bil)io1s of Diiars)
1929     1960      1961     1962      1963            1964     1965      1966     1967      1968     1969     1970
Operating i.evenues
FassCnrZ.r                                                         25        33       49        52       60               61       63       65        638      70       73        76
Freight                                                            105      132      155       156      177              184      193      201       216      225      235       247
Yail                                                                -        -         2         2        2                2        3        3         2        3        2         3
Other                                                               14       21       37        49       66             _6       _6          70       70       70        71       71
Gross Opes-tifng Revenues                                          144      191      243       259      305              316      328       339      356      368       381      397
Less Inter-entUrprise items                                        .a,      n.a.      47        66       80              .84       SS        8S       87       89        S9       91
Total Operating Revenues                                           144      191       195      194      225              232      243       253      269      279       292      306
2reri"a_- ExLenses
(i:et o. Inter-enttrprise Items)
"a e- !. d salaries                                                n.a.     n.a.      56        55       67               68       71        74       76       78        cl       84
Fuel and electric Power                                             22       25        28       29       32               33       34        34       32       j2        30       31
Hate:ials and Supplies'                                            n.a.     n.a.        4        5         8               8        8         9        9        9         9       10
Purchase taxes                                                      -        -          1        1        2                2        2         2        2        2         2        2
Management fees                                                      3        3         5        7        8                7        7         7        7        7         8        8
Desrecietion                                                        21       21        20       21       26               50        53       57       64        69       74       78
Mtiscellaneous - Renewals                                           22       28        5        5        55             _-40       40       .         4        42        44       45
Total Operating Expenses                                           138      160       170      173      198              208      215       223      231       239      248      258
let Oxprati-_ Reve-.ues                                                6       31        25       21        26              24        28       30        A8       40       44        48
Kiscellaneous Re -nue                                                 17        1         5        3         2               1         2        2        2         2        2         2
Net :e.eenue before interest                                          23       32        30       24        28              25        30       32       40        42       46        50
Lnterezt                                                               -        -       I          1         1               1         2        2         3                 7         7
Incone b2forc ded-ajctio s                                            23       32        29       23       27               24        28       30       37        39       59        43
Deductions frc: I.come:
9ay:ents to Gover.ament for use of
fixed ussets                                                         1         i       10       10         6               7         7        7         8       10       10        10
!dymnnts to social investment funds                               n.a.     n.a.                  2        4                          4        5        6         6        6         8
Ap,rop-iai.d Lo 1odernizetion Fund                               -.e.         .                            5               5         5                  6             6        6.
Total Deductions                                                       3                 12       12        15               15       16        17       20       22        22       24
Net Income                                                            20        26       17        11       12                9       12       1a        17       17        17       19
Opera i>r Ratios                                                      9         84       87       89        88              90        89       88        86       86        85       84
Times Intoroct   rned                                                  _         _       30       19        20               17       17       15        14                  7
Tines Inter,...-t   ~~rnc-                                              -         -                        143., 5.
Del:t Se- %icc Co.cra.ge                                               _         _        _18
::eturn o,  .;v:-r. ;:7 FLxed Aznstz                                 1.4.      6.5                .,2      .i4       !       .0  *;.7           2       -                   5       5.8



YUrC.C'dL',-7lA
YUCOSLAV RAIUII.AY TRANSPORT ENJTERFN1ISS
Balance Sh.et Data
Acetual J062 - 96  ndE    tmae)d 1964 - -1970
(Billionr of L'inors)
1962       9        1        1965      19b6      1967        6     1969    1970
A s9s e t s
Current Assets
Cash - operating                                                                  21        22        -         -         -        -         -                 -
investment                                                                 17        25                                    -                          -
Total cash                                                                 38        47       44        32        25        28       31       33       52
Accounts receivable                                                               14         4        4         4         5         5        5        5        5
Other current items                                                               36       40        32        33        33        33       33       34       34
Materials a-d Supplies                                                            22        27       28        28        29        29        30      30       31
Total current assets                                                             110       118      108        97        92        95       99      102      122
Fixed Assets
Land - rail-way                                                                    7         7        7         7         7         7        7        7        7
Pernanent vay and structures                                                     726       765      768       796       823       963      998    1,078    1,132
Rolling Stock                                                                    397       407      427       449       485       520       561     594      620
Buildings                                                                         60        64       64        65        65        72       73       73       74
Cther operatinE property                                                         42         4        47        62        78        97       -10     124      135
Cross operating fixed assets                                                   1,252     1,287     1,313    1,378     1,458     1,659     1,748   1,876    1
Accumulated depreciatio. on ope:ating fixed assets                               654       682       7 1      74     -            906       975   1.0L9    1,.26
Net Operating fixed assets                                                       598     -60-5                5 4       616       7S3       773     828      842
'*ork in progress                                                                 33        36       99       149       2G2       156       170     146      132
Social standard net assets                                                        28        33        38       4_.       47        52        57      62       66
Totcl net fixed assets                                                           659       674       719      785       865       961     1,000   1,036    1,040
Total Assets                                                                     769       792       827       882      957     1,056     1,099    1,138   1,162
L i a b i 1 i t i e s
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                                                                  11        14        14        14       14        14        15       14       15
Cur, ent accounts - wages a .d other items                                        50        50        50        50       51        51        51       52      52
Accrued debt service                                                               1         3         1         1        1         1         1     -_1         1
Total current liabilities                                                         62        67        65        65       66        66        67       67       68
'Lne-Term Debt
'Working capital                                                                   9         4         5         6        6         7         7        8        8
Operating fixed assets                                                            36        37        55        83      124       154       172      174      172
Social standaid property                                                          11        12        14        1S        17       19        20       21       22
Total long-Term Debt                                                              56        53        74       104       147      180       199      203      202
Total Liabilities                                                                118       120       139       169       213      246       266      270      270
Enuitv                                                                              651       672       688       713      713t       Plo      833      868      891
Total Liabilities and Equity                                                     769       792       827       882       o57     1,056    1,079    1,138    3,162
Ratios:
1. Current Ass-ts to Current Liabilit.es                                       1.8 to 1 1.8 to 1 1.7 to 1 1.5 to 1 1.4 Lo 1 1.h to 1 1.5 to 1 1.5 Lo 1 1.8 to 1
2. Current Assets, less ht,rlals and Supilies
to Current Liabilities                                                      1.4 to 1  1.3 to 1  1.2 to 1 1.1 tl' 1 1.0 Lo 1 1.0 to 1 1.0 to 1 1.1 to 1 1.3 to 1
3. Debt to Eujity                                                                8/92     7/07     10/?O     1,/87     c/8E4     18/p-    1')/Fl   19/pI1   18/82
. ov:nmbr 25, 196/.



Table 10
YUGOSLAVIA
YICOSLAV RAILWAYS
Seven-Year Investment Plan 1964 - 1970
Dinar          llS$ million
million        equivalent
I. Capital Investments - Railways
A. Reconstruction and Modernization Program of Mainlines, 1964 - 1968
1. Installations for Electric Traction on 1,578 route-kon                              38,960           51.9
2. Installations for Signalling and Telecommtnication on 1,509 route-km                35,825           h7.8
3. Construction of new marshalling yards at Belgrade, Zagreb, Ljubljana
and Skopje, and modernization and extension of the existing marshalling
yards at Nis and Doboj                                                            52,975           70.6
Subtotal                                127,760          170.3
4. Contingencies (10% of the estimated expenditure 1965-1968)                          11,013           li .7
Subtotal A                              138,773          185.0
B. Other Investments, 1964 - 1970
1. Relaying of tracks and reconstruction of the substructure of lima                  149,000          198.8
2. Contribution of Railway Enterprises to the cost of elimination
of level crossings                                                                 6,370            8.5
3. Reconstruction of bridges                                                            7,983           10.7
4. Construction of a local freight yard at Belgrade-Zemun and of a
freight shed at Zagreb                                                             7,877           10.5
5. Remodeling of the railway junctions at Sarajevo and SkopJe, and of
the railway installations at the Port of Rijeka                                   21,hh3           28.6
6. Purchase of 250 electric locomotives, 201 mainline diesel locomotives
and of 127 diesel shunters                                                       103,665          138.2
7. Purchase of about 22,000 freight cars                                               86,980          116.0
8. Purchase of 45 diesel railcar sets, 29 electric railcar sets, 66 rail-
buses and about 1,600 passenger cars                                              77,60L          103.6
9. Reconstruction of other stations and junctions                                      37,013           49.4
10. Conversion of about 80 km of narrow-gauge lines into standard gauge                 13,455           17.9
11. Replacement of signalling installations and other reconstruction                    29,632           39.5
12. Replacement of equipment and miscellaneous                                          25,930           3h.6
Subtotal B                             566,954          756.3
Total Capital Investments Railways                                        705,727          9b1.3
IL Capital Investments - Social Standard
Staff housing, welfare and recreation facilities                                          38,738           51.7
Total Investment Plan                                                      744,465          993.0
Note:
1) Section IA of the above Investment Plan represents the Project. Execution is scheduled for the first
five years - 1964-1968 of the Seven-Year Plan period, 1964-1970. Contingencies are included only in
the estimated expenditure 1965-1968.
2) Sections IB and II are scheduled for execution during the entire seven-year period. (Schedule of
expenditure, see. Table 13). Contingencies are not included in this part of the Program which is to be
financed from sources other than the proposed Bank loan.
3) The estimated value of imports is about US$35 million equivalent for the Project and about US$73 million
equivalent for the other investments as per Section IB.
November 25, 1964



Table 14
YUGOSLAVI
YUGCf8LkV RAILWIA'
Estimated Cost and Schedule of Ebcpendituro of the ProJoet. 1964 - 1968
I   Minimum       I
Ttal   Cost              Va-lue of              n5Eti,na,t(d  xnenad iture_ln D xi: r o
limpnrted
I              I      ~~~~~materials
us$           US" mill3 icn
'Dinar          Eu             equivalent
lin lion       yk--                                l96 '                  2 aq-,s  j66  ~ C 
1. Intatlletiono for J-2ect2Ic Traction 
A. in-ies wxith 25,0C0 volts, 50 cycles 
altoriaLing currunt (ACG.)                                  II
I.. Dobova - llngreb - Belgrade - Ilis -I26,031              I 34.7     I                     I    2,746       5,909      8, 63D       (,i3        2,143
Shcopje    1,113 kcm'                     I 
2. Vroolje - Sz-rajevo                 .2/23    '    5.103   t   6.8    I                     I        0         902       2,3/,3     1 C)"1
Subtotal A.C. lines                  1, 356 ian 1  31,134  I 41.5                          I    2,796       6,811     11,1734      2,0)-232)
S. Lines w~ithi 3,000 volts, direct current (D.C.) 
I. Je.senice-I.jubljnan-Dobova             177 kem'  6,432       8.5                          1    3,840       2, 174        412 
2. larlovac - Zagreb                        45     ": 4,394      1.9                                 794         600--
S,.zbLotal D.C. lines                  222 ]ail   7,826   1 104      I                                     ?22         .J?-
Subtotal      1,2LEI go'  38.960  I 51.                             I   7.43Q      .9-         11.591        '2           ,2
11. Insta-llations for  Signalling sand                             I
Teloccemaum:ieation 8 
A. Jesenice -Zegreb, and Novska - Belgraee-
Lapovo - His - Skopje-Titov \'eles     1,115 Ice'  27,768   I37.0      '                         2,660       5,917       6,29)9      7, Y,,1      5, 550
B. Rijeka - Zegrreb                           229       4,4.12      5.9                          I     870       1,800        1,742-
C. Vrpolje - Doboj and Zenica - Sarajevo      165  "I     I 3,4  t         I                     I                 92         iL/ I     IL0 
Subtotal     1L59.    ' km  58       47.8             12.7         I   3.58        8.64-1       2.L2         I2          L  L
111. Con!tituction and Mlodernizaotion of                            I
rl shnl:Ln~ Yin s
A. Cone truction of neit marshalling ynrds           ' 
vith the needed connecting lines sand
facilit.ies for the neintentocee and
repair of locanotives end cars                              I          I
1. Belgrade                                         17,200   I 22.9                           I    2,200      4,150        5,118       3,76'1       1,,-22
2. Za~greb                                         1 2,630   116.8     1                      I    1,220      2,690        3,180       3,62")      1,2
3. Ljub]jana 8/                                      7,200   1   9.6    1                            S60      1,620        1,150      1,270        1.7C0
4. Skopje                                        I   9,040      2 2.1   1                          2,300      3,768        2,926         4,6-
B. Moderni?.ation and Extension of existing
m:rsohalling yards 
1. Nis d/                                        '   3,1-10  1   4.1    I                             50        595          824         956         68 5
2. Doboj e/                                          3,75        5.     1                            -         ,620        1.655       -* 520
Subtotal               I 5297                I 0.      6.0          1    6.6~30   144          14 8 53     10.772        6-22.2
Total Allocated        I 127,760  t 170.3    a        32.7          I   17,640    32,669       35,956      27,339       14, 156
Contingzencies         111.013               I 4.  1                               3.267       4596        2.,734        i,iM
GRAND TOTAL             1 38,773  1185.0     I        36.0          I   17,640    35,936       39,552      30.-0`73     15,572
a/ Amteonts include only materials not manufactured in Yugoslavia which are to be imported.       Oustam duties are not included.
The total foreign exchiange cost of the Project would be highier than the above minimum value of imported materials if
foreig;n fires would be succesefu-l bidders.
8/Installation of eutcssatic block on both branchies of the section Zagreb-Ncovska and on the section Doboj-Zenica is
already cemplete.
8/ Works have started in 1962.
dJ/ No mainitenance and repair facilities for locamotives are included.
e/ flies related maintenaince and repair facilities will, be constructed at Sar-ajevo.  They are included in this estimate.
llcvtiber 25, 1.96/4



YUGOSLAVIA
YUGOSLAV RAILWAYS
Schedule of Project Works to be ccmnpleted  1965 - 1968
Beginning of
operation by                   E   e c t r i f i c a t i o n                     Signalling  a n d  Teleconmunication                   Marshalling  Y a r d s
end of year
1965          Jesenice - Ljubljana - Zidn-i Mozt          (D.C.)      Jesenice - Ljubljana
Karlovac - Zagreb                           (D.C.)   '          about 65 km                              I
Zagreb - Sisak - Hlovska                    (A.C.)
Belgrade - lapovo, via Southern Branch      (A.C.)   I
Total about 350 Im of lines                          I
1966      '   Zidani rost - Dobova                        (D.C.)   I  Ljubljana - Zidani Most                          I Ljubljana, Zagreb and Skopje with about
140% of their final capacity; mn-acting
Zagreb - Dugo Selo - Navska                 (A.C.)   '   Belgrade - Lapovo - Nis                          I lines of the Belgrade Yard for by-passing
I                                      I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~the passenger terminal.
'3elgrade - Velika Plana, via Northern Branch  (A.C.)  t  Skopje - Titov Veles
LIapcvo - Nis                               (A.C.)   '   Vrpolje - Doboj and Zenica - Sarajevo
Total about 400 km                                       Rijeka- Zagreb
Total about 700 kmlo
1967          Dobova - Zagreb                              (A.C.)                                                         Skopje and Doboi with full capacity
I  Novska - Slavonski   Brod                     (A.C.)                                                         Nis with 75% capacity
Vrpolje - Sarajevo                            (A.C.)
t   Total about 400 kmI
1068      1   Slavonski: Brod - Belgrade                   (A.C.)  t   Zidani Most - Zagreb and Novska - Belgrade       ' Belgrade, Ljub2jana, Zagreb and Nis
I                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~with full capacity
Nis - Skopje                                  (A.C.)I    Nis - Skopie
IA   I) 
Total about 400 km                                   '   Total about 750 kmo
I                                                        I                                                    I
a/ InstaLlation of autonatic block systems on the sectimns Zagreb-Novska, both branches, and Doboj-Zenica were started
in 1963 and will oe completed by end of 1965. These works are not included in the Project.
November 25, 1964



YTJGOSLAV RAILWAY TR4NSPORT ENTFRPRISES
Projected Cash Flow Data, 1961h - 1970
(Millions of Dinars)
Totals
19641      1965       1966      1967       1968       1969       1970       196L - 1970         %
I. Cash Reqairements
Capital investments - railways                   83,073    106,989    122,h156   113,002   107,201t    92,855     B0,1118       705,727
Capital investments - social standard             5 ,L61     5 81111    6 o60     5,677      5 701      5,089     11 906         38 738
Total capital investments                        88,2                 128,3516   118,679   1           97,91,4                    89.0
Debt Service:
Interest                                        1,336      1,800      2,077      2,9141    3,4131     6,679      6,5Lt2        21,,779
Repayments                                      3 765      5 039      6 761      9 730    12 163     15 399     17.831         70,668
Total Debt Service                              5,101      6,839      8,838     12,6441   15,594     22,078     24,353         95,447          11.2
Charge in working capital                       _L86o          773        535        321        21,6      1179       335        - 2,171         - 0.2
Total cash requireinents                           88,775    120,145    137,889   131,6LtLI  128,7L,5   120,501    109,742        837,741         100.0
E. Cash Available
Net income before interest                       10,774     13,332     111,990    19,L186    20,133    23,836     26,153        128,70L,
Depreciation                                     119,795    53,137     57,371     63,811     69,012    7,0o59     78,002        4ht5,187
Contribution to Modernization Fund               11 8113     5 51L6     5.,109     5 f01      5 967     6 186      6,56L.        39 916
Total internally-generated funds                 65,1t12    7,615      77,770     89,098    95,2      104,081    110,719        6807              73.4
Lois:
Proposed IEBD 16m                                -        17,358     12,817     13,494      8,831      -          -            52,500
From republics and cities                        5,858     7,999      8,521t     6,8411     5,328      2,916      2,237        39,703
Domestic corumercial banks                       3,576     11,7!17    5,0olt     5,601t     6,632      6,371t    h1,8911       36,867
Domestic supplier credits                       6,900      6,101     13,130      8,065      7,880      7,770      6,991        56,837
Foreign supplier credits                          It28     11 188     9 11o6    10 8311     6 116      3 158     1 966         36 096
Total Loans                                    1          Io3        118 917  -t   33      3Lt,787    20 21d   1T13O                            26.5
Grants- major users of freight cars                -          -         11,328     1,130     1,750        -         -             7,208            0.9
Cash surplus beginning of year:
Operating funds                                21,732
CaDital investment funds                        211,896
Total cash surmlus. beginninc of year          16,628     40,027      31,590     21,716    28,138     31,h02     31.,8110    _     __
Total cash available                            128,802    152,035    162,605    159,782    159,787    155,31,1  161,6l,7       8113,018         100.8
Cash position, end of year                 .     10,027      31,590     211,716   28,138     31,f112    3),,81,0   51,905
Increase in cash position - 196-1 - 1970
Nnu m    9c, 'bA, I a



Y UGOSLAVIA
RAILWAY SYSTEM
TO SAtZSURG ~ T. - 10 VlN:   <                                                I _
A u S T R I A
._.,  _     J   -\ l t     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~H  U  N  G  A     R    Y      r
III  SAAV-WC  PROEM AO, No.31-A
7~~    ~     ~      ~ 20 40 60 n0 05 *
under ~~~Cbonstrctonji 
IV.~~~ ~ OTHE                    OzqMotr  0' 20  40 0 60 0
OCTNIAc  e96e                                                                     1000-14026
FTR,E ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~t p                                                R   UC Mel  A  N I  A iirsr
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ k AIE  NOEAIN5\ B e                ooso1   (._s
'   Lines with gutotai  blC                  5,X    /  !  6 _ 
DC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Eiec     IRrnt3  vot  I  A    o l! lotvr t
III  sARAJEvo-pLO(R PkDJeCT LOan No 361-Yu     .i          \   pW  \~RAJEVO 
IV. OTEER              O   20   40   60   EO  lOO   2         3       }     /    4~Wad.  ,. e
OCTOBEK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i96%                                           I  BD14



