RESTRICTED
FILE      COPY                   Report No. P-406
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
YUGOSLAV INVESTMENT BANK
November 30, 1964



REPORT ATD RECOIf!NDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXi)CUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE YUGOSLAV INVESTi=T BANK
1.   I submit the following report and the recommendations on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$ 70 million to
the Yugoslav Investment Bank.
PART I - INTRODUCTION
2.   In June of 1962 the Yugoslav Government requested the Bank to
consider lending for road construction and railway improvement. The
Bank agreed to examine projects in these sectors and made a loan of
$ 35 million for a highway project in June 1963 and a loan of $ 35
million for Sarajevo-Ploce railway project in October 1963. In September
of 1963 the Yugoslav authorities requested the Bank to consider a further
loan for the railtrays and a mission visited Yugoslavia in June this year
to appraise the pronosed project. Loan negotiations were completed in
Washington in October.
3.   The proposed loan would increase Bank lending to Yugoslavia to
$ 250 million. The status of previous loans as at October 1964 was
as follows:
Amount
Year    No.                 Borrower          Purpose       (equivalent
in $ million)
1949    20 YU Federal People's Republic    Equipment for         2.7
of Yugoslavia             timber production
1951    51 YU Federal People's Republic    (Electric power,      28.0
of Yugoslavia            (mining, transport,
(industry, agricul-
1953    73 YU Federal People's Republic   (ture and forestry     30.0
of Yugoslavia
1961   277 YU  Yugoslav Investment Bank    Electric power        30.0
1962   318 YU  Yugoslav Investment Bank    Electric power        30.0
1963   344 YU  Yugoslav Investment Bank    Highways              35.0
1964   361 YU  Yugoslav Investment Bank    Railways              35.o
Total (including $ 62 million not yet disbursed):          190.7
of which has been repaid:                             20.2
Total now outstanding:                                170.5
Amount sold:                                                 1.7
Net amount now held by Bank:                               168.8



-2-
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSED LOAN
4.   The main characteristics of the proposed loan would be as follows:
Borrower:                           Yugoslav Investment Bank
Guarantor:                          Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia
Amount:                             The equivalent in various currencies
of $ 70 million.
Purpose:                            To assist in financing the improvement
and modernization of main lines.
Amortization:                       In 41 semi-annual installments,
beginning March 1, 1970 and ending
March 1, 1990. Each payment of
principal and interest taken together
would be approximately equal.
Interest Rate:                      5 %
Commitment Charge:                   3/8 of 1%.
PART III - THE PROJECT
The Yugoslav Railway System
5.   An appraisal report on the project is attached (No.1).
6.   The Yugoslav railways provide the backbone of the country's trans-
portation system. The main lines of communication run northwest to south-
east along the Save-Danube valley serving the principal agricultural and
industrial areas of the country. In the west and north the railway
system has been developed almost to western European standards, but in
the south development did not really begin until the establishment of
the Yugoslav state in 1919. The mountains across the center of the
country block access to the coast except at a few points and are a
serious handicap to transport.
7.   Since 1946 railway construction has been accelerated mainly to serve
the growring industrial and mining areas. By the end of 1963, the Yugoslav
railways operated some 9,000 route-km of standard gauge line and 2,600 Im
of narrow gauge line. In 1963, more than 7WG of all freight traffic was
carried by rail. New investment in the railways is required not only to
meet growing traffic needs on existing routes but also to open up the
less developed areas in the east and south.



-3-
8.   The organization of the railways is based on the Yugoslav concept
of "worker's self-management", and is extremely decentralized. There
are 22 railway transport enterprises responsible for the operation of
the system. There are also 39 auxiliary enterprises which are respon-
sible for such matters as the maintenance and repair of track, the
repair of rolling stock and the design and supervision of new construc-
tion. The "Community of Yugoslav Railways", in which all the enter-
prises are represented, is responsible for the supervision and co-
ordination of railway matters for the whole country as well as for
general questions such as rates and tariffs, technical standards and
overall planning. The formulation of transport policy and the coordina-
tion of transport matters is the responsibility of the Federal Secretariat
for Transport and Communica-tions. Although these arrangements appear
complex the numerous enterprises cooperate well with one another and
the railways are efficiently operated.
9.   The financial organization of the various enterprises differs
considerably from that customary in other countries. The total receipts
of the system are assigned to the several enterprises in accordance w¢ith
a formula designed to give all the enterprises an equal opportunity to
obtain financial rewards from efficient operation. A consolidation of
the accounts of all the railway enterprises shows that for the system
as a whole operating revenues in 1963 were $ 300 million equivalent
and operating expenses $ 264 million.
10. The railways have prepared a Seven-Year Investment Plan, 196h-70,
which is part of the General Social Plan of Yugoslavia. The railways'
plan provides for capital investments of almost $ 1 billion equivalent
over the seven-year period. The main items in the plan are: 1) the
electrification and installation of modern signalling equipment on three
main lines, 2) the construction of four new marshalling yards and
modernization of one existing marshalling yard, 3) renewal of the
permanent way, bridges and structures of the entire system, 4) purchase
of locomotives and rolling stock, and 5) remodelling of stations and
freight yards, and the conversion of narrow gauge to standard gauge lines.
The first two items of the Seven-Year Investment Plan form the project
which the Bank has been asked to help finance. The railways intend to
finance the purchase of locomotives and other rolling stock as far as
possible from suppliers' credits, and the improvement of line and station
capacities from loans from interested cities and republics. The remain-
ing parts of the plan will be financed from the railways' own funds.



The Reconstruction and Modernization Program of Main Lines
11. The three lines included in the project are the most important
lines for both domestic and international freight traffic in Yugoslavia.
They are: (i) Jesenice (the frontier station to Austria) - Ljubljana-
Zagreb-Belgrade-Nis-skopje-Titov Veles (towards Greece); (ii) Rijeka-
Zagreb; and  (iii)  Vrpolje-Sarajevo.   These three lines connect the
six largest cities - Belgrade, Zagreb, Sarajevo, Skopje, Ljubljana
and Rijeka.  The area which they serve encompasses about two-thirds
of the nation's economy and about one-half of its population. One-
third of Yugoslavia's industrial enterprises producing about 60% of
its industrial output are situated close to them. In 1963, the three
lines accounted for one-half of the railway's total freight traffic.
It has been estimated that freight traffic will increase at between 5%
and 6% annually over the next seven years. The project will approximately
double the capacity of the lines and make it possible to carry the traffic
faster and with greater safety.
12. The project consists of: 1) the installation of electric traction
on the above main lines; 2) the installation of modern signalling and
telecommunication systems over the lines and of automatic block systems
on those sections with the heaviest traffic loads; 3) the construction
of four new marshalling yards at Belgrade, Zagreb, Ljubljana and Skopje,
and the extension and modernization of the existing yards at Nis and
Doboj. The project is well-conceived and includes only items of the
highest priority.
13.  The installations are essential if the railways are to carry the
increased traffic forecast for 1970 and beyond.   Work has started already
on the marshalling yards and on the electrification between Jesenice and
Ljubljana; the other works are expected to begin soon.   Completion of
the project is scheduled for the end of 1968.   The total estimated cost
of the project is $ 185 million equivalent and the economic benefits
in the form of savings of time and reductions in cost are expected to
provide a return of 14 percent on the investment. The proposed loan of
$ 70 million would provide about 38% of the total investment. It is
not possible at the present time to determine precisely what the foreign
exchange component would be since many orders and contracts have not
been placed. However, the total amount of procurement which will be
subject to international competition is $ 75 million; this includes a
minimum of $ 33 million of equipment and materials which are not produced
in Yugoslavia and which must therefore be imported.
Execution of the Project
14. The project will be constructed by the communities of railway
enterprises at Belgrade, Zagreb, Rijeka, and Sarajevo and the railway
transport enterprise at Skopje. The organization and staff of the



-5-
railway enterprises are competent both administratively and technically.
All the equipment for electrification, signalling and telecommunications
and some specialized equipment for the marshalling yards will be purchas-
ed after international competitive bidding. Almost all the installation
of the equipment and one contract for earthworks at the Belgrade marshal-
ling yard will also be given to international tender. The remainder of
the work would not be suitable for a foreign contractor because of the
small size of the contracts or, in some cases, because of the need to
avoid interfering with the operation of trains. Equipment made in
Yugoslavia will be used if its cost does not exceed that of foreign
equipment including customs duties. It is likely that the equipment
will be provided by a foreign manufacturer and a domestic manufacturer
working in cooperation. In this way equipment designed by the foreign
firm can be produced with a maximum of domestic components which mini-
mizes the customs duty payable. The present duties, which are still
provisional in character, range generally from 25 to 40 percent. They
were imposed in 1961 when Yugoslavia adopted a unitary exchange rate
and were intended to provide partial compensation for the elimination of
a system of multiple rates. Realistic comparisons betwieen Yugoslav costs
and foreign costs are difficult to make because of the distortions in
the price system created by the multiple rates. Yugoslavia has provision-
ally acceded to GATT and plans to apply for full membership which will
require negotiation with other contracting parties under which substan-
tial reductions in the tariff may be made.
15. The proposed loan would be made to the Yugoslav Investment Bank
which is the main channel used by the Federal Government for foreign
development loans. The proceeds of the loan would be relent by the
Yugoslav Investment Bank to the railways on the same terms as those of
the Bank loan.
PART IV - LB;xAL INSTRUI4ENTS AND AUTHORITY
16. The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Yugoslav
Investment Bank and the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements
are substantially similar to those of the previous loan to the Yugoslav
Investment Bank for the Sarajevo-Ploce project.
17.  Sections 4.01 to 4.03 of the Loan Agreement prescribe the provisions
of the agreements to be entered into between the Yugoslav Investment Bank
and the beneficiary enterprises responsible for carrying out the Project.
The conclusion of these agreements in a form satisfactory to the Bank is
an additional condition of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement (Sections
8.01 and 8.02).



-6-
PART V - ECONOMIC SITUATION
18. A memorandum on the economic situation of Yugoslavia is attached
(No. 2). The memorandum describes how, after a period of readjustment
in the two preceding years, the growth of the Yugoslav economy accelerated
in 1963 wihen the gross material product increased by l2V. Investment in
1963 exceeded 30% of the gross material product. Although exports
continued their rapid rise, increasing by nearly 5% to $ 790 million,
and net invisible earnings almost doubled to reach $ 137 million, there
was a 19~% rise in imports so that the balance of payments deficit at
$ 86 million was substantially greater than in 1962. However, this
was more than covered by the inflow of foreign capital.
19. The formulation of a development plan for 1964-70 is now well-
advanced. The plan places less emphasis on the growth of investment and
more on raising living standards and on achieving a closer integration
of the Yugoslav with the world economy. High priority is given to the
expansion of exports which are expected to grow by about l%J annually,
and to the further growth of invisible earnings, especially from tourism.
20. Although the service on Yugoslavia's external public debt is expected
to absorb about 18.5 percent of foreign exchange earnings in 1964 the
total external debt of $ 1.1 billion is not excessively high. Service
payments are heavy because much of the debt is short-term; over the period
196h-70 some $ 820 million have to be repaid. Yugoslavia will need subs-
tantial capital imports if the growth of the economy is to be maintained,
but as long as she can continue to borrow, the new credits serve in
effect to roll over the existing ones.  Difficulties would arise if the
volume of external credits Yugoslavia could obtain were to be sharply
cut. lWhile this seems unlikely, the Government has in the past shown
itself able to take strong measures when necessary to meet its external
payment obligations. Moreover, the recent agreement to extend for four
years the settlement of pre-war Yugoslav dollar bonds is an indication
of the Government's willingness to meet its obligations.    In these
circumstances and in view of the projected fast growth in foreign exchange
earnings, I consider Yugoslavia creditworthy for the proposed loan from
the Bank.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
21. I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.



