Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20580
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(42290; P3030; 29880; 21181)
ON A
CREDIT/LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 32.6 MILLION (EQUIVALENT TO US$45 MILLION)
AND US$55 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
FOR THE SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT/LOAN (SAL II)
JUNE 30, 2000
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit (ECSPE)
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 2000)
Currency Unit = Lei
12.6 Lei = US$
US$ = 12.6 Lei
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANRE            National Agency for Energy Regulation
ARA             Agency for Restructuring Agriculture
ARIA            Agency for Restructuring and Enterprises Assistance
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CIS             Commonwealth of Independent States
CSSR            Center for Strategic Studies and Reforms
ECA             Europe and Central Asia
FSU             Former Soviet Union
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
IBRD            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA             International Development Association
IFI             International Financial Institutions
IMF             International Monetary Fund
PSD             Private Sector Development
PSRC            Public Sector Reform Credit
SAC             Structural Adjustment Credit
SAL I           First Structural Adjustment Loan
SAL II          Second Structural Adjustment Loan
SDR             Special Drawing Rights
SPM             Social Protection Management Project
SME             Small and Medium-sized Enterprises
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
*            Country Manager/Director:   Roger Grawe, ECCO7
Sector Manager/Director:   Pradeep Mitra, ECSPE
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Mark S. Davis, ECSPE



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 14
6. Sustainability                                                                     15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    17
9. Partner Comments                                                                   18
10. Additional Information                                                            20
Annex 1. Key Performnance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 28
This document has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only  in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P044147                                        Project Name: SAL II
Team Leader: Mark S. Davis                                 TL Unit: ECSPE
[CR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 23, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: SAL II                                         L/C/TFNumber: 42290; P3030; 29880;
21181
Country/Department: MOLDOVA                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: MY - Other Non-sector Specific
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  09/30/96                                 Effective: 10/17/97
.4ppraisal:  04/17/97                                 MTR: 06/24/98
Approval:  09/09/97                                 Closing:  12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn
Country Manager:     Roger W. Grawe
Sector Manager:      Samuel Otoo                                Hafez Ghanem
Team Leader at ICR:   Mark S. Davis                             Amup Baneji
ICR Primary Author:   Maya Sandu
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M-=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
MOTIVATION FOR OBJECTIVES
Moldova is a small, agriculturally dependent, landlocked country. It is also one of the poorest countries of
the Europe with an Atlas GNP per-capita in 1999 of $370. About half of the 4.4 million citizens live in



rural areas almost completely dependent on agriculture.  Two-thirds of the population are ethnic
Moldovans, while 14% are Ukrainians, 13% are Russians, 4% are Gagauzians, and 2% are Bulgarians. In
August 1991, Moldova regained its independence from the Former Soviet Union (FSU). Following the
break-up of the Soviet Union disagreements over economic policies together with ethnic factors resulted in
armed conflict between the regions on the right and left (Transnistria) banks of the Nistru River, and
ultimately resulted in the de facto partition of the country with the Transnistrian region. Throughout this
document, "Moldova" refers to the part of the Country excluding Transnistria.
Despite the Transnistrian conflict, Moldova's achievements in terms of creating a sovereign state based on
democratic principles and the rule of law have been impressive. The first democratic elections and the
adoption of a constitution marked important steps in the process of democratization. A system of political
pluralism and a multiparty control was established early in the transition process, and the emergence of
non-governmental organizations and of a rather independent and active media are also important early signs
of democratic development and popular participation.
Moldova's economy has suffered one of the greatest declines registered among the economies in transition.
A 60 percent decline in GDP and a corresponding deterioration of living standards was registered during
the first five years of transition, mainly due: to severe external shocks resulting from the collapse of the FSU
and the severe misalignment of Moldova's own productive capacity for competing in the world
marketplace. The breakdown of the country's traditional trade linkages and payment systems, as well as
the traumatic exposure to world prices, undermined the viability of the entire economic system. Perhaps
most importantly, Moldova's almost cormplete dependence on import of energy resources caused a
deterioration in its terms of trade which created acute stagflation and a severe balance of payment problem.
In 1992 inflation soared to 2,200 percent: and the cash fiscal deficit reached 22 percent of GDP. Real
average wages fell 53% between 1992 and 1994, alone.
During the early 1 990s, Moldova showed a firm commitment to stabilize and restructure its economy and
was considered a leading reformer among the CIS countries. With the introduction of a new currency in
1993 and tightening of monetary and fiscal policy, a period of fnancial stabilization commenced. The
reduction of the budget deficit on a cash basis from 22 percent of GDP in 1992 to around 5.8 percent of
GDP in 1995, and the contraction of the inflation to an annual rate of around 15 percent in 1996, gives
some evidence of the early success at stabilization. This was complemented by a series of first generation
reformns including trade and price liberalization, mass privatization and financial sector reform. Financial
stabilization, however, has not resulted in increased standards of living, as reflected by the drastic fall in
GDP and an increase in poverty.
Despite significant policy and structural advances, transformation of the economy was not sufficient to
sustain a positive growth response. The re(luction in output and failure to impose hard budget constraints
continued to undercut the macroeconomic and financial stabilization achieved earlier. The situation
deteriorated substantially in 1996 when the GDP fell by 8 percent and when the cash and commitment
deficit accounted, respectively, for 7 and 9.5 percent of GDP. The failure to control fiscal and quasi-fiscal
deficits, such as the accumulation of energy arrears, combined with financing made available from the
Multilateral Financial Institutions and private creditors, led to a rapid build-up of external debt and internal
arrears. Moldova's external debt grew at a rapid pace from zero in the early 1990s to US$800 million or
50 percent of GDP at end 1996. By the end of 1996, the stock of general budgetary arrears (including
Social Fund arrears) reached 11.8 percent cf GDP. The balance of the Social Fund, out of which almost
all type of social benefits are paid, deteriorated significantly. Collections fell, as the Government and
enterprises continued to build up arrears to the Social Fund. At the same time, the number of social
recipients increased due to large lay offs, changes in actual social payments, and the general deterioration
- 2 -



in living standards.
While there was initial progress in reforming the energy and agricultural sectors (supported by SAL I), by
1997 there was backsliding in market liberalization policies for agriculture, inadequate privatization of
state-owned agricultural enterprises, a serious reversal of sector policy with the changes in land reform
policies, and continued increases in energy sector debt. Mass privatization resulted in a formal transfer of
ownership for the majority of enterprises, but did not significantly improve corporate governance or bring
efficiency. The competitive environmnent remained grossly deficient, while corruption and governance
problems seriously damaged Moldova's ability to attract strategic foreign investment.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The SAL II was designed, in support of the Governments reform program, to create conditions necessary
for maintenance of macroeconomic stability, a resumption of growth, and an improvement in social
protection.  The objectives and supporting components, which did not change throughout project
implementation, where motivated as follows:
Objective 1. Restore financial discipline in the economy while protecting the poor, by: (a) reducing the
buildup of budgetary arrears through improved fiscal performance and budgetary management; (b)
restoring the fiscal viability of the PAYG pension system and improving fiscal viability of the current
system of social assistance; and (c) arresting the buildup of external energy-related arrears through
financial restructuring, demonopolization and privatization of the sector.
Objective 2. Lay the foundations for growth, by: (a) accelerating farm restructuring and land privatization
in agriculture; and (b) continuing the process of enterprise privatization, through accelerating cash
privatization, privatizing urban real estate, and completing the mass privatization program.
3.2 Revised Objective:
n/a
3.3 Original Components:
The original components, which were not changed throughout project implementation, were developed
around two broad objectives as described below:
Restoration of financial discipline while protecting the poor:   (a) fiscal performance and budget
management, (b) pension and social assistance reform, and (c) financial restructuring, demonopolization
and privatization of the energy sector.
Establish foundations for growth: (a) agricultural land privatization and farm restructuring, and (b)
enterprise privatization.
3.4 Revised Components:
n/a
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was well prepared and designed. Preparation was based on substantial ESW, such as a Public
Expenditure Review (1996), an Agricultural Sector Review (1995), as well as a nunber of other studies
and significant background work carried out through missions in agriculture, energy and private sector
-3-



development. Objectives and the components of the project were appropriate and consistent with enabling
the Government to continue and speed up the reform process. Project objectives and components, although
broad, where clear and realistic and were extensively discussed with the Government. They covered most
of the areas of structural improvement which were key for restoring economic growth, and accorded to a
reasonable sequence of reform. The project set ambitious targets in reforming agriculture and energy -
areas in which reform efforts had lagged. The emphasis on improving financial discipline and tightening of
fiscal policy was critical, considering the upward increase in budgetary arrears, the expansion of barter
transactions and netting out operations throughout the economy. The project focus on accelerating
privatization and launching cash privatization was appropriate as private sector growth was too slow and
many important parts of the economy wer. still state owned. The proposed pension reform was designed to
create a fair and affordable pension system, which would provide adequate support in old age for the whole
population, from both state and non-state pensions. The social assistance reform aimed at rationalizing
social expenditures and ensuring regular payments to all social benefits recipients, which was crucial to
securing support for stabilization and adjustment operations. The borrower showed a high level of
commitment to the project at the time of preparation as evinced by the extensive front-loading of the project
in the form of completed pre-Board conditions.
4. Achievement of Objective and Ouitputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
BACKGROUND
The SAL II program was intended to be implemented over two years and the funds disbursed in three
tranches upon the fulfillment by the Government of each set of tranche conditions. The implementation of
the second tranche actions, however, was delayed due to several reasons. The pre-election campaign and
related political uncertainties slowed down the reform process from late 1997 through early 1998.
Although the elections resulted in a pro-reform majority coalition in the Parliament and a strong executive
body, the efforts of the new Government in implementing and speeding-up the reform program were
overwhelmed by the regional financial crisis in the Fall of 1998. As a consequence, the situation
deteriorated rapidly; a significant reduction in revenue collections was registered and the national currency
depreciated considerably. Exports dropped by 24 percent and imports by 15.5 percent. The current
account deficit reached 20 percent of GDP, contributing, along with the depreciated exchange rate, to an
external debt to GDP ratio of over 85 percent. Facing an increasing debt burden, in January 1999, the
Government made a request to the Bank to cancel the third tranche of the credit/loan and to replace it with
a new operation on IDA terms only. In Jane 1999 the Bank Board approved the Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAC) designed to complete the reform programn started under SAL II, and deepen efforts with
regard to energy, agriculture and enterprise privatization, especially. As a result, many of the important
structural measures initiated under the SAL II were completed during the SAC implementation period.
Therefore, to the extent that the SAC represrnts a repackaging of the SAL II third tranche, achievements of
the SAL II program should not be considered without reference to accomplishments completed under the
SAC.
OUTCOME APPRAISAL
Overall, the SAI. II outcome on structural adjustment has been satisfactory. Despite short term setbacks,
the overall program was appropriately designed, and successful at helping to establish a foundation for
long-term reforms, as evinced by follow up successes through the SAC operation. Failure to achieve some
benchmarks can be explained partially by authorities' attitude regarding the pace of reform. Preoccupied
with political developments, the country's leadership relied increasingly on government borrowing and
- 4 -



payment arrears as a substitute for reform. Delay and inconsistency in program implementation added to
and prolonged the cost of adjustment. Program implementation and performance has been erratic, with
periods of program interruption and mixed compliance with the quantitative performance criteria. This
reflects, in large measure, periods of political instability and lack of cohesion. On the other hand, in the
context of the level of adjustment that Moldova is making, - economically, socially and politically -
progress achieved through the SAL II program represents a major step toward long run viability.
It is also necessary to mention that the Bank's assumptions about the extent of economic growth that could
be achieved in such a short period, giving the Moldova's miserable initial conditions (e.g., the huge terms
of trade shock it experienced with the breakup of the FSU), were perhaps too optimistic. It is now clear
that a sustainable growth could have been achieved only upon deep and immediate implementation of
long-term reforms, such as the complete privatization and restructuring of the real sector, elimination of
administrative, regulatory and other barriers to private sector development, improved governance, and
reformation of the public sector.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Macroeconomic sutstainabiitv. The primary objective of this component of the SAL II program was to
ensure the social and economic sustainability of fiscal adjustment through a better matching of expenditure
commitments to the actual revenues inflows. Improvement in revenue performance and rationalization of
expenditures together with strengthening of budgetary management should have led to gradual reduction of
budgetary arrears in the short run and to their complete elimination in the long run. A special emphasis
was put on the improvement of the financial discipline of local authorities by implementing a sequestering
mechanism developed by the Government.
Overall, progress in improving the budgetary payment discipline necessary to consolidate stabilization and
maintain creditworthiness was minimal early in the period of project implementation, but improved
somewhat after 1998 (see figure). The main objective of this component, that of reducing budgetary
arrears, was largely missed. While the cash fiscal deficit fell from 7.5 percent of GDP in 1997 to 3.0
percent of GDP in 1998, the commitment deficit increased significantly from 4.2 percent in 1997
Consolidated Budget Balance 1993-1999
40  --    ---~~~~~,.L--"--------
40 
g 30       '-
bs20
1  3    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
O 0
r  - - -Expenditures (cash)    - Expenditures (accrual)
Revenues
to 8.1 percent in 1998. The further accumulation of budgetary payment arrears could not be stopped:
general budgetary arrears (including Social Fund arrears), which equaled 8 percent of GDP in 1997,
reached 12 percent of GDP in 1998, and then declined slightly to 10 percent of GDP in 1999. The arrears
- 5 -



increase of MDL 740 million during 1993-1999, compares to a decrease by MDL 290 million in 1997.
While in 1997 the Government achieved sizable results in reducing arrears, most of the measures
undertaken were of a short-term nature. Accepting, to a large extent, contributions in kind and offset
operations in a continuation of past policies, the Government effectively continued to subsidize inefficient
enterprises and worsened financial discipline throughout the economy. The accumulation of arrears
intensified in the first half of 1998, due to a slowdown in the implementation of the reform program mainly
because of the parliamentary elections. After the elections, the Government began to implement real
expenditure rationalization measures, especially in health and education. Tough restrictions were imposed
on non-concessional external borrowing ar.d state guarantees. On the revenue side, actions were taken to
remove tax exemptions and to restrict barter and offset operations. An improvement in cash collections has
been achieved through the creation of a large taxpayer unit and the setting-up of fiscal posts along the
border with Transnistria. However, a complete elimination of the budgetary arrears phenomena could not
be achieved without a serious rationalization of budgetary expenditures, requiring structural reforms in
energy, social assistance, health care and education, among other public sector programs. Many of these
reforms have been delayed for too long and are only now being started through the health sector reform
program, and the public sector reform program more generally.
Box 1. Reduction of the Local Government Arrears
The local authorities have contributed significantly to the buildup of arrears. The Government
developed and committed to implemlent a mechanism to monitor and control the accumulation of
local government arrears as described below.
- Allocation of budgetary resources. on a disaggregated basis. Starting in 1997 expenditures are
budgeted by economic line item,
- Payment prioritization and arrears monitoring. For each administrative unit, five items of
expenditures are identified as payable on a priority basis: (a) wages, (b) Social Fund contributions, (c)
energy, (d) food and (e) medicine. According to the plan, arrears on these expenditure items were to
be monitored every month.
- Enforce a sequestering mechanismn. A sequestering mechanism was proposed to be applied in
case of arrears accumulation by the local governments. The Ministry of Finance was supposed to
deduct from the subsequent month's revenue allocation the equivalent amount of detected arrears. A
special find was to be created by the Idinistry to repay the arrears. However, this strategy was never
implemented; the treasury system was not able to track local arrears accumulation on a timely basis.
Not much progress has been made in impro- ing the financial discipline of local budgets (see Box 1). This
should not be surprising in the context of administrative territorial reform that culminated in the
consolidation of 44 Rayons into 12 Judets, but which still requires substantial development of institutional
capacity at the local level, and in particular establishment of a high quality local treasury system. At any
rate, the mechanism for arrears control has not been enforced - local budgets remain a significant
contributor to budgetary arrears; more than 7D% of the total budgetary are owed by the local budgets. The
implementation of the administrative and territorial reform, aimed at reducing the size of local governments
and raising their sense of responsibility, has rot yet brought the expected results. Some progress, however,
has been achieved toward extending the treasury system to the local governments, which is really the
critical first step toward improving the fiscal process at that level. The SAL II program also aimed at
enhancing domestic capacity for macro-economic analysis and policy formulation by establishing the
Center for Strategic Studies and Reforms (see Box 2).
-6 -



Box 2. The Center for Strategic Studies and Reforms
The Center for Strategic Studies and Reforms (CSSR) was set up as a non-governmental,
independent think-tank to enhance the Government capacity for analytical and forecasting needs.
It was assigned also to provide informational support to reforms by disseminating the information
about the reform measures proposed by the Government and to mobilize public opinion in order to
create an enabling environment for the reforms. In 1997 the Center developed a comprehensive
mid-term Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Moldova which was subsequently
approved by the Government. The Center continues to prepare a large number of macroeconomic
and sectoral studies in the monetary policy, banking sector and public finance, real sector, shadow
economy and corruption, social sector and others. On a regular basis the CSSR organizes
conferences and round table discussions with the participation of Government officials, donor
community, local and foreign experts, mass media. Nevertheless, the paying market for CSSR
output remains limited and its attempts to achieve self-sustainability remain fragile.
Pensions and social protection reforms. The main objective of this component was to reform the system
of pensions and social assistance to one that is financially viable and equitable. It intended to address these
issues both in the short-term, by reforming the Social Fund budget to enable it to make current payments to
pensioners on time, and in the long-term, by putting in place far reaching reform of the pension system.
Although important structural reforms have been launched in the social sphere, the financial viability of the
sector has not been restored. Some of the savings measures recommended by the Bank, like the reduction
of pensions to working pensioners and of merit pensions, have not been implemented. Expenditure
reduction measures that were undertaken, including cancellation of pension increases, elimination of
privileged pensions, and cuts in administrative expenditures, did not have a real impact on the financial
situation of the Social Fund. Over the entire period of project implementation, pension arrears stood at
approximately five months of pension payments liabilities. Almost half of current pensions and most
arrears were paid in kind. The Government commitment, stipulated in the Letter of Development Policy
(LDP), to consolidate and rationalize the system of social benefits in order to improve the overall efficiency
of expenditures and improving targeting through focus on vulnerable groups, has only partially been
fulfilled. However, as indicated in the Poverty Assessment completed by the Bank in 1999, Moldova's
poverty profile makes effective targeting extremely difficult.
Important results have been achieved with respect-to the long-term objectives of the SAL II program. After
a long (several years) and difficult political dialog, Moldovan authorities have embarked on a
comprehensive reform of the pension system, developed with the Bank's assistance. The first step was
taken in November 1998 by approving a Law on state pensions which introduces a direct linkage between
individuals contributions and benefits, an increase in the retirement age and elimination of privileges. The
new law also introduces incentives for individuals to work and contribute longer, and therefore improves
the long-term sustainability of the system. The Social Protection Management project (SPM), which was
approved by the World Bank Board of Directors in June, 1999, continues to support implementation of the
public pension reform framework by seeking improvements in the general administration of pensions, and
by covering the speed and efficiency of the provision of pensions. In addition to reform of the publicly
funded pension system, on March 25th, 1999 the Parliament approved a law on non-state pension funds
that provides the development of two types of private pension funds, "open" funds to which anyone could
contribute, and "closed" funds that would be enterprise specific. Implementation of the law, however, is
delayed pending the adoption implementing regulations and of the establishment of a regulatory body.
Eneruv reforms. The primary objective of this component was to restore the financial equilibrium of the
energy sector and stop the build-up of energy-related external debt, as well as improve the quality of energy
- 7 -



services for consumers. This was to be achieved through irnproving financial accountability, pricing and
collections in the short run, and through de-monopolizing and privatizing the sector in the long run.
The financial viability of the sector had to be restored by setting and maintaining energy prices and tariffs
at cost recovery levels, improving coll ,ctions, eliminating cross subsidies and rationalizing energy
privileges provided to a large part of population. All of these measures were also pre-requisites to
privatization of energy companies to strategic investors, which is also considered a key part of the solution.
To meet these objectives, the Govemrnent adopted in 1997 a comprehensive Debt Management Plan, which
called for price adjustments, improvements in payment collections, the write-off of un-collectable
receivables, mutual payment cancellations and the repayment of all debts. The plan was implemented, but
only partially.
The most important outcome under the plan was the adjustment of tariffs. Tariffs have been increased
several times and are largely in line with costs, although partially still offset by subsidies to households.
Also, the structure of the tariffs has been improved and cross subsidies have been eliminated for all kind of
energy. Nevertheless, the financial situation of the sector did not improve. The inefficient state-run energy
enterprises continued to accumulate heavy losses, especially as the ability of consumers (enterprises,
households and public institutions) to pay deteriorated with incomes, budget revenues and with the
depreciation of the exchange rate. The levcl of collections, especially of cash collections continued to be
very low. In 1998, the cash collections of both the electricity and gas sectors was less than 30 percent.
The settlement of arrears with external suppliers, mainly RAO Gazprom and Ukraine, did not happen.
Although in 1997 the Government assumed a big portion of sector's debts to RAO Gazprom, the
subsequent continued accumulation of extenial energy-related arrears further endangered Moldova's energy
security and contributed to an increase in public debt. Arrears continued to increase due in large part to
non-payment by fiscally strapped budgetary institutions, especially at the local level (overdue payments
from the central and local budgets alone amounted to 68.3 million lei by the end of 1998), and the inability
of large consumers to pay their bills in cash. On the other hand, dis-connections for nonpayment turned out
to be difficult to implement (due, in part, to the decision-maker's unwillingness to take such decisions, as
well as to the paucity of meters and othe:- technical means to limit consumption). Also, the lack of
commitment by sector management to improve the situation and insufficient efforts by the Government to
improve transparency undermined the achievement of set objectives.  SAL II supervision missions
highlighted this problem, and a partial solution was eventually put in place with support of the SAC
operation through the signing of perfonmance contracts with energy company managers.
The fnancial situation of the sector has beer. also affected for a long time by a broad, ill-targeted subsidy
scheme (see Box 3). The Govemment committed to reform the energy subsidy system by the first half of
1998. However, real measures were undertaken only starting with 1999, during the implementation of the
SAC program. In April 2000, Parliament approved a new privilege law which combines the abolition of
the old privileges and approval of a category-based scheme intended to cover what are presumed to be the
poorest and most vulnerable segments of population. The program is designed to be maintained within a
range affordable to the budget, and consists of direct payments for discounts of the consumption of heat,
gas, water and electricity. The new system requires also the' complete elimination of all the remaining
compensations and privileges established by the President or the Government. However, the scheme has
not been made effective. Although significant progress towards rationalizing the system has been achieved,
the problem, raised already by the SAL I program, has not been addressed completely and continues to be
an important fiscal problem and a serious impediment to the privatization process.
-8 -



Box 3. Moldova's Energy subsidy system
Like other former Soviet republics, Moldova has preserved a large, ill-targeted system of
subsidies for energy consumption consisting of "privileges" and "compensations". Most privileges
were introduced during the Soviet era. The original concept of the system was to reward certain
segments of population for service of some kind, and later, to compensate for injuries or suffering
(e.g., Chernobyl) through the provision of no-cost or low-cost energy, rather than to protect low-
income households. In addition to the numerous categories inherited from the Soviet Union,
independent Moldova created some categories of privileged consumers of relevance to its post-
Soviet history. By 1999, privileges were extended to some 37 categories, and were enjoyed by
almost half a million Moldovans. Following the significant increase in tariffs in 1997, the
Government introduced compensations, which, at least in theory, were targeted at poor customers
with per capita incomes of 150 lei a month or less. However, the identification of beneficiaries
and control of funds spent has proven to be very difficult due to the absence of a reliable income
certification process.
As a result, the total cost of the system increased significantly and reached about 3 percent of
GDP in 1999. Although officially the system was not rationalized, the budget has been
committing only partially to these expenditures. The difference between the total cost of subsidies
(calculated on the basis of entitlements granted to individuals) and the funds provided in the
budget in 1999, amounted to 170 million lei, or 45% of the total cost. Moreover, the budget does
not make even the committed payments, with payments to the energy suppliers based on the
available budgetary resources rather than on the real costs incurred by them. Therefore the system
affects significantly the financial situation of the energy suppliers and at the same time does not
provide the most needy consumers with the necessary support.
However, substantial progress has been made in establishing the main elements of the legal and regulatory
framework for de-monopolization and privatization of the energy sector. In November 1997, the electricity
supply state monopoly - Moldenergo - was restructured into 14 joint stock corporations (3 generation, 5
distribution and 6 other construction and heat companies) and a state enterprise responsible for
transmission and dispatch. A privatization concept for the electricity sector and individual privatization
plans for the electricity generation and distribution companies, consistent with privatization principles
agreed under SAL II, were approved by Parliament in 1998. Electricity and Gas Laws which transformed
the National Energy Regulatory Agency (ANRE) into an independent non-governmental agency, were
approved in September 1998 and licenses to all new energy market operators have been issued by the new
regulatory body.
The Government finished restructuring, commercialization and privatization of the gas industry by
completing in 1999 the establishment of the Moldovagaz joint stock company with a controlling majority of
shares owned by RAO Gazprom. Although originally the gas distribution company was to be sold to a
strategic investor through an international tender, the Government opted in favor of a debt-for-equity swap
with RAO Gazprom. The transaction, however, did not bring the expected results. Although the State
holds only 35 percent of shares in the company, it continues to take responsibility as de facto guarantor of
gas imports. It also continues to act as a responsible party to the accumulation of energy debts and to
negotiate the gas supply on behalf of both private and public consumers. The assumption that Gazprom, as
the main shareholder of the new distribution company, would take the responsibility for collections and
would treat each customer individually, has not yet been realized. At this point it is still unclear whether
RAO Gazprom will seize this responsibility and whether it will succeed in improving collections; Gazprom
appears to have limited capacity to deal with gas distribution in Moldova, as evinced by nonpayment
problems it continues to struggle with in Russia. The Govemment has now announced its intention to
completely withdraw from the gas sector by selling its remaining 35 percent of shares to a strategic
-9-



investor. However, prospects for a strategic investor to take on less than a controlling block of shares are
not good; a market test should have been (lone when the State was holding the majority of shares. In the
meantime, veiy poor payment performance has led to dis-connections from gas of the whole country, and
assumption by the Government of other US$90 million of energy debt. It is now expected, however, that
further assumption by the State of gas-related debts should be eliminated, as these debts are now be of a
majority owned private company.
Overall, the project has achieved good results in de-monopolizing and preparing the sector for privatization
as well as establishing a competent regulatDry agency, which inspires confidence in future actions and in
the successful completion of the sector's reformation. Also, the positive impact of ANRE's success as a
credible, independent regulator on the potential establishment of other needed regulatory bodies (e.g.,
telecom) should not be underestimated. Still, the short-term objectives aimed at inducing fnancial
discipline in the sector, eliminating corrupted practices (barter transactions) and reducing losses have not
been fully successful. This led to a significant deterioration of the sector and to a very poor quality of
rendered energy services, which carries with it a number of collateral negative connotations. In particular,
the ever-present threat of Moldova's being cut from its gas supply, creates political uncertainty, which at
times appears to have stood in the way of policy reform, and certainly reduces Moldova's attractiveness for
both foreign and domestic investment in productive activity, particularly those that require a dependable
energy supply.
ALricultural reforms. The primary objective of the agricultural component of the project was to lay the
foundations for agricultural growth, through restructuring farns, creating a viable market for land, and
ensuring that the environment under which agricultural activity occurs is flexible and market-friendly.
The acceleration of the farm restructuring process and land privatization was achieved by improving exit
and registration procedures for establishment of private farms, reviewing ongoing farm restructuring pilot
projects and organizing the dissemination of these experiences. The Government committed to restructure
125 large-scale farms based on full privatization of land, i.e. physically identified land plots for each
beneficiary with individual titles. In general, the progress on farm restructuring has been good, due in large
part to the support provided by USAID towaird implementing of the National Land Program. By the time
of second tranche release, 141 farms had been restructured, of which 74 pilot farms had undergone the
completed process, including titling. A further 67 farms were broken down and fully dismantled without
outside assistance, but titling had not been completed on these farms. In early 1998, the process slowed
down due to the absence of a legal frameworlk for extending the pilot experience to the entire country, and
lack of a Government decision to establish a procedure to expedite settlement of debts encountered by
farms undergoing restructuring. After long debate, in May 1999, the Parliament approved the Law on
Restructuring of Farms Undergoing Privatization. The debt resolution program envisaged by the Law aims
at clearing farm debts to the state and to private creditors (see Box 4). This had a crucially positive impact
on the restructuring process which would make possible the completion of the National Land Program in
less than two years. By June 2000, with continued support of the SAC program, 888 farms have entered
the privatization program and 539 farms have been fully liquidated.
- 10 -



Box 4. Moldova's Agricultural Debt Resolution Program
The goals of the Debt Resolution Program are to resolve historical and current debt and
completely liquidate 888 collective farms and give the new private farms the opportunity to start
debt free. According to the law on restructuring of farms undergoing privatization, the state takes
over all the farms' historical debt to private creditors that were claimed within one month from the
official notification of farm liquidation and becomes the farm's only creditor in the historical part of
debts. Repayment by the state of historical farm debts to private creditors are carried out by the
Ministry of Finance in equal installments over a five year period through offsetting of all kinds of
payments to the state and local budgets accrued on each creditor with residual liabilities qualifying
for tax credits spread over a 5 year period. The farms' historical debt to the state (both initial and
transferred) is offset mainly with social assets by transferring them to the local authorities. If assets
are insufficient the remaining debt is written-off. The farms' current debt is either, (a) repaid, (b)
offset with assets through negotiations with creditors, (c) ceded (together with an equivalent amount
of assets) to new entrepreneurs, or (d) written off. Any remaining property is distributed to entitled
persons and the old collective farm is completely liquidated.
The Government has made sizable progress in developing the land and real estate markets by establishing
the legal basis for land tradability, removing lease controls on private land, eliminating the five years
moratorium on the resale of agricultural land, lowering the taxes on land transactions, and removing some
of the bureaucratic and administrative obstacles. The Government has started implementation of a national
unified real estate registration program for urban and rural land, thereby establishing a system of a clear
and enforceable ownership rights, to promote the privatization of land and the development of real estate
markets. Land titling under a unified parcel basis was completed for 6 percent by April 1999 and 40
percent by April 2000 of private beneficiaries of land reform. The land transaction fee was reduced from 5
to 1 percent for all first land transactions and a maximum of 2 percent for any re-sales. Unfortunately,
despite all of these efforts the number of registered land transactions remains low, indicating a slow path of
land consolidation process. A new system of public procurement, including procurement of grains, was put
in place in 1997.
A study on agricultural taxation and subsidies was completed in March 1998. The major conclusions of
the review that were also incorporated in the 1999 budget were: maintenance of land tax as the primary
form of taxing primary agriculture; replacement of the collection of taxes in kind by cash payments;
elimination of state guarantees for any credits to agricultural enterprises; cancellation of non-cash support
through procurement and price support for grain and milk; reduction of the 1998 level of the irrigation
subsidy by 50%; and cancellation of subsidies to milk production. Indirect subsidies to farms have been
replaced with a one time only, direct cash grant to each new private farmer. The first installment of these
grants was carried out in the Summer and Fall of 1999, with support from the SAC operation, which both
helped private farmers pay for critical inputs, and also acted as a clear signal from the Government that it
was intent on providing support for only private farmers. This led to a much needed boost and acceleration
of the National Land Program overall.
Although some efforts to liberalize the grain and input market have been made, the State still retains an
ownership stake in some storage and processing operations (associated with the State Reserve). The
Government committed to complete by mid-98 the privatization of the two former state monopolies
Fertilitate and Cereale. However, it wasn't until May 1999, during preparation of the SAC program, that 6
Fertilitate and 14 Cereale units were finally included in the Privatization Program. By the time of SAL II
project completion, only one Fertilitate unit had been sold. The Government's reluctance to privatize the
sector led to a significant deterioration of the financial situation of these companies and made privatization
difficult. However, as of April 2000 under a SAC supported program, the Government did manage to sell
- 11 -



9 Cereale units and complete the sale of the Fertilitate.
As mentioned above, the Borrower has made good progress in farm restructuring and land privatization
compared to the rest of the CIS countries. However, even in Moldova, the Government procrastinated on
land reform until the collective farms had largely collapsed along with the state run credit and agricultural
processing/marketing systems that sustained them. This initial condition left few sequencing options
available by the time of SAL II; the difficult process of bringing Moldovan agriculture to a sustainable
market basis had to be undertaken. The result over the short run has been that land redistribution has not
yet produced an increase, in agricultural output, and a large group of subsistence farmers (falling to this
state under the collectives) remain de-link-ed from the market system. At the same time, the emerging
private agro-businesses faces huge difficulties related to land consolidation, shortage of financial resources,
limited access to credits, lack of export markets, limited access to inputs and services and poor managerial
skills. A strong post-privatization support is now urgently needed to facilitate land consolidation and to
generate effective farms. Fortunately, help is coming in the form of a World Bank Market Access and
Rural Services project (MARS), which is currently at advance stage of preparation. However, the time
between privatization and the effectiveness of the agricultural support effort is proving to be a particularly
difficult period for newly private farmners, arid is thus testing the level of social and political commitment to
the privatization movement.
If one analyzes the strengthens and weaknesses of the privatization process in agriculture, it remains
unclear whether this was the most optimal design to be followed. Certainly it was a path-breaking reform
in the region, with more positive aspects than negative. And given that a non-reversible action was needed,
and in the context of limited available implementation resources, it appears that the sequencing that was
followed was a necessary second best. Having that stated, it is also clear that the process will take much
longer to reach fruition through robust agricultural growth than originally envisaged. In particular, the
lower portions of the J-curve will be longer felt than expected due to the slow process of incipient land
consolidation through market forces, and the lack of markets, market know-how and market information.
Additionally crippling is the absence of viable/affordable means to finance inputs available to small private
farmers. As a result, individual farmers have largely turned to subsistence farming, with no end of this
situation in clear sight. Certainly, similar operations in other countries will benefit from Moldova's
experience in this area. Toward this end, a regional seminar is being hosted in Chisinau, jointly by the
Moldovan Ministry of Agriculture and the WVorld Bank (June 2000), to examine the issue in more detail
and to disseminate the lessons learned.
The privatization and restructuring of the agro-processing enterprises is also a necessary component of the
sector growth, but it was not addressed specifically by the SAL II project. This can be viewed as a
weakness, given the severe lack of such processors in Moldova, and the perishable nature of agricultural
production. Nevertheless, some progress was achieved in de-monopolizing and privatizing the sector, and
efforts are being made to improve the poor investment climate in order to attract a higher level of capital
inflow for the effective restructuring and growth of these enterprises.
Privatizatio.L The primary objective of this component was to lay the basis for growth in industry and
services by privatizing small, medium and large enterprises and creating a land market, both prerequisites
for them to function effectively.
Overall, satisfactory progress has been made :n speeding up the cash privatization through improving the
legal framework, promoting more aggressive sale, reducing the normative price of land, and improving the
terms of payment to encourage investments. The second tranche target on urban real estate privatization
was met: 677 land plots under privatized enterprises (35 % of the identified land plots) and 500 leased
- 12 -



premises (25% of the total leased premises) have been sold. To fulfill this condition the Borrower reduced
significantly the normative price of land. It also lowered the prices for leased premises and improved the
terms of payment. However, most of the land plots were sold to small enterprises (with a land area under
0.5 ha). The privatization of adjacent land by medium and large enterprises remains a serious issue
because, (a) they are traditionally located on large tracts of land, (b) the normative price of land is still
relatively high (particularly relative to rents paid to municipalities), and (c) the firms themselves face
serious financial difficulties. In this case it is not surprising that they cannot afford lump sum purchases of
land.
The privatization of medium and large scale enterprises for cash and to strategic investors was defined as
another important project goal. The Borrower committed to adopt and satisfactorily implement a
comprehensive privatization program, that would include medium and large enterprises left out of the
previous privatization program, as well as to privatize infrastructure enterprises, including energy and
telecom companies. The overall implementation of the 1997/98 Privatization Program (PP) is considered
satisfactorily. Out of 1042 entities put for sale, 305 were sold for a total amount of MDL 247.4 million.
The controlling block of shares in 14 medium and large joint stock companies (JSCs) was sold. To
complete the mass privatization program, the Government sold residual state shares in 589 JSCs.
However, unrealistic prices and cumbersome, and in some cases non-transparent, procedures meant that
cash privatization proceeded slowly until the second half of 1998, when the process began to accelerate.
The Government did not fulfill its commitment to include in the 1997/98 PP all the entities agreed with the
Bank. The first version of the Program did not include all wine combinats, Fertilitate and Cereale units. It
was a full two years after the Board date of SAL II when the program was amended to include them. Also,
the Government has not succeeded to create an environment sufficient to bring in the needed level of foreign
investment. The interest of foreign investors has been relatively low, for a number of reasons including, the
negative impact of the Government's cancellation of some tenders (tobacco and cement in 1998), the
methods of privatization used, the level of political and macroeconomic instability, continued harassment of
all kinds of private entrepreneurs by state administrations and tax bodies, and the general financial situation
of companies offered for sale.
While the objectives undertaken under the SAL II were satisfactorily met, the privatization program
supported by SAL II could have been more aggressive. It did not support the privatization of Moldtelecom,
which has been put for sale twice, both attempts ending unsuccessfully. The program has left out the
privatization of many large inefficient industrial enterprises, like the large state owned wineries and tobacco
concerns, nor large military-industrial and other companies such as Topaz, Mezon, Vibropribor, Micron,
Raut, Agromecanica Chisinau, and Moldcarton. The postponement of these privatizations led to a further
deterioration of the enterprises' assets and a significant depreciation of their capacities. Also, the program
perhaps should have addressed the slow progress in liquidation and bankruptcy through improvements of
the legal framework for, and the facility to implement bankruptcies, liquidation and restructuring. Also,
given the country's high relative dependence on agriculture and agricultural exports, which are highly
vulnerable to weather shocks as well as the financial position of regional trading partners, a stronger
emphasis should have been made on the development of light and heavy industries, as well as textiles and
other sectors that could have reduced the vulnerability of the economy.to the natural calamities, exchange
rate and world prices fluctuations.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
n/a
4.4 Financial rate of return:
n/a
- 13-



4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project was not- strongly focused on institutional development, and for this reason its overall impact on
institutional development was marginal. Hlowever, the project was extremely successful in creating the two
institutions on which it focused: the Center for Strategic Studies and Reforms (CSSR), and the National
Agency for the Regulation of Energy (ANRE).
CSSR was set up as a non-governmental, independent think-tank to enhance the Government capacity in
analytics and forecasting. It was designed to provide support for reforms by disseminating information
about reform measures and to mobilize public opinion in order to create an enabling environment for their
undertaking. In 1997, the Center developed a comprehensive mid-term "Strategy for the Development of
the Republic of Moldova", which was subsequently approved by the Government. CSSR continues to
prepare a large number of macroeconomic and sector studies on monetary policy, banking, fnance, real
sector activity, shadow economy and coiruption, social sector reform, and others. On a regular basis
CSSR organizes conferences and round table discussions with the participation of Govermnent officials,
the donor community, local and foreign experts and mass media.
ANRE was established to regulate the electricity sector in preparation of its restructuring and privatization.
With the support of significant technical assistance financed by USAID in coordination with the SAL II
project, ANRE has evolved into a highly effective regulator. For example, tariffs were brought to full cost
recovery levels for all energy sub-sectors by December, 1998, and under guidance of ANRE, the
Department of Privatization successfully scld three of Moldova's five distribution companies to a strategic
foreign investor in early 2000.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Implementation of SAL II project was held up by Parliamentary elections in early 1998. During the
pre-election period, which started immediately after the project became effective, Parliament was reluctant
to take un-popular decisions, like the approval of the pension age increase, the elirnination of energy
privileges and compensations, and privatization of the agricultural sector. The elections and formation of
the new Government led to a further delay in project implementation. As mentioned above, the Russia
crisis had a serious impact on project implementation, and particularly the project's outcome.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
In many cases shortfalls in delivery depended completely on the Government. Delays in implementation of
the program are the most important of these shortfalls. For example, the Government entertained long
discussions around ANRE's proposals to increase energy tariffs and to eliminate energy subsidies, it
remains unwilling to privatize strategic enterprises, and it was passive in selling Cereale and Fertilitate
units. The Government was also reluctant tc' transfer collection functions for Social Fund contributions to
the Tax Inspectorate. In fact, some of the critical reforms were taken only when the fiscal situation
worsened considerably. Many reforms have been implemented only partially. Weak institutions and lack
of experience also hampered implementation of agreed program.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
nla
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
- 14 -



The total cost of the project was US$ 100 million equivalent, of which SDR 33 million was the IDA credit
and US$ 45 million - IBRD loan. There was co-financing for the SAL II project of twelve million Dutch
Guilders (equivalent to US$ 5.78 million) from the Government of Netherlands. The SAL II was approved
by the Board on September 9, 1997 and was made effective on October 17, 1997. The closing date for the
Credit/Loan is December 31, 2000.
The first tranche of SDR 25.4 million (US$ 35 million) was disbursed upon effectiveness on October 17,
1997. However, while it had been anticipated that the second tranche conditions would be met by June
1998, some of these conditions were met only by April 1999. The second tranche of SDR 7.2 million and
US$ 25 million (US$35 million equivalent) was disbursed in May 1999. Given Moldova's increasing debt
servicing difficulties, the Government has requested that the third tranche, which was to be on IBRD terms,
be canceled. A new adjustment credit (the Structural Adjustment Credit) was approved in June of 1999 to
implement the outstanding policy objectives supported by the third tranche of the SAL II and to advance
other related policy objectives.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the reforms initiated under the SAL II is likely, although they will not go without
challenge. Stabilization remains fragile and growth prospects are limited in the face of high levels of
structural unemployment, budgetary arrears, burdensome debt service and the slow pace of structural
reforms. The continued deterioration of GDP, purchasing power, human capital, and living standards
threaten to erode the will of policy-makers and reduce popular support for the program. These factors
contribute to the high level of political instability which characterizes Moldova today. Further continuation
of reforms depends on the Governments capacity to deepen the understanding of the need for refonn and to
build a strong political consensus.
After the Parliamentary elections of 1998, the reform program received strong backing from the
Government, and an improved degree of popular support. Since then the program has survived three
Governments, and continues to receive a relatively favorable degree of popular support. More recently
however, the reform coalition in Parliament broke down over issues which were initiated through the SAL
II program, and a Presidential election scheduled in the last quarter of CY2000 creates additional
uncertainty. However, it has become generally acceptable, even by many traditional opponents of the
reform process, that actions initiated under the SAL II program are the only way forward in Moldova.
Actions taken under the SAL II program are virtually non-reversible and will have long felt positive effect
on Moldova. The National Land Program has freed farmers from the burden of inefficient cooperative and
state farms, and promises to be a substantial contributor to reducing poverty in rural Moldova. Land
tradability and private sector incentives are slowly beginning to provide the key impetus for land
consolidation and improved productivity. With carefully structured support for agricultural services and
market development and a consistently liberal agricultural policy (as established through the SAL II and
strengthened through the SAC, but not consistently implemented), Moldova can experience substantial
rural growth. The energy program has already seen substantial results. The establishment of ANRE has
been highly successful, not only at rationalizing and balancing tariffs of the energy sector, but also as a
lead example to the Country of the potentially positive benefits of a well designed and implemented
regulatory agency and framework, which places a minimum burden on the private sector, protects
customers and injects transparency into the system. The energy sector privatization program continues to
experience success. Albeit with an as yet unclear outcome, a controlling block of shares of MoldovaGaz
has been transferred to RAO Gazprom. More recently, three of the five power distribution companies were
- 15-



sold to Union Fenosa of Spain, which committed to substantial investment in the system and has indicated a
strong interest in buying other Moldovan uti lities. Tariffs have been increased and maintained at full cost
recovery levels since December, 1998, and there appears to be popular recognition, if not compliance, that
energy suppliers have full rights strive for fiull cost recovery and payment. With regard to the enterprise
privatization program, sale of enterprises and land have substantially freed up resources for more
productive uses. Some private sector success stories have emerged which are having important multiplier
effects on firm behavior throughout Moldova.
The Moldova Authorities are continue to exhibit a commitment to working with the Bank, but to exhibit a
mixed commitment to a deepening of the reforms.  While there is a high level of interest from the
Government, the Presidential Administration has adopted a conservative stance towards some elements of
the reform program, and Parliament is clearly divided on the core reform issues. The Government has
expressed an interest specifically in public sector reform, with special emphasis on public administration
reform and anti-corruption, agricultural development through service provision and improved credit
availability, a continuation of privatization - especially the power and heating sectors, water and telecom,
and for assistance in making efficiency improvements in the energy sector. While ever-present short term
interests will continue to challenge reform in Moldova, the desire of the Authorities and the population to
move forward, based on the significant progr.ss already achieved (much of which is all but irreversible),
will likely continue to outweigh conservative fDrces.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations,:
n/a
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank staff were effective in identifying the policy areas where reforms were most critical, developing
informative and complete project documentation, and monitoring the complete implementation of all
pre-Board conditions. The project benefited. from 81 staff-weeks of project preparation. The project
objectives are consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank staff were perceived as competent and professional, even while resistance from some parts of the
Government made progress difficult. The Bank effectively and closely monitored implementation of the
policy measures specified in the project. Supervision missions were effective and well documented, and
reporting was widely distributed. The project benefited from 181 staff weeks of supervision activities.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's performance overall was satisfactoiy. The project was focused on the key issues of transition
facing Moldova. In particular, it was designed to create foundations for long run viability and growth,
while maintaining a clear focus on poverty alleviation. Operationally, its design was realistic; had there
been a constant and aggressive application of the reform program by the Authorities, the project would
likely have achieved all of its objectives.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower preparations were satisfactory. Prior to Board presentation the Borrower showed a high level of
- 16 -



proactivity and commitment to the project. This was evinced by significant policy action taken by the
Authorities prior to Board presentation, and subsequent follow up on policy actions after Board approval.
Some of the key measures taken prior to Board presentation are as follows: (a) adoption of a realistic 1997
budget which included elimination of several VAT exemptions and a realignment of excise taxes, (b)
preparation of a plan for debt management of energy debts and arrears, (c) established a national energy
regulatory agency, (d) adopted a law on nominative prices for land and land tradability, and (e) approved a
comprehensive privatization program for the years, 1997 and 1999.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance was marginally satisfactory. For the most part, Government
ownership of the reform program was real and reform goals were met. However, progress in reaching the
goals was noticeably slower than expected, which increased the cost of the transformation and reduced the
net positive effect the output. In short, Borrower's performance was stop and go. A long period of political
stasis accompanied the lead-up to the Parliamentary elections in early 1998. After the elections, starting in
June 1998, significant policy performance was achieved, but this was then undermined by the difficult
economic climate following the regional financial crisis in the Fall of 1998. As a result, the second tranche
was released one year later than expected.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
n/a
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory. Given the extensive actions necessary on the part of the
Borrower to prepare and implement the project, completion of the key objectives is a good overall
indication of the Borrower's commitment and performance. Through the project, significant progress was
achieved with regard to controlling budget commitments, particularly in the energy sector. Progress made
improving the pension and social protection system cleared the way for Board approval of the Social
Protection Management Project (June, 1999), as well as progress toward rationalization of the privileges
system and a further streamlining of social protection expenditures subsequent to project completion. The
land privatization program, which was developed and initiated through the project, has continued to be
implemented and will eventually cover almost 90% of all former collective and state farns. Also,
enterprise privatization, including in the energy sector, was satisfactorily implemented during the project
and maintained and then increased momentum after project completion. In sum, the Borrower showed a
real commitment to the originally designed reform program, and made significant progress toward meeting
project objectives. Perhaps more importantly, the Borrower was able to establish a strong foundation for
moving forward along the reform path during and after the project completion.
8. Lessons Learned
The definition of project objectives was ambitious and the Bank could have been more realistic as to the
level of adjustment that Moldova was being forced to make and how quickly growth would be restored. A
more realistic forecast of Moldova's recovery could have led to a design which better addresses the
longer-term and deeper-structural nature of the problems in Moldova. Recent academic work shows that
both economic and policy outcomes are endogenous to initial conditions (e.g., "Circumstance and Choice:
The Role of Initial Conditions and Policies in Transition Economies" by Martha de Melo Cevdet Denizer,
Alan Gelb and Stoyan Tenev in World Bank Working Paper, No. 1866, December, 1997).
- 17 -



*   Extended delays in implementing the agreed measures led to a significant reduction of program
effectiveness. For countries, such as Moldova, which are intensely resource constrained, the Bank
should use all tools available to control implementation time and to insist on completion of all
conditions to the greatest extent possible. Front-loading conditionality, via pre-Board conditions and/or
single tranche operations, is perhaps a way to avoid policy stasis.
*   Despite the success of the National Land Program with support of USAID, in general the Government
does not exhibit a high ability to coordinate foreign assistance. In such cases the Bank should both
strive to better coordinate with donors on its own, and provide assistance to help the Government
improve its own ability to coordinate donors.
*   Improved public expenditure management requires fundamental changes in the Government's range of
commitments.  Efforts based on attemrpts to control expenditures from  only an administrative
perspective will have limited success. Underlying structural reforms necessary to reduce commitments
require identification of priorities, decision-taking, and implementation.
*   Although path-breaking, the agricultural privatization program has not yet led to a highly productive
agricultural sector. Rather it has tended to provide a means of subsistence for rural Moldovans. In
order to consolidate on past efforts, it is now critical in Moldova that post-privatization support is
rendered through operations, such as the Market Access and Rural Services Project and the Rural
Finance Project, which will encourage land consolidation, reduce the shortage of financial resources,
increase access to credit, help develop export markets, improve access to inputs and services and build
managerial skills of Moldovan farmers. For other Countries considering the same path, a greater focus
early in the privatization process, on post-privatization market development and support, should help to
reduce the costs of transition overall, and contribute more quickly to an upswing in agricultural
production and the development of rural wealth.
*   The privatization program was not sufficiently deep, largely due to lack of political willingness to
touch some industries which were deemed "jewels" of the State. The results has been that a significant
portion of Moldova's productive capacity remains in State ownership and control, while almost
invariably the financial viability of these companies continues to deteriorate. This has placed a burden
on the economy through a continuation of soft budget constraints, by under-employment of human
capital, and by keeping other assets from more productive uses. In most cases, it has also left the
companies in question undesirable to strategic investors. The broad lesson here is that delays in
privatization of attractive state enterprises. even in the fact of strong political opposition, should be
avoided if at all possible.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency.
The project
The Credit/Loan Agreement on the Second Structural Adjustment Project in the amount of US$100
million was signed on October 3rd, 1997. Its priority objectives were the resumption of economic growth
and improvement of living standards in Mo:'dova. The project was initiated at the request of the
Government of Moldova to address the deepening crisis suffered by the country.
The project intended to achieve its main objectives through the implementation of crucial reforms,
particularly (i) improvement of the fiscal discipline, (ii) privatization of the energy sector, (iii) acceleration
- 18-



of the reforms and land privatization, (iv) pension system reform, and (v) finalization of the privatization
process for small enterprises.
Although the main objective, that of enhancing economic growth, has not been fulfilled, the project
resulted in implementation of initial reforms in the agricultural and energy sectors, strengthened economic
and price stability, and served as foundation for further implementation of the reform process in these key
sectors of the national economy.
The Project and the Government Strategy
The project objectives and, very importantly, the dynamics that it generated, were in line with the
country's strategy which emphasizes growth through more private sector activities, and improvements in
the living conditions of the population through the generation of growth and jobs, reduction of inflation, and
better allocation of public resources.
Key Lessons learned by Government from the Implementation of SAL II
The Government acknowledges some important achievements in the implementation of this project:
Positive Results
*   A framework for adjustment has been initiated in Moldova. The need for reform is acknowledged and
generally accepted by the civil and political society. This framework provides a good basis for donor
support which was increasingly materialized during the time in which the project was under
implementation.
*   The project provided a good framework for speeding up the land reform process, a crucial part of the
overall reform program.
*   The project provided a good framework for initiation of the privatization process and for making
efficiency adjustments in the energy sector. This process is continuing, and based on actions taken
through the SAC, the energy privatization and rationalization process is now deepening.
*   The need for regulatory policies in areas such as electricity, telecommunications and others became
evident, and the Government, with external assistance, started the process of creating the important
institutional framework and regulatory agencies.
*   The potential and need for rationalization of expenditures and public sector reforms were manifested
during the implementation of this project. The Government is cornmitted to addressing this need and
bringing this potential a full realization.
Weaknesses in the SAL II implementation
*   While the financial/banking sector did experienced important institutional improvements, the
real sector of the economy, particularly the agricultural sector, did not receive the necessary
support for a positive supply response.
*   As mentioned above, a supply response, particularly in agriculture, was not at the desired level.
As a result, poverty is still widespread in the countryside. It is fully recognized, however, that
poverty is even worse in those areas in which no reforms were undertaken.
*   The privatization of Moldovagas was not done in a way that solved the issue in the sector. The
public sector still controls a sizable part of the company, on the one hand, but third interests,
not subject to enough regulations and rules of Governance, control the majority. This is a
- 19 -



typical case in which the way privatization proceeded did not lead to the structural solution of
the sectoral problems.
*   Financial discipline was not fully established with respect either to the budget, or to payments
in the sphere of salaries and pensions. Financial liabilities (budget arrears) persisted during the
entire period of project implementation. Arrears in salaries and pensions was a negative factor
in increasing poverty in Moldova.
*   The collection of payments for energy corsumnption represented a major problem which
aggravated the energy problems, particularly before the privatization of electricity started.
While we acknowledge these weaknesses and are committed to overcome them, we
would like to mention the fact that sorme extemal factors, beyond the control of Moldova,
contributed to them, particularly the regional financial crisis. We are also aware that some
decisions were postponed due to the Parliamentary elections in 1998. Finally changes in
Government may have also had some impiact as they affected the initial market perception and
speed in which decisions were taken.
Specific SAL II supported sectoral measures
Social sector
- Measures were undertaken to insure the fmancial viability of the Social Fund by reducing
payments to employed pensioners and cutting back privileges. Also pension increases were
canceled in order to make savings to pay off pension debts.
- A legal framework for implementation cf the new pension system was established, based on
formation of a public pension system, which would be complemented by non-state pension
funds.
Energy sector
- A legal framework was created for the privatization of the energy sector enterprises.
-A regulatory framework was established through the creation of the National Energy
Regulatory Agency.
- The energy sector was de-monopolized and reorganized in joint stock companies with the
further proposal for it to be sold to strategic investor(s). The Law "Regarding the individual
privatization project of the energy sector enterprises" was approved on December 23, 1999.
Agriculture sector
- The national program for restructuring and privatizing the agriculture enterprises, with
USAID support, progressed substantially. lIt will be finalized in August 2000.
- The real estate market was created. Unnecessary regulatory barriers were eliminated. The
National Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre was created in order to implement the
national system of cadastre, with World Bank support. This complements the completion of
the National Land Program under the SAC: n a very important way.
Privatization
- Mass privatization through bonds was finished and cash privatization was initiated and the
privatization of small enterprises completed,
- The land market was created, albeit it is slill incipient, and the selling of the appropriate land
- 20 -



to the privatized enterprises was accelerated.
- Subsequent to the adoption of the Privatization Program for 1999-2000, the basis and the
principles of privatization of the strategic enterprises were created by offering them for sale to
investors through open tenders.
Looking forward to the future, Moldovan Authorities consider that the lessons from the
SAL II are extremely valuable for future activities and reform measures. The assistance from
the World Bank is fully appreciated.
(b) Cqfinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
-21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......   ,.,X.....                         ,:                               .  Wm.-. C....  . ..   .. .........,,.,,,jj,;,A,
1. Ensure the social and economic
sustainability of fiscal adjustment
(a) Eliminate budgetary arrears (especially on                               (a) Partially achieved: Despite efforts to
wages, the Social Fund, and the energy                                        rationalize expenditures and increase
sector), by improving revenue performance,                                   revenues general budgetary arrears
rationalizng expenditures and reducing                                       increased to 10 percent of GDP in 1999.
unplanned shocks to the budget
(b) Partially achieved: Some progress has
(b) Strengthen budgetary management                                           been made toward extending the treasury
system to local govemments.
(c) Enhance domestic capacity for
macroeconomic analysis and policy                                            (c) Achieved: CSSR was established and it
formulation                                                                   continues to monitor the Govemment's
reform program and provide policy advice
through publication of reports and policy
consultations.
2. Reform the system of pensions and social                                  (a) Partially achieved: The Government has
assistance to one that is viable and equitable                                canceled pension indexation, eliminated
privileged pensions, and increased the
(a) Make the Social Fund fiscally viable                                      pension age.
(b) Not achieved: Arrears on Pensions
(b) Provide regular payments to pensioners                                   increased between December 1996 and May
and recipients of social assistance                                           1999.
(c) Reform the pension system to an                                           (c) Achieved: Satisfactory laws on public
equitable and fair three-pillar system                                        pensions and on non-state pension funds
were passed in 1998 and 1999, respectively.
3. Restore the energy sector financial viability                             (see below)
and improve the quality of energy services
(a) Restore the energy sector's financial                                    (a) Achieved: In 1998, the cash collections
equilibrium, and stop the build-up of                                         of both the electricity and gas sectors was
energy-related extemal debt                                                   less than 30 percent. Due to the experenced
energy deficit the frequency of electricity and
gas disconnections increased considerably
(b) Impose domestic financial discipline and                                  (b) Achieved: The electricity supply state
hard budget constraints, and improve quality                                  monopoly Moldenergo was restructured in 14
of energy services for consumers, through                                    joint stock companies. (Three of the
de-monopolization and privatzation of the                                     electricity distribution companies have been
energy sector                                                                 sold to a strategic investor by the time of the
writing of this report.) The gas sector was
restructured and prvatized by establishing a
joint stock company with a controlling
majority of shares owned by Gazprom.
(c) Ensure a minimum supply of energy for                                     (c) Partially achieved: Steps taken to
poor households                                                              rationalize the energy sector helped to
ensure a steady energy supply to all
Moldovan households. Efforts were made to
create a targeted subsidy program,
sustainable to the budget. This work
culminated with the Poverty Assessment of
November, 1999, which helped to identify the
poorest segments of Moldova's population,
and the creation of a categorical based
privileges program.
4. Lay the foundations for land reform,
agricultural growth and rural development
- 22 -



(a) Accelerate the process of farm                                             (a) Achieved: As of January 1999, 141
restructuring and land privatization, and                                      farms had been restructured. Land titling
ensure that it is done in an open, fair and                                     under a unified parcel basis was completed
transparent manner. Farmers will have the                                      for 6 percent of private beneficiaries of land
right to exit, or to continue farming in any                                   reform.
system they choose
(b) Create an efficient market for land, by                                    (b) Achieved: The land transaction fee was
reducing normative prices and eliminating                                       reduced from 5 to 1 percent for all first land
regulatory impediments                                                         transactions and a maximum of 2 percent for
any re-sales.
(c) Liberalize rural and agricultural markets,                                 (c) Achieved: A study on agricultural taxation
and enhance efficiency by reducing                                              and subsidies was completed in March 1998
tax/subsidy distortions                                                         and an agreement on the implementation of
study's major conclusions was reached.
5. Accelerate small scale privatization and
development of small business
(a) Privatize urban real estate and create a                                    (a) Achieved: By the project completion
market for it                                                                  time, 677 land plots under privatized
enterprises and 500 leased premises had
been sold.
(b) Start privatizing medium and large-scale                                    (b) Achieved: Controlling blocks of shares in
enterprises for cash, and to strategic                                          14 medium and large joint stock companies
investors, to encourage domestic and foreign                                    were sold.
investment and bring about a rapid
restructuring of the privatized companies.
Ensure that privatization is carried out in a
fair and transparent manner
(c) Complete the mass privatization program                                     (c) Achieved: Residual state shares have
been sold in 295 JSCs that participated in
mass privatization.
Output Indicators:
End of project
-23 -



0*0      0*0      0-0
0*0      0*0      0*0
- tz - ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ wo~
0'001     0'0    0'001       8L S         00 0        00'001        8L 5        00'0        00'001    SaIOd MnOJEP1UaISNfpV
........ .    ...           .
* ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
'                                                           ' ''" ' '", '.', .,.',:'''".'':''' rm''e' .................. ,.,! , . ,- ,.~~~~~. . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .   .
lUOSAfle bs UO!I I!Wu  Ssn U!) luauodtuo    q  UPueu.       I loa.j
00'001                00'001                         pu!nbell 6u!oueu!j ieioi
00'001                00'001                         Sso03 4OefoJd le81l
00'001                00'001                                                      pso0  sulu seS leOl
I
l                   00'001                 00'001                                       uuoj;3i 3onod Uq2iio.q iuiu4snnpv
(IUOIA nbG uoilptu $Sn ut) juuuood       )    is rso   01I
2upausulJ pue SJSOD  0aarod *Z xauuv



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
n/a
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Sta  ofProject Cyle                     No. of Persons and, Specialty                Performa nceRating
(e.g. 2 Economis s,1                       eqFMS,etc.)  Impl ntation:  De eloment
~vt6nthYear    Cunt     Specialty                          ProgressObetv
Identification/Preparation
FY 1996 - FY 1997               10    Mission Leader                          S                   S
Social Protection experts
Energy experts
Agriculture experts
PSD experts
October 1996
Appraisal/Negotiation
FY 1997                         10    Mission Leader                          S                   S
Social Protection experts
Energy experts
Agriculture experts
PSD experts
February 1997
Supervision
FY 1997 - FY 1999                7  Mission Leader                            S                   S
Social Protection experts
Energy experts
Agriculture experts
F SD experts
October 1997 - February
1999
ICR
FY 2000                          2    1'roject Team Leader and
(ICR) Project Reviewer
(b) Staff
|0077::07:Stage; of Project Cyle0000000j00: 00:T:0Actual/Latest 'Estimate.  
__________ __________ ___   No.  Stff  w e k               US$    ,0.00)
Identification/Preparation                   76.9                         341.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                        35.6                           91.9
Supervision                                 181.4                         390.2
ICR                                            14                           13.5
Total                                       307.9                         836.7
- 26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                           O H  O SU   M  O N  O NA
M Sector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
I Physical                                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
N Institutional Development                0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
FEnvironmental                             O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
ZI Poverty Reduction                O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
ZGender                             OH OSUOM ON *NA
C0 Other (Please specify)
Z Private sector development               0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management                 0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
C1 Other (Please specify)
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
I Lending                                             OHSOS   OU  OHU
X Supervision                                         OHS OS   O u   O HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS O U Q HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
Z Preparation                                         OHS OS   O  U  O HU
X Government implementation performance               O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
I Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS   OU  O HU
F Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Second Structural Adjustment Credit/Loan President's Report No. P7139 MD
World Bank Mission Aide-Memoires:November 1996 - February 1999
- 29 -






IBRD 24285R3
To :?-Nemir                               M O L D OVA
>  giliiv-~14            U K R A I N E
-Sj~                                To <8ricennnitsa                          SELECTED CITIES
> < 0  *)   NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS
48                    Riscon                                          48-  RAILROADS
Fl                      /                        %0 ~ 1/;2ROADS
INTERNATIONAL
BOUNDARIES
Orhei                           The Aeni   >  (  ;tri   'boundaries.
I     /                                A        Dnulsli MILESs
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t' -% d1. -t Ht'm
'                  01           /Ceodi X  )                                        Vghen  Jry
X           t0 % <          '      .     U  K R A  I N  E               f      46N
Xa>,  t  Xosolsrod             3             < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ods
R~~~~~~ 0 M A N I A                                                    T. CO    K
APRIL 1997



