Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. P 7139 MD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUAL TO US$ 55 MILLION
AND ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 33 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
FOR THE
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND CREDIT
August 18, 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT AND LOAN
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 30, 1997)
Currency Unit        =          Lei
US$ I          =          Lei 4.6
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARA         -       Agricultural Restructuring Agency
ARIA        -       Agency for Restructuring and Enterprise Assistance
CAS        -       Country Assistance Strategy
CIS       -        Commonwealth of Independent States
DMP         -       Debt Management Plan
EBRD         -       European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EFF        -       Extended Fund Facility
ESW         -       Economic and Sector Work
FSU        -       Former Soviet Union
FY        -       Fiscal Year
GDP        -        Gross Domestic Product
GTZ        -       German Technical Assistance Agency
IDA        -       International Development Association
IBRD        -       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IFC       -        International Financial Corporation
IMF        -       International Monetary Fund
INCON         -       Joint Stock Company - Agricultural Produce (Moldova)
JSC       -        Joint Stock Company
LDP        -       Letter of Development Policy
LIBOR        -        London Inter-Bank Offer Rate
LPG        -       Liquid Petroleum Gas
MIGA         -       Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
PP       -        Privatization Plan
PSD        -       Private Sector Development
RAO Gazprom         -       Joint Stock Company - Natural Gas (Russia)
SAL        -       Structural Adjustment Loan (Credit/Loan)
SDR        -       Special Drawing Rights
SOE        -       State-Owned Enterprises
SSC        -       Strategic Studies Center
STF        -       Systemic Transformation Facility
TACIS        -       Technical Assistance for the CIS (European Union)
UNDP         -       United Nations Development Programme
USAID        -        United States Agency for International Development
VAT        -        Value Added Tax
MOLDOVA - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn (ECAVP)
Country Director: Roger W. Grawe (ECC07)
Unit Director: Pradeep K. Mitra (ECSPE)
Task Team Leaders: Arup Banerji, Hafez Ghanem (ECSPE)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT AND LOAN
Credit/Loan Summary
Borrower:                  Republic of Moldova
Amount:                    US$  100  million  equivalent, consisting  of credit of
SDR 32.6 million (equivalent to US$ 45 million), and loan of
US$ 55 million.
Terms:                     The credit will be payable in thirty-five years, including ten
years of grace, on standard IDA terms.
The loan will be payable in twenty years, including five years of
grace, at the standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar
single currency loans.
Commitment Fee/            Variable rate between 0.00% - 0.50%  (set annually by the
Service Charge:            Executive Directors of IDA) on undisbursed credit balance,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver.
0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Objectives and Description:  The proposed three-tranche credit and loan would support the
Government's reforms, necessary to create conditions for a
resumption of growth and an improvement in living standards in
Moldova.
To achieve this goal, critical reforms need to be undertaken in:
(i) improving financial discipline; (ii) privatizing the energy
sector; (iii) accelerating land reform and land privatization; (iv)
reforming the pension system; and (v) completing enterprise
privatization, especially for small-scale.
Benefits:                  The credit and loan would provide the Moldovan Government
with short-term budgetary support essential for maintaining the
level of basic public services at a time of fiscal transition. It will
also provide necessary foreign exchange to purchase imports
critical for Moldova's economic activity. The availability of
low cost, non-inflationary budgetary financing will help
consolidate Moldova's economic stabilization and maintain its
short-term creditworthiness. At the same time, the reform
program supported by the credit and loan will address key
bottlenecks and enhance the prospects of long-term growth and
improved living standards.
Risks:                     The operation has three major risks.  The greatest risk is
political. With Parliamentary elections due within the next year,
it is possible that the reform process may be slowed or stalled.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i.
Second, the Government may be hampered by weak institutional
capacity for effective implementation, especially in the areas of
farm restructuring and energy sector privatization. Finally, there
is the risk that the much needed economic expansion, the aim of
the reform program, will be delayed and thus push Moldova into
a less sustainable economic path. This may be due to slow
reform implementation, or an exogenous shock to production or
income that lowers growth.
The operation seeks to minimize the overall risk by ensuring that
a major part of the reform agenda is front-loaded, and will be
implemented before Board presentation. To mitigate the political
risks, the Government and Bank have been carrying out a wide
dialogue with diverse elements of civil society, so as to build
broad-based support for the reform program. To alleviate the
risks to the program caused by weak implementation capacity,
the Bank is working with two non-Governmental agencies
specifically created to implement reform programs in agriculture
and enterprise restructuring, and helping the Government to
mobilize external technical assistance for implementation. The
program includes social mitigation efforts, in its fiscal, pension
reform, and energy sector reform components.
Schedule of Disbursement   - SDR 25.4 million (equivalent to US$ 35 million) immediately
after credit effectiveness (expected in September 1997);
- SDR 7.2 million (equivalent to US$ 10 million) and
US$ 25 million upon satisfaction of second tranche release
conditions (expected about June 1998);
- US$ 30 million upon satisfaction of third tranche release
conditions (expected about March 1999).
Poverty Category           Not applicable
Project ID Number          MD-PE-44 147
Map                        IBRD No. 24285R3



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF IBRD AND IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART 1. THE ECONOMY ............................................... I
A. Moldova's Transition Challenge ....................................................                       I
B. Political Consensus on Economic Reforms ................                  .................................... 2
C. Reducing Arrears is a Clear Priority .................................................... 3
D. Extending the Privatization Program  is Necessary for Growth ............................................ 4
E. Towards Achieving Moldova 's Economic Goals ....................................................          4
PART 11. MOLDOVA'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ................................................                          6
A. Program  Objectives ....................................................                                  6
B. Promoting Macroeconomic Stability ....................................................                    7
C. Creating a Fair and Affordable Pensions System ............................           ........................ 9
D. De-Monopolizing and Privatizing the Energy Sector ....................................................   10
E. Creating a Competitive, Private Agricultural Sector ....................................................     12
F. Completing Enterprise Privatization ....................................................                 14
PART 111. THE PROPOSED LOAN ....................R.                                                             1 6
A. The Proposed Loan is Central to the Country Assistance Strategy ..................................... 16
B. Benefits and Risks .................................................. 17
C. Bank Operations .................................................. 20
D. Financial Arrangements ..................................................                                20
E. Collaboration With IMF And Other Donors .................                  ................................. 21
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT ...............................................                       22



ii
ANNEXES
Annex I       Table 1: Main Economic Indicators
Table 2: Balance of Payments
Table 3: Debt Indicators
Table 4: Moldova at a Glance
Annex 2       Status of Bank Group Operations and Status of IFC Operations
Annex 3       Timetable of key processing events and Staffing
Annex 4       Letter of Development Policy
Annex 5       Matrix of Policy Conditionality
BOXES
Box l         Government Expenditure Arrears                                  8
Box 2         Farm Restructuring                                             13
Box 3         Project Risks and Mitigation Measures                          17
Box 4         Measures Already Taken Under the Program                       19



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF IBRD AND IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed Structural Adjustment Credit to the Republic of Moldova in the amount of
SDR 32.6 million (amount equivalent to US$ 45 million), and a proposed Structural
Adjustment Loan to the Republic of Moldova in the amount of US$ 55 million, to
provide support for the Government's economic reform program. The credit and loan
(collectively SAL 1) will be disbursed in a total of three tranches.
2.    The credit would be on IDA terms, with a maturity of 35 years including a grace
period of 10 years, and would be disbursed in two tranches: SDR 25.36 million
(equivalent to US$ 35 million) immediately after effectiveness, and SDR 7.24 million
(equivalent to US$ 10 million) to be disbursed upon satisfaction of second tranche release
conditions (expected about June 1998).
3.    The loan would be made for 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, at the
standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US Dollar single currency loans with an expected
disbursement period of 0-3 years, and would be disbursed in two tranches:
US$ 25 million to be disbursed upon satisfaction of second tranche release conditions
(expected about June 1998), and US$ 30 million to be disbursed upon satisfaction of third
tranche release conditions (expected about March 1999).
4.    The Republic of Moldova joined the IBRD on August 12, 1992, MIGA on June 9,
1993, and IDA on June 14, 1994.
PART I. THE ECONOMY
A. Moldova's Transition Challenge
5.    Moldova's independence in 1991 brought with it considerable economic
disruptions. There was a significant breakdown of traditional trade linkages and payment
systems and a traumatic exposure to world prices. The combination of a large terms-of-
trade shock (30 percent of GDP in 1992 prices), a decline in the demand for its exports,
and severe weather (droughts, hurricanes and floods) nearly crippled the country's
economy. Inflation soared, cresting at about 2,200 percent in 1992. By 1994, almost
three-fourths of industry was at a standstill, agriculture was declining and GDP was just
over 40 percent of its 1990 level.



2
6.   Independence was also followed by a period of political instability. In the armed
conflict between the Moldovan regions on the east (Transnistria) and west banks of the
Nistru, discord over economic policies was aggravated by ethnic tensions. A cease-fire
was declared in 1992. Since then, there has been slow progress towards a mutually
acceptable resolution to the problem, with the resumption of trade and transport, and
some production, between the two regions. In May 1997, the Moldovan President signed
a memorandum with Transnistrian representatives on settling the conflict, but the details
of the eventual accord are yet to be worked out.
7.    Since 1993, Moldova has rapidly stabilized its economy, and has started structural
reforms. Moldova's most visible economic policy success has been financial
stabilization, supported by the IMF (through an STF, two stand-by arrangements and an
EFF). A new currency was introduced in 1993, and monetary and fiscal policy tightened.
Inflation fell to an annual rate of around 15 percent in 1996, one of the lowest rates in the
FSU.  The Government's initial round of structural reforms, supported by a
Rehabilitation Loan (approved in 1993) and a first Structural Adjustment Loan (approved
in 1994) focused on three areas: (i) privatizing, restructuring, and demonopolizing
enterprises; (ii) strengthening the legal and regulatory framework in the financial sector;
and (iii) liberalizing prices and trade.
8.    The reforms have moved Moldova's economy towards improved efficiency and
responsiveness, but the agenda is yet incomplete. The situation became particularly
difficult in 1996, when economic and political factors converged to slow the pace of
reforms. Adverse weather conditions contributed to a drop in GDP by 10 percent. At the
same time, a volatile election season resulted in some slippage in the reform program.
The new Government in Moldova is now working to combine progress in financial
stabilization with a second generation of structural reforms aimed at revitalizing the
economy through imposing payments discipline and promoting private sector led growth.
B. Political Consensus on Economic Reforms
9.    Building consensus on economic reforms in Moldova has not been easy.
Presidential elections were held in late 1996. The new President, Mr. Petru Lucinschi,
immediately announced his determination to continue, and even accelerate, the reform
program. One of his first actions was to issue a decree on urgent measures which stressed
action in two key areas: (i) improving financial discipline, particularly payment of
budgetary arrears to workers and pensioners, and (ii) accelerating privatization (especially
small-scale privatization), land reform, and the development of urban and rural land
markets. Unfortunately, valuable time was lost in bargaining with Parliament: first, over
the composition of the new government; and second, over Parliamentary adoption of key
elements of the reform program. Legislation on the tradability of agricultural land was
passed only in July 1997, after the President intervened decisively and pointed out that



3
failure of the Parliament to support the reforms would logically lead to resignation of the
Government and early Parliamentary elections.
10.   The period of political change is not over. Parliamentary elections are due in the
Spring of 1998, and the various political parties are already maneuvering for position. It
is possible that Parliament will postpone adoption of politically difficult reforms in the
run up to the elections. The Parliament has already postponed further consideration of the
Government's proposed increase in the pension age until October, recommending that
this be discussed as part of the overall reform in the pension system expected to be
implemented in 1998. It is possible that the present Government will change after the
elections, and that the next Government will be less committed to reform. The President
and Prime Minister have responded to political uncertainty by front-loading the reform
program and taking the case for reform directly to the public. Much of the key legislation
needed for the program has already been adopted by Parliament, with three important
exceptions: the law on pensions, the legal framework for demonopolization of the energy
sector, and the detailed plans for privatization of the energy utilities, as well as, possibly,
further amendments to the land tradability law to promote the land market. Work over
the coming months will focus on the implementation of reforms that have already been
widely discussed in the country and formally adopted by Parliament, and on developing
the consensus required to put the remaining measures in place.
C. Reducing Arrears is a Clear Priority
11.   There is a consensus on the need to improve payments discipline. It is now
generally agreed that that the failure to impose hard budget constraints is jeopardizing the
gains of stabilization and blocking further progress in economic restructuring. The
energy sector is increasingly being singled out as a key problem.
12.   Moldova's success at stabilizing the economy could be compromised by the
failure to carry out structural fiscal reforms. As in other FSU countries, tax revenues to
the State Budget have been falling, and reached a low of 18.3 percent of GDP in 1996.
Difficult decisions on restructuring and reducing expenditure commitments were
postponed. At the same time, the cash deficit was reduced in order to combat inflation.
Arrears from the Government have been the result. By end-1996, budgetary arrears of
the consolidated Government (State and local, including the Social Fund) were estimated
at 964 million lei, or 11.8 percent of GDP. The Government owed 213 million lei to
energy enterprises, 112 million lei in wages to budgetary employees, and 121 million lei
to the Social Fund. This further reduced the Social Fund's already limited ability to pay
pensioners-it, in turn, owed 315 million lei in pensions. Failure to pay the elderly their
pensions in a timely fashion resulted in a great deal of suffering and had serious social
consequences.  The situation has improved over the first half of 1997, with the
Government acting aggressively to reduce the stock of pension arrears by two thirds.



4
13.   Financial discipline throughout the economy is weak. This is a particularly
serious problem in the energy sector where collection rates are very low-at the end of
April 1997, the receivables of Moldenergo (the power utility) accounted for
US$ 98 million, or some 4.7 percent of GDP. The debt to the energy enterprises
compromises their ability to repay foreign creditors for energy imports. The stock of
Moldovagas's arrears to RAO Gazprom of Russia was US$ 212 million, including almost
US$ 45 million in penalties by the end of March, 1997. The energy sector's debts to
Ukraine (for electricity and coal) totals over US$ 50 million. The continued growth in
these arrears, if unchecked, will compromise Moldova's creditworthiness.
D. Extending the Privatization Program is Necessary for Growth
14.   While payments discipline is needed to consolidate stabilization, maintain
creditworthiness and restructure the economy, growth will necessitate ownership change.
Accelerating the pace of privatization in agriculture (which, together with agro-
processing, represents 60 percent of GDP) is particularly important. Less than a fifth of
Moldovan agricultural land is privately managed. The former collective and State farms
(now registered as joint-stock companies) continue to manage some 80 percent of
agricultural land. They are performing very poorly, with agriculture output dropping by
11 percent in 1996. The majority of former collective and State-owned farms are in
arrears to their workers and to the Social Fund. As a result, there is pressure for change
from within the agricultural sector. The Government has begun the process by launching
two pilot farm restructuring projects in the Orhei and Nisporeni regions, with financial
and technical assistance from USAID and TACIS. The Nisporeni program has now been
expanded to 70 farms nationwide.
15.  In the urban sectors, mass privatization has been successful, but small-scale
privatization is being hampered by municipalities which prefer to lease premises rather
than sell. Privatization of urban land is proceeding very slowly, and the land under
privatized enterprises is only beginning to be sold to the new owners. These problems
jeopardize the development of small businesses, with particularly negative consequences
for the services sector, which represents only 27 percent of GDP. The experience of
Central European countries indicates that expanding services is key to economic growth
in transition economies-for example, the services sector is about 54 percent of GDP in
Poland and 60 percent in Hungary. The Government is determined to move ahead with
the privatization of urban land and small-scale enterprises.
E. Towards Achieving Moldova's Economic Goals
16.   Moldova's medium-term  economic prospects will depend greatly upon the
implementation of structural reforms, and, to some extent, on the presence or absence of
external shocks (related to the weather and its impact on the harvest). Growth will come



5
from increased private sector activity in agriculture, agro-processing and the services
sector. This requires domestic and foreign investment. To promote investment, Moldova
needs macroeconomic stability, a liberalized economy, and further privatization. The
implementation of policies in these areas, supported by the proposed SAL II, should
produce sustainable growth with a projected median of about 5 percent per year (see
Annex 1).
17.   Continued  stabilization  requires efforts to  increase  revenue  and  reduce
expenditure commitments. The Government's objective is to reduce the fiscal deficit on
a commitments basis from 9.7 percent of GDP in 1996 to below 4 percent by 1998. This
is a major adjustment that would allow for a reduction in arrears of around one percent of
GDP. It would also be consistent with a rigorous monetary stance and declining inflation.
Inflation is projected to drop under the program to about 12 percent in 1997 and seven
percent in 1998.
18.   Macro-economic stability, together with increased liberalization and accelerated
privatization would encourage private entrepreneurs to invest. The rate of fixed
investment, which is currently under 9 percent of GDP, is targeted to rise to 14 percent
over the next decade-which is comparable with countries in Central Europe.' Initially,
growth is expected to be concentrated in services, such as retail trade and transportation,
where the legacy of central planning has left a great deal of unfulfilled demand and where
the required investment is typically small. The service sector could grow by as much as
10 percent a year, so that its share in GDP would gradually rise. This expansion in
services will require that the private sector be able to purchase real assets (land and
office space). Land reform and farm restructuring-together with free markets for
inputs and outputs, and adequate support services for private farmers-will be critical for
the expansion of agriculture. After a short adjustment period, agriculture growth could
reach a median rate of about five percent over the medium-term, with annual fluctuations
related to weather conditions.  Industry, especially export-oriented agro-processing,
should pick up in tandem and grow at roughly the same rate as agriculture. This would
be fueled in the medium term by increased inflows of direct foreign investment, which is
projected to rise from US$ 59 million in 1996 to the range of US$ 100 million by 2002.
19.   Full implementation of structural reforms would also bring about a large
improvement in the social situation. A key objective of the program is to ensure that
government workers receive their wages on time, and pensioners, many of whom are
among the most vulnerable groups, can count on steady monthly payments. The
unemployed will benefit from expanding job opportunities, mainly in the service sector.
Much of Moldova's official investment and saving is due to inventories (stocks), which were recorded to
have increased by 20 percent of GDP in 1995. It is likely that this inventory is overvalued (and some
of them are "waste" stocks that may not eventually be sold. Much of the remainder will be drawn
down as demand recovers (see Annex 1, Table 1). It is useful, therefore, to look at savings and
investment figures corrected for rough estimates about the size of waste stocks.



6
As the labor market tightens, real wages will begin rising, and are projected to reach their
1991 level in five to seven years.
20.   External stability will depend crucially upon reforms of the energy sector. The
program aims to stop the uncontrolled build-up of energy debt as much-needed structural
reforms are introduced. Energy imports, US$ 316 million in 1996, are projected to
decline steadily to about US$ 302 million in 2000, slowing the growth in imports.
Macro-economic projections indicate the need for significant externalfinancing over the
medium term. The current account deficit is projected to come down steadily, but is
estimated to remain as high as 6.8 percent of GDP by the year 2000, partly due to the
projected rise in investment. The stock of external debt is projected to reach a peak of
over 52 percent of GDP in 1999, before declining to around 40 percent by 2006, and the
debt service ratio is projected to exceed 22 percent of exports by the turn of the century,
before declining to below 18 percent thereafter. These creditworthiness indicators are
acceptable, but do indicate serious risks, especially if growth of GDP and exports does
not recover in the short term.
PART II. MOLDOVA'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Program Objectives
21.   The Government's program aims at laying the foundations for a resumption of
growth through reforms at the macro and micro-economic levels. Past macro-economic
frameworks focused on monetary stabilization, and succeeded in bringing inflation down.
However, by combining loose fiscal policies (commitments deficits of nearly 10 percent
of GDP) and tight money (cash deficits of some 3 percent of GDP) the Government was
taking scarce resources away from the private sector through the build-up of budgetary
expenditure arrears. The present program marks a tightening of fiscal policy and a
reduction of budgetary arrears, with the goal of releasing resources for the private sector.
At the same time, the program deals with key supply bottlenecks. Land reform and farm
restructuring should reverse the decline in agriculture, Moldova's largest economic
sector. Small-scale privatization and the creation of an urban real estate market should
help bring about an expansion of the service sector and increase employment.
Restructuring and privatizing the energy sector should enhance the quality of energy
supply and reduce costs, making Moldovan enterprises more competitive.
22.   Policy reforms are complemented by other actions under the program aimed at
helping bring about a supply response. In agriculture, the Government is putting in
place-with Bank and other donors' support-a project to build a system of rural
financing, and to provide technical and marketing support to the newly-privatized farms.
A Private Sector Development Project-also supported by the Bank and other donors-
supports enterprise restructuring and provides management training and a line of credit.



7
The Government's public investment program, and donors' project financing, support the
objectives of the reform program.
23.   The reform program has two key components: (i) resolving the arrears problem
and enforcing financial discipline; and (ii) laying the foundation for stable growth by
expanding the privatization program. The Government's strategy to deal with arrears is
based upon action in three areas. First, fiscal policy aims to ensure that obligations to
wage earners, the Social Fund and the energy sector are adequately funded within a
realistic revenue envelope. Second, the energy sector is being restructured to ensure that
no more arrears will be accumulated. This restructuring is based on de-monopolization
and privatization, to enforce financial discipline, lower production costs and improve
service quality. Third, the system of social protection and pensions is being overhauled
to ensure adequate, but affordable, protection for the elderly and the vulnerable.
24.   The Government's strategy to lay the basis for sustained growth focuses on farm
restructuring, privatization of agricultural and urban land, small-scale privatization, and
ensuring good quality energy services. The objective is to privatize at least 25 percent of
Moldovan farms and to complete small-scale privatization over the next two years. The
program aims to complete enterprise privatization, focusing on privatization to strategic
investors, cash privatization, and privatizing key infrastructure sectors-energy and
telecommunications. Industry and agriculture are suffering from poor energy services
and unpredictable supply. Therefore, the program encompasses reforms in the energy
sector to improve service quality-which will have a positive effect on growth, in
addition to improving financial discipline and creditworthiness.
B. Promoting Macroeconomic Stability
25.   Macroeconomic stability has been jeopardized by the mounting arrears from the
budget, which has led to increasing economic and social problems. The budget's debt to
the energy enterprises has contributed to the enterprises' inability to repay foreign
creditors for energy imports, and the debt to wage earners and to pensioners has
threatened their income security and engendered protests and social unrest. Reducing
budgetary arrears has emerged as one of the top priorities of the Government. The
Government has decided to focus its efforts on controlling the commitments deficit, not
just the cash deficit as in the past.
26.   Parliament has passed a 1997 budget which implies a dramatic decline in the
commitments deficit-from 9.7 percent of GDP in 1996 to less than 4 percent in 1997.
The cash deficit is likely to be higher, at about 5 percent, to allow for a reduction in
arrears. At the same time, expenditure estimates are now more realistic than in the past,
and ensure adequate financing for wages, pensions and energy consumption by budgetary
institutions. Fiscal adjustment is being achieved through a combination of revenue
increases and expenditure reductions. Revenue measures include a doubling of gasoline
and diesel excises, increased excises on wine and cigarettes, and a strengthening of tax



8
enforcement through a strengthening and reorganization of the customs department and
the tax police. The Parliament also adopted the general framework of a reformed Tax
Code, and rationalized the income tax system. Expenditure measures concentrate on
freezes in public sector wages and nominal pensions, and reduced subsidies to enterprises
and consumers. The budget also includes a mechanism to withhold revenues from local
authorities that fail to be current on Social Fund, energy, wage and other priority
payments. To eliminate unplanned shocks to the budget, it also sets a ceiling on new
Government guarantees.
27.   Those policies are starting to yield results. During the first half of 1997, the
commitments deficit dropped to an estimated 4.5 percent of GDP. Revenue collections
improved. Excluding Social Fund contributions, tax revenues were up by about 8'/2
percent over the first quarter of 1996. Current wages and pensions are being paid in a
timely manner (Box 1).
I,I     i J    L2]bL     L       ^ 
end-December 1996          end-May 1997
Million lei  % GDP         Million lei   % est. GDP
GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURE ARREARS
(excluding intra-govt. arrears)  964     11.8          908           9.1
Budgetary Arrears (gross)        690            8.4          862a          8.6
o/w  To budgetary employees     112            1.4          II1           1.1
To energy sector           213            2.6          180           1.8
For capital investment      98            1.2           93           0.9
Social Fund Arrears (gross)      395            4.8          181           1.8
o/w  Topensioners               315            3.8          111           1.1
a/ includes Lei 82 million of external arrears that were paid on June 6, 1997.
28.   The Government expects that, at a minimum, its reform measures will prevent an
increase in arrears-a second and third tranche condition of SAL II. The data in Box 1,
and subsequent indications, show that it has so far been successful in reducing pension
arrears, and in stabilizing wage and energy arrears. However, arrears to other suppliers
continue to grow. The process of controlling arrears will be facilitated by the deepening
of fiscal reforms under the 1998 budget, implementing the new Tax Code and making
progress in rationalizing expenditures, especially in the health and education sectors.
The Government will be assisted in this process by the newly established Strategic
Studies Center, an autonomous organization responsible for macroeconomic analysis,
policy formulation, and monitoring implementation of the reform program



9
C. Creating a Fair and Affordable Pensions System
29.   Fiscal adjustment will allow the Government to meet important social obligations.
In 1996, some pensioners-as well as other social benefit recipients-did not receive any
payments from the Social Fund for nine consecutive months. The Governnent is
determined that this situation will not recur in the future. In the short run, this will be
accomplished by more realistic Social Fund budgets that rationalize expenditures and
ensure that revenue shortfalls are covered through transfers from the State Budget. The
Government is also committed to implementing more far-reaching structural reforms to
ensure that the system is viable and equitable over the medium-term.
30.   The 1997 Social Fund budget approved by Parliament in March will help ensure
that the Fund's current obligations will be met. This budget has four important features:
(i) it refrains from any increases in nominal pensions-the Government is now operating
on the principle of no pension increases until all arrears are repaid; (ii) it reduces
contributions from 35 percent of the wage bill to 30 percent, so as to lower their negative
impact on the labor market and improve compliance; (iii) it cuts administrative
expenditures; and (iv) it provides for substantial transfers from the State Budget (about
2.5 percent of GDP) to cover the deficit. The Government is aware that transferring large
amounts of resources from the Budget to the Social Fund is not sustainable over the
medium term. It has identified measures to save 25 million lei in Social Fund
expenditures in 1998 and proposed to Parliament an increase in the pension age of six
months per year over 10 years. In June, the Government adopted a strategy to improve
the public pension system, which is outlined in a strategy paper on reforms of the public
pension system prepared by the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection.
31. The proposed reforms in the strategy paper have three goals. First, adequate income
support in old age for the whole population, from both State and supplemental pensions.
Second, affordability for all generations, by relying on realistic levels of contribution
from all age groups. Third, fairness-through equal treatment for all, pensions mostly
related to contributions, and transparency. Pensions granted after 1998 will thus be based
on a new formula. People will have to work longer before retiring, but in return they
will get a better pension. For most people the main pension will be the contribution-
determined service pension, with all contributions counting the same regardless of sector.
A "social pension" will be used as the Government's security valve. It will be either:
(i) in addition to the service pension, but very low so that the main pension is the service
pension; or (ii) a minimum guaranteed pension, if the service pension is too small.
Enactment by Parliament of a law based on these principles is a condition for the second
tranche of SAL II, and the 1998 Social Fund budget will reflect these principles.
32.  Individuals and employee groups will have the opportunity to complement their
State pensions with fully funded, privately managed pensions. The Government will put
in place the regulatory and institutional framework for the operation of private pension
funds. It has established a working group, including representatives of Parliament, the
Government, banking and insurance supervision units, insurance companies, banks and



10
large employers, to prepare a revised version of the draft Law on "Non-State Pension
Funds".  A key concern is to provide sufficient security for private pension schemes.
Enactment by Parliament of legislation on private pensions is a second tranche condition.
To regulate the non-State pension funds, a regulatory body will be established by the
Government in 1998.
D. De-Monopolizing and Privatizing the Energy Sector
33.   Lack of reform in the energy sector has been a serious impediment to both
stabilization and growth. Financial indiscipline has contributed to mounting external
arrears, while the lack of assured and high-quality supplies of power has helped hold back
industrial growth. The Government's program takes action in three areas: (i) restoring the
energy sector's financial equilibrium, and stopping the build-up of energy-related external
debt, through debt management and price adjustment, (ii) ensuring domestic financial
discipline, hard budget constraints, and better quality of energy services for consumers
through creating an appropriate regulatory system and demonopolizing and privatizing
the electricity, gas and petroleum industries; and (iii) ensuring that these reforms do not
deprive poor households of a minimum supply of energy through measures to mitigate
the impact of energy price increases on vulnerable groups.
34.   A Debt Management Plan (DMP) adopted by the Government outlines a set of
actions to restore the financial viability of key enterprises operating in the sector:
Moldenergo (electricity); Moldovagas (gas supply); Termocom and Termocomenergo
(district heat). These actions include price adjustments, improvements in payment
collections, write-off of uncollectable receivables, mutual payment cancellations, and the
repayment of debt with interest over a period of five years. In order to implement the DMP,
the Government increased energy prices twice-in March and June 1997. Household
tariffs for gas were increased by 15 percent in March and then by 40 percent in June; for
electricity by 33 and 44 percent; and for heating by 31 and 100 percent. Now, prices fully
cover costs, including debt repayment. Moreover, the structure of prices has improved,
with the difference between the prices charged to households and other consumers for
electricity and gas eliminated. The price differential for district heat will be eliminated in
1998. The Government is determined to completely eliminate cross subsidies, which will
involve raising the electricity and gas prices for households above those charged high-
volume consumers in order to reflect the higher cost of service. Despite the price increases,
the Government will ensure that, for electricity and gas, end-user collections will rise
steadily into 1998. To further ease constraints on the energy companies' financial
viability, the Government will, in 1998, reduce subsidies to privileged groups (now paid
for by the energy companies), and fund any remaining subsidies from the State Budget.
These measures will help resolve the financial difficulties faced by the energy sector.
35.  In order to avoid the development of a gap between energy prices and costs in the
future, the Government is putting in place a transparent and predictable regulatory system



11
that will be independent of short term political interests. It has already established a
regulatory agency, and issued a resolution that spells out its main responsibilities,
determines its structure, and provides financing until it becomes self-supporting through a
system of license fees. The responsibilities of this agency, and its successor regulatory
body, are restricted to the regulation of prices, the promotion of competition, and the control
of the quality of service provided to consumers. It will fulfill these responsibilities by
licensing each type of activity and enforcing compliance with the rules and conditions
stipulated in the licenses. By the fall of 1997, the regulator will develop generic/model
licenses and will issue specific licenses to all the entities in the natural gas and electricity
subsectors that are eligible for licenses. For district heating, the Government will transfer
the regulatory responsibility to the municipalities in 1998.
36.   Privatization will begin once the regulatory framework is fully in place. In July
1997, the Government adopted a detailed plan for de-monopolization and principles of
privatization of the electricity industry. The plan calls for restructuring the industry in
order to develop competition among generators, to de-monopolize wholesale electricity
trading (which are second tranche conditions) and, following a period of about three years,
to de-monopolize retail trading and provide a choice among suppliers for large consumers.
The Government expects that, by end- 1998, a majority of the shares of electricity generation
and low-voltage distribution companies will be sold to private investors who have the
ability to bring the capital and know-how needed for the modernization of the sector
(offering the shares in these companies for sale is a third tranche condition!.
37.   Privatization of the gas industry and the oil trading subsector is expected to
proceed rapidly.  The Government has already sold 50 percent of the shares of
Gazsnabtransit (the company that owns the high-pressure transmission system). Low
pressure pipelines are owned by 25 regional gas distribution and supply companies that are
also engaged in the marketing of LPG. These companies have already been corporatized,
and about 20 percent of their shares have been sold to their employees. It is expected that,
by March 1997 (a second tranche condition), no less than 51 percent of the shares of these
companies will be offered for sale to private investors. The Government has also adopted a
plan to de-monopolize the distribution and marketing of oil products, by selling parts of the
depots and transport assets of Tirex Petrol (an oil trading company) to private investors. Ft
then plans to sell the majority of the shares of Tirex Petrol.
38.   The Government has taken steps to offset the impact of the price increases on the
poor and the more vulnerable groups in society. The 1997 budget includes 3 5 million lei to
compensate vulnerable groups for energy tariff increases. The Social Fund will provide
additional compensation to people who are unemployed or fall in one of the special
categories (e.g. families with more than 3 children) for the energy price increase, for which
its budget includes 49 million lei. In 1998, these compensations are expected to be targeted
to the most vulnerable.



12
E. Creating a Competitive, Private Agricultural Sector
39.   Efforts to enhance financial discipline are being complemented by policies to
promote rapid economic growth. In primarily agrarian Moldova, the agricultural sector is
a key engine for growth. The agrarian reforms implemented by the Government aim to
revitalize private initiative in the sector. This is being done by: (i) accelerating the
process of farm restructuring and land privatization in order to complete the transition
from collective and State farms to arrangements where farmers are free to farm in any
system they choose; (ii) creating an efficient market for land by removing regulatory
impediments; (iii) liberalizing rural and agricultural markets; and (iv) enhancing
efficiency by reducing tax and subsidy distortions.
40.   Land reform in Moldova began with the Government increasing the number of
household plots and giving out land shares (for land used by large-scale farms) to almost
a quarter of the population. Until 1996, actual restructuring of large-scale farms was
slow-out of about 950 large-scale farms, only 80 farms were fully restructured into
entirely private operations, partly because a February 1995 amendment to the Land Code
blocked individual exit from large-scale farms. However, the process accelerated in 1996
for two reasons.  First, a Constitutional Court decision restored the possibility of
individual exit. Second, pressure created by the increased economic difficulties of
unrestructured large-scale farms resulted in a new push for restructuring.  Local
restructuring initiatives now receive increased support from the Government. Ongoing
pilot projects for farm restructuring supported by international donors have succeeded in
developing new private farm structures.
41.   The Government is accelerating the process of large-scale farm restructuring,
and plans to complete the restructuring of about 250 large-scale farms over the next 18
months (satisfactory progress in restructuring is a second and third tranche condition).
The restructuring will be based on full privatization of land (physically identified land
plots for each beneficiary with individual titles), and the new land owners will freely
decide on the way they wish to continue farming (Box 2). Land will remain in individual
private ownership in the various forms of newly emerging farming organizations, and
these forms provide opportunities for further restructuring and modifications in land use.
In order to facilitate this process the Government has already (i) revised and improved the
exit and registration procedures for establishment of private farms (simplified procedures,
set clear and reasonable time limits, ensured a reasonable appeal process etc.);
(ii) reviewed ongoing farm restructuring pilot projects and prepared practical guidelines
for the dissemination of these experiences, as well as a program to extend these projects
to the national level; and (iii) commenced the functioning of the Agricultural
Restructuring Agency, a non-governmental institution created to implement and support
the nationwide program of farm restructuring.



13
Box 2: Farm Restructuring
For a former kolkhoz (agricultural cooperative) or sovkhoz (State farming enterprise) to be
"restructured" in Moldova, the following have to hold:
* the assembly of the members of the farm decide to enter into a restructuring process;
* identified plots of lands are transferred to individuals, in accordance with the
individuals' rural land entitlements under Moldovan law;
* movable and fixed assets of the farm are distributed to the individual farm members in
accordance with their asset share entitlements;
* successor farming units are created, and the members have freedom of choice to adopt or
join any of the various forms of farm organization.
42.   The Government is establishing  legal and institutional conditions for a
functioning land market, necessary for the success of land reform. The foundation was
laid by a September 1996 decision of the Constitutional Court, which eliminated the
moratorium on land sales. Since then, several key measures have been taken to promote
land transactions. In July 1997, the initial legal framework for the land market was
created by enacting a new Law on Normative Price of Land, which also restricted the use
of normative prices and eliminated lease control for privately-owned land. The new Law
contains provisions that may still act to hamper the full and free operation of the land
market. These include a moratorium on resales of land and a broad range of pre-emptive
purchasing rights. To ensure that the land privatization process proceeds as envisaged, the
Government will closely monitor progress. As a second tranche condition, it will then
take needed measures to remove any impediments to the functioning of the land market
(including, if necessary, adoption by Parliament of necessary amendments to the new
Law). The transfer tax on land sales was lowered by Parliament from five to two percent
of the normative price. At the same time, the establishment of a national cadastre system
including land registration and titling has begun, with the National Agency for Geodesy,
Cartography, and Cadastre being established to coordinate this process. The Government
expects to complete the titling and registration of about 15 percent of land parcels over
the next 18 months.
43.   Concomitantly, the Government is following up on the market liberalization
measures that were started under the program supported by SAL I. To open up the grain
market, it has introduced a system of auctions for the marketing of concessional food
grain deliveries, applied the new public procurement system to State purchases (including
grain), and ensured that grain exports do not require any prior permissions. It has also
adopted a plan to complete the privatization of the two largest public enterprises in the
sector-Fertilitate and Cereale-that would remove residual monopolistic features from
agricultural markets. Most of the remaining Government-owned shares for Fertilitate and
Cereale will be offered for sale by mid-1998 and end- 1998, respectively (second and third
tranche conditions).



14
44.   The Government will also carry out a study of the system of direct and indirect
taxation and subsidization of agriculture. The study will include recommendations to
render the agricultural tax and subsidy system more comprehensive, enforceable and
market-friendly. It is also expected to recommend that a cap is put on annual subsidies
and that support programs focus on efficiency enhancements. Completion of the study is
a second tranche condition and implementation of its recommendations is a third tranche
condition.
F. Completing Enterprise Privatization
45.   While land reform is key for agricultural development, broad-based economic
growth necessitates growth in industry and in services. The creation of an enabling
environment for such growth in Moldova requires accelerating privatization in urban
areas. The process has already begun, with the successful mass privatization program.
As a result of the mass privatization and the development of small private businesses, the
private sector has increased its share in production of goods and services. Today, about
60 percent of industry, 70 percent of trade and services, and 44 percent of construction
and transport is under private ownership. At the same time, 85 percent of public housing
has been privatized.
46.   The Government intends to privatize most productive assets which remain in State
hands. The Government has a three-pronged strategy for enterprise privatization: (i)
completing the mass privatization program to divest the State of any remaining shares in
enterprises that were due to be privatized; (ii) privatizing urban real estate and creating a
land market to encourage the growth of small and medium enterprises; and (iii) shifting
from voucher privatization to cash privatization to help encourage domestic and foreign
investment, promote rapid restructuring of privatized companies, and generate
government revenues.
47.   Moldova' s mass privatization  program  achieved its objectives, with the
participation of around 3.1 million Moldovan citizens (90 percent of "patrimonial bond",
or voucher, holders). Most citizens invested their "patrimonial bonds" in 1,142 medium
and large joint stock companies (JSCs) and 1,093 small-scale enterprises (shops, coffee
houses, etc.). The State, however, still holds shares in over 1,000 companies that were
undersubscribed when their shares were offered. The Government is now selling these
shares, and intends to complete the offer of at least 50 percent of the shares by mid- 1998.
48.   The sale of leased premises and land under privatized enterprises is needed to
encourage small private businesses, and to expand the real estate market. Privatization of
land under privatized enterprises will support a faster restructuring of the enterprises,
making them more attractive for local and foreign investors, and providing them with a
collateral for bank lending. To date, about 2,000 leased premises have been identified as
potential candidates for privatization. The sale of these leased premises has started-the
Ministry of Privatization has received 74 applications for buying leased premises and has



15
approved and processed 48. A barrier to the acceleration of this process has been the
unrealistically high normative prices for land. In May 1997, the normative prices for the
privatization of land under privatized enterprises were reduced by Parliament. The
Government proposes to allow buyers to pay for the land in installments for up to five
years.
49.   The results of cash privatization have been below expectations. Out of 190
small-sized enterprises approved to be privatized for cash, only 45 were sold in 1995, and
17 in 1996. To expand cash privatization, the Government has started implementing a
more flexible pricing policy, and is reducing the starting price after the first auction if the
small-sized enterprise is not sold. It is also holding a new type of auctions. On March
14, 1997, the first "Dutch auction" was held for the sale of small scale objects. In order
to encourage the participation of Moldovan citizens in cash privatization, the Government
has created a mechanism for selling a small number of shares to individuals, who may not
be able to afford to buy large quantities.
50.   The Government plans to privatize shares in hundreds of JSCs and other State
Owned Enterprises (SOEs) that were left out of previous privatization programs. This is
a difficult task even for a country with a developed capital market where the JSCs and
SOEs have a business record. Each JSC or SOE will require a feasibility study in order to
choose an appropriate privatization strategy, based on its size, profile and market
condition. The privatization program supported by SAL II includes a large menu of
privatization methods such as auctions, selling shares through the Stock Exchange,
public offerings, trade sales, debt-equity swaps, and capitalization of the privatized
enterprises. The Government is pursuing a program of institutional strengthening and
technical assistance for the Ministry of Privatization.
51.   The Privatization Program  for 1997-1998 (97/98 PP) was approved by
Parliament in July 1997. The 97/98 PP contains most of the productive assets still owned
by the State, including:
*  Real estate: leased premises of small-sized enterprises, and the land under or
adjacent to privatized enterprises;
*  Small-scale enterprises: both those approved earlier for cash privatization but
remaining unsold, and those left out of previous privatization programs;
a  Medium and large enterprises: those left out of the previous privatization
programs, and JSCs that have already been restructured;
*  Most State shares injoint stock companies;
a  Companies  in  the  infrastructure  sectors:  including  energy  and
telecommunications companies (the Government has retained an international
investment bank, with EBRD support, to help privatize Moldtelecom through
sale to strategic investors).
52.   Implementation of the 1997-98 Privatization Program is a condition for the
release of the second and third tranches.



16
PART III. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. The Proposed Loan is Central to the Country Assistance Strategy
53.   The CAS of April 1996 presents a three-pronged assistance program aimed at
supporting private sector development, strengthening public institutions and financial
discipline, and improving social services and safety nets. In the CAS, agreement on a
program for SAL 11 and its implementation are the triggers for the base case   FY 96-98
lending program-1I projects totaling US $290 million. The justification is that the
measures supported by SAL 11-payments discipline and completion of privatization and
land reform-are necessary conditions for sustainable growth and creditworthiness.
Without the SAL II reforms, the Bank's program would move to a low case.
54.   SAL 11-supported policy reforms are also necessary for the success of Bank
investment operations.  Hardening the budget constraint facing enterprises and
completing ownership change are needed for the success of Bank-supported Private
Sector Development projects (PSD I and II). Land privatization and rationalizing the
taxation/subsidization of agriculture would help achieve the objectives of the Agriculture
I and II, Cadastre and Irrigation projects. Improving payments discipline and reducing
government arrears-to energy enterprises as well as to teachers, doctors and
pensioners-are critical for the success of the Energy and Education projects.
55.  In turn, investment lending is designed to support the adjustment program
Institution building and detailed conditions that are required for the success of the reforms
under SAL II are supported by investment operations in the key sectors: PSD, agriculture,
energy and the social sectors. The investment operations will accelerate the supply
response to the policy changes, and expand political support for the reforms.
56.   The proposed loan and credit amount is double the US $50 million proposed in
the CAS, because it supports a broader and deeper program than initially expected. The
need for a stronger program is driven by the unexpected worsening in the macro-
economic situation in the second half of 1996-GDP fell by nearly 15 percent in the
second semester and arrears doubled. The program has been strengthened in three key
areas: reversing the build-up of budgetary and Social Fund arrears, privatizing the energy
sector (which was not considered to be an option a year ago), and land reform and farm
restructuring (where the Government wants to go deeper and faster than was expected at
the time of CAS preparation). The depth of the reform program supported by SAL II
implies an increase in its short term costs-eliminating budgetary and Social Fund arrears
alone will cost the Government almost US$ 200 million.  It also means that
implementation of the reform program and disbursement of SAL II will require more
time. Mainly because of the time needed to privatize the energy sector, carry out land
reform, and develop the social consensus for pension reform, the proposed loan and credit
are now expected to disburse over 18-24 months in three tranches. The CAS envisioned
SAL II as a two tranche operation that would disburse over 9-12 months.



17
B. Benefits and Risks
57.   Benefits: SAL II would provide the financial underpinning for the Moldovan
Government's cross-sectoral reform program. It will have three fundamental benefits.
First, the reform program supported by SAL II will address key bottlenecks, and enhance
the prospects of long-term growth and improved living standards by setting in place a
comprehensive program of reforms that will span the 1998 Parliamentary elections.
Second, it will provide short-term budgetary support essential for maintaining the level of
basic public services at a time of fiscal adjustment. The availability of low cost, non-
inflationary budgetary financing will help consolidate Moldova's economic stabilization.
Third, it will provide necessary foreign exchange to purchase imports critical for
Moldova's economic activity while maintaining creditworthiness.
Risks                            Mitigation Measures
.  Delays in policy implementation due to  .  Front-loading the core policy reforms as
upcoming Parliamentary elections         pre-Board conditions
.  A new Government with weaker          .  Extensive dialogue with broad elements
ownership of the reform program could be  of civil society, and a public education
in place after the Parliamentary elections  program, to build consensus for the
reform program
.  Weak implementation capacity of       *  Essential elements of the TA program are
Government                               already in place, and donor coordination
meetings are regularly organized
*  Slow rebound in economic growth, due to   .  Front-loading the core policy reforms as
delayed implementation of reforms or     pre-Board conditions and focus on
exogenous shocks                         implementation
.  Social mitigation programs in place as
part of program
58.  Risks: The operation has three important risks (Box 3). The greatest risk is
political. With Parliamentary elections due in early 1998 (paragraph 10), it is possible
that the reform process may be slowed or stalled. In case there is a new government, it
might be less reform-minded than the present one, lack ownership of the SAL II program
developed by its predecessor, and not implement it fully. There may also be delays in
policy implementation during the months preceding the elections. The operation seeks to
minimize the overall risk by ensuring that a major part of the reform agenda is front-
loaded (Box 4). Most of the core reforms under the program have already been taken.
The Government, with support from the Bank, has been carrying out an extensive
dialogue with many elements of civil society. A public education campaign, including
regular roundtable discussions led by the Resident Mission, has helped explain the reform
program and build broad-based support for it.



18
59.   The Government's reform program is very ambitious, and will require a great deal
of institutional capacity for effective implementation. This is especially true for farm
restructuring and energy sector privatization. The Government wants to move very
quickly in these two areas and has set ambitious targets and deadlines. However, weak
institutions and lack of experience could hamper implementation, and in turn delay
release of the second and third tranches of SAL II. In order to minimize this risk, the
Government has created a special Agricultural Restructuring Agency (ARA) and ensured
the availability of sufficient technical assistance to carry out the program. In the area of
energy sector privatization, technical assistance is being provided to the Agency for
Enterprise Restructuring (ARIA) and a program for strengthening the Ministry of
Privatization is being put in place. The Bank is helping the Ministry of Privatization with
technical assistance proposals to support implementation of the 1997/98 PP. To help
ensure arrears reduction, the Bank is cooperating closely with the IMF in monitoring the
fiscal program of the Government.
60.   The reform program supported by the proposed SAL II is designed to lay the
foundations for a resumption of economic growth. But there is the risk that there will be
a delay in the return to growth, pushing Moldova onto a less sustainable economic path.
This could happen if reform implementation is slow, or if there is an exogenous shock
affecting production (for example bad weather) or income (for example a deterioration in
the terms of trade). If the resumption of growth is delayed by two to three years, even
with structural reforms in place, the current account balance could worsen significantly,
lifting debt indicators to unsustainable levels (for instance, debt-to-GDP ratios of over 70
percent, and debt service ratios of around 25 percent, by the year 2000). Continued
economic decline could weaken the reformers in Government and erode support for the
program. The program is designed to mitigate this risk by front-loading key reform
conditions and concentrating on implementation. The program includes social mitigation
efforts to cushion the worst-off in society, by ensuring that arrears to the population are
paid promptly, pension reform ensures prompt payment of pensions, and the poor are
shielded from the effects of increased energy prices.



19
Box 4: Moldova SAL 11: Actions Already Taken Under the Program
Macroeconomic Stability
.    Adopted a realistic 1997 budget, and satisfactorily implemented it.
*    Improved revenue collections, ensured no increase in total arrears from 1997 general budget, and adhered to the guarantees ceiling.
.    Parliament adopted the general framework and the chapter on income taxes of the new Tax Code.
*    The Ministry of Finance mandated improved financial reporting by Govemment agencies, and the 1997 budget law included a mechanism for
improving financial discipline of local govemments.
*    Started operations of the Strategic Studies Center
Pension Reform:
*    Enacted a viable 1997 Social Fund budget. Covered the 1997 Social Fund deficit by a transfer from the State Budget, to ensure 1997
liabilities are timely.
.    Froze nominal pensions, reduced payroll taxes, and lowered administrative expenditures.
*    Continued timely payments to pensioners, and pension arrears reduced by about 60 percent.
.    Produced a draft strategy paper for reform of the public pension and social protection systems. Adopted Govemment resolution endorsing
the condusions of the strategy paper and outining the directions of reforms of the public pension system
*    Established a permanent working group, for the preparation of a new law on non-state pension funds.
Enerav Sector Reform:
*    Prepared a Debt-Management Plan (DMP) and restructured the stock of payables and receivables of electricity, gas and heating companies.
* Increased, effective March and June 1997, the prices and tariffs of electdricity, heat and gas, to attain full cost recovery.
.    Started implementing the surcharge applicable to electricity consumption above the norms set by Govemment Resoluton 807 of December
1995.
.    Adopted a plan to de-monopolizethe distributionand marketing of oil productsby selling parts of the depots and transportassetsof Tirex Petrol to
private investors.
.    Issued resolution to formally adopt Debt Management Plan (DMP) and adopted a schedule to fully eliminate cross subsidies in the energy
sector.
.    Adopted detailed de-monopolization plan and the principles for privatizaton of the gas and electricity industries.
.    Established a national regulatory body for the energy sector as a non-govemmental organization.
Agricultural Reforms:
.    Improved exit and registration procedures and performance standards for establishment of private farms.
.    Adopted process for providing fiscal and statistical identification numbers for farms registered at the local level, and simplified the farm
registration process.
*    Reviewed farm restructuring pilot projects, disseminated the experiences and prepared a program to extend these projects to the national
level.
.    Initiated functioning of the Agricultural Restructuring Agency for farm privatization and restructuring.
.    Moratorium on land sales removed by decision of Constitutional Court.
.    Established the National Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre to implement national cadastre system.
.    Liberalized prices and marketing regimes.
*    Made progress in demonopolizing input supply and grain handling.
.    Completed first phase of privatization of agro-processing.
.    Amended the Law on the Normative Price of Land, for agricultural land, removed lease control for privately owned land and provided the
legal framework for land sales.
.    Removed requirement that Rayon Executive Committees approve land allocatons for persons exiting ex-collective and state farms.
.    Initiated review of the systems of direct and indirect taxes/subsidies in agriculture.
.   Developed procedures to apply new public procurement system to grain purchases, and ensured grain exports do not require prior
permissions.
Privatization:
*    Prvatized 85 percent of public housing
*    A comprehensive privatization program for 1997/98 adopted by Govemment, and enacted by Parliament
*    Induded in the privatization program regulatons to allow Moldovans to participate in cash privatization by buying a small number of shares.
.    Held 'Dutch auctions', to ensure more flexible prices if firm is not sold at asking price.
.    Approved a resolution setting the mechanisms for the sale of shares still held by the State but approved to be privatized for patrimonial
bonds.
*    Lowered the normative price of land under enterprises as agreed with the Bank.
.    Offered for sale 200 leased premises of small scale firms
*    Eliminated baniers to cash privatization of small-scale firms.
*    Prepared a technical assistance program, satisfactory to the Bank, to support the implementaton of the 1997/98 PP
*    Conducted a review of the functioning of the Share Registry and transferred privatized companies to that registry.



20
C. Bank Operations
61.   The Bank's assistance program in Moldova has combined policy-based lending
with investment operations, technical assistance and ESW. Policy lending has provided
quick disbursing balance of payments funds in support of macroeconomic stabilization,
price and trade liberalization, and the initial phase of structural reform, notably
privatization, financial sector reform, and enterprise restructuring. Quick disbursing
loans have included the US$ 26 million Drought Recovery project and the follow-up
US$ 60 million Rehabilitation Loan, both approved in 1993, as well as the US$ 60
million Structural Adjustment Loan approved in late 1994.
62.  Investment lending began in 1995 with the US$ 30 million Pre-export Guarantee
Facility, which offers political risk insurance designed to attract working capital loans
from abroad. The investment lending program accelerated in 1996 with the approval of a
US$ 35 million loan for the Private Sector Development project, a US$ 10 million loan
for the First Agriculture project, and a US$ 10 million loan for the Energy project. The
first IFC investment in Moldova (US$ 10 million in INCON, a major agroprocessor) was
approved in December 1996. Expansion of investment lending has continued in 1997,
with a US$ 16.8 million loan for the General Education project, approved in April, a SDR
6.6 million IDA credit for the PSD II project, approved in June, and the US$ 23 million
Cadastre project, scheduled for Board presentation in late 1997. Priority sectors for
future investment lending include agriculture, PSD and the social sectors. Although US$
81 million in investment lending has been committed to date, disbursements have been
delayed by a number of factors, including the slowdown in structural reform in 1996,
unfamiliarity with World Bank procedures, and a chronic shortage of counterpart funds.
63.   The lending program has been complemented by a portfolio of grant funded
technical assistance projects, ranging from the preparation of public procurement
legislation to the development of modem enterprise accounting standards and the design
of health care reforms. The country assistance program includes an active non-lending
services program which mixes short policy notes on issues of immediate importance with
in-depth macroeconomic and sector studies. A core component of the ESW program is
the Poverty Assessment scheduled for completion in December, 1997.
D. Financial Arrangements
64.   Loan Amount and Borrower: The proposed Structural Adjustment Credit
(SDR 32.6 million) and Structural Adjustment Loan (US$ 55 million) would be made to
the Republic of Moldova, represented by the Ministry of Finance. Disbursements under
the proposed Credit and Loan will be made to two accounts ("Deposit Accounts"), one
each for the Credit and Loan, of the Ministry of Finance established at the National Bank
of Moldova for this purpose.



21
65.   The Credit will be on IDA terms, with a maturity of 35 years including a grace
period of 10 years, and would be disbursed in two tranches: SDR 25.36 million
(equivalent to US$ 35 million) immediately after effectiveness, and SDR 7.24 million
(equivalent to US$ 10 million) to be disbursed upon satisfaction of second tranche release
conditions (expected about June 1998).
66.   The Loan would be made for 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, at the
standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US Dollar single currency, and would be
disbursed in two tranches: US$ 25 million to be disbursed upon satisfaction of second
tranche release conditions (expected about June 1998), and US$ 30 million to be
disbursed upon satisfaction of third tranche release conditions (expected about March
1999).
67.   Disbursements. The loan and credit will be released in three tranches, against
satisfactory implementation of the adjustment program, include compliance with
stipulated second and third tranche release conditions and maintenance of a satisfactory
macroeconomic framework. Upon notification by the Bank of loan effectiveness and of
second and third tranche release, the proceeds of the first, second and third tranches
respectively of the Credit and Loan will be deposited by the Bank into the respective
Deposit Accounts at the request of the Borrower. If after deposit into these account the
proceeds of this Credit or Loan are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance imports
from non-member countries, or goods and services on the Bank's standard negative list),
the Bank will require the Borrower to either; (a) return that amount to the account for use
for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to the Bank (in which case the
Bank will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the Credit or Loan). In accordance
with the Operational Directive on the Simplification of Disbursement Rules under
Structural Adjustment and Sectoral Adjustment Loans (February 8, 1996), disbursements
will not be linked to specific purchases and, hence, there will be no procurement
requirements.
68. Reporting, Accounting and Auditing. The National Bank of Moldova would
maintain records of all transactions under the loan/credit in accordance with sound
accounting practices. Although routine audits of the Deposit Accounts will not be
required, the Bank reserves the right to require audits at any, time.
69.   Closing Date. The closing dates of the proposed Credit and Loan will be
December 31, 2000.
E. Collaboration With IMF And Other Donors
70.   Cooperation with the IMF on Moldova is very close. A SDR 135 million three
year EFF was approved in May 1996. Although disbursements under the EFF were
suspended in late 1996, a successful program review and implementation of agreed prior



22
actions put disbursements back on track in July 1997. The SAL II team collaborated with
the Fund on the analysis of the 1997 State Budget and Social Fund. Members of the team
participated in the February IMF review mission. Cooperation with other major donors is
also excellent. The Governments of the Netherlands and Japan cofinanced previous Bank
adjustment operations. The Netherlands Government, USAID, TACIS, and GTZ are
cofinancing the PSD project. The Netherlands Government and USAID are providing
technical assistance for the energy sector restructuring program.  The Netherlands
Government and TACIS are providing financial support to the Agriculture Restructuring
Agency, and USAID is supporting the farm restructuring program. The TACIS program
includes technical assistance for pension reform. The Bank and EBRD have worked
closely together on PSD and the financing of the public investment program. The two
institutions have also cooperated on the implementation of structural reform, notably
privatization. The Bank is cooperating with UNDP on the development of a poverty
alleviation strategy and the establishment of the Strategic Studies Center.
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
71.   1 amn satisfied that the proposed credit and loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and the Bank, respectively, and I recommend that the
Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser
Washington, DC
August 18, 1997
Attachments



Annex I
Table 1: Moldova: Main Economic Indicators                                                                           Table I of 4
1995      1996      1997     1998      199       2000      2001      2002      2003      2004      2005      2006
Real Growth Rate
GDP                                                                   3.0%/o   -10.0%     1.2%     3.0%      4.5%      5.0%      4.9%      4.8%      4.7%      4.6%      4.6%      4.5%
Consumption                                                                    0.0%/o    4.8%      5.6%      6.1%      5.3%      4.9%      3.1%      2.4%      2.8%      3.1%      3.5%
Inflation (average)                                                  35.5%     20.8%     14.4%     9.0%      5.6%      5.1%      5.1%      5.0%      5.0%      5.0%      5.0%      5.0%
Inflation (end of period)                                            29.5%     17.6%     11.7%     7.3%      5.4%      5.1%      5.0%      5.0%      5.0%      5.0%      5.0%      5.00/4
Exports (GNFS)                                                                 8.2%      7.7%      7.5%      8.3%      S.3%      7.6%      6.7%      5.9%      5.3%      5.0%      5.0%
Imports (GNFS)                                                                 18.1%     6.2%      5.3%      4.7%      4.7%      4.8%      4.8%      5.0%      5.0%      5.0%      5.0%
o/w: Energy                                                                   7.8%      0.6%      -1.1%     -2.8%     -1.0%     0.2%      1.6%      2.5%      2.5%      2.5%      2.5%
1995      1996      1997     1998      1999      2000      2001      2002      2003      2004      2005      2006
As % GDP
Exports                                                              50.9%     51.9%     49.2%     47.6%    47.2%      47.2%     48.3%    49.0%     49.5%      49.6%    49.7%     49.8%
Imports                                                              59.8%     66.1%     61.2%     57.4%     54.4%     52.1%    51.2%     50.6%     50.1%     49.6%     49.2%     48.9%6e
Resource Balance                                                     -8.9%    -14.2%   -12.0%    -9.%        -7.3%     4.8%      -2.9%     -1.5%     -0.6%     0.0%      0.5%      0.9%
Current Account                                                      -8.6%    -13.1%    -11.1%    -10.4%      8.6%     -6.8%     -5.6%     -4.6%     -4.0%     -3.7%     -3.3%     -3.0%
Gross Domestic Saving                                                20.90/o    14.1%    12.4%     10.6%     9.0/0    8&5%      8.3%      9.7%      11.9%     13.8%     15.5%     16.7%
Gross Domestic Saving less Waste Stocks 2/                            5.9%     0.3%       1.1%     3.3%      4.8%      6.5%      8.0%      9.7%      11.9%     13.8%     15.5%     16.7%
Gross Domestic Investment                                            29.8%     28.3%     24.3%     20.4%     16.3%     13.3%     11.2%     11.2%     12.5%     13.8%     15.0%     IS.%
Gross Domestic Investment (excluding waste stocks) 3/                14.8%     13.5%     11.5%     10.4%     10.0%     9.9%      9.7%      11.0%     12.5%     13.8%     15.0%     15.8%
Fixed Investment                                                     9.8%      8.6%      7.2%      7.0%/a    7.3%      8.0%4     8.9%      10.1%     11.4%     12.6%     13.8%     14.6%
o/w: Public                                                         1.8%      1.9%      1.4%      1.5%      1.7%      2.0%      2.3%     2.7%       2.9%      3.2%      3.3%      3.4%
Government Revenue                                                   25.1%     27.2%     26.4%     26.0%/6   25.5%    24.5%     24.3%     24.1%     24.0%     23.8%     23.6%     23.5%
o/w: Tax Revenue                                                   20.1%     18.3%     18.6%     19.4%     20.5%     19.8%     19.8%     19.8%     19.8%     19.8%     19.8%     19.8%
Govemment Expenditure                                                30.8%     33.5%     31.3%     30.9%     30.5%    27.8%      27.6%    27.3%     26.9%     26.4%     25.9%      25.6%
Fiscal Deficit (cash basis)                                          -5.7%     -6.3%     -4.9%    -5.0%      -5.0%     -3.3%     -3.3%    -3.1%      -2.9%   -2.6%       -2.3%   -2.1%
Fiscal Deficit (committment basis)                                   -7.6%     -9.7%     -3.9%     -2.8%     -2.8%    -3.3%      -3.3%     -3.1%     -2.9%     -2.6%    -2.3%   -2.1%
Arrears Accumulation                                                  1.9%     3.4%      -1.0%     -2.2%     -2.2%     0.0%      0.0%      0.0%      0.0%      0.0%      0.0%      0.0%
Memo:
Change of Stocks                                                      20.0%      19.7%     17.1%     13.4%     8.9%      5.2%      2.3%      1.2%      1.2%       1.2%     1.2%      1.2%
Change in Viable Stocks                                              5.0%      4.6%      3.8%      3.2%      2.3%      1.1%      1.2%      1.4%      1.4%      1.4%      1.4%     0.0%
Change in Waste Stocks                                              15.0%     13.9%     11.3%      7.4%      4.2%     2.0%      0.3%      0.0%      0.0%       0.0%     0.0%      0.0%
Arrears Accumulation (neg. = repayment)                                145.0    282.3    -96.1   -232.0   -256.1           0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
1/ Govemment Savings - Fiscal Balance + Public Investment
Govemment Balance + Private Balance - Change in Stocks= External Balance
2/ GDP in Moldova is estimated by end-use only. Over-valucation of stocks implies inflated saving given measured consumption.
3/ Ratio assumes no adjustment for waste stocks to official GDP.



Table 2: Moldova: Balance of Payments                                                                    Table2 f4
(millions of US dollars)
1995     1996      1997     1998      1999     2000      2001      2002     2003      2004      2005     2006
MerchandiseExports(FOB)                                  740.7    822.0    879.9    949.7    1037.7   1149.2   1264.8   13796    1491.9   1603.1   1718.4   1842.1
Nonfactor Services                                       124.3    123.0    148.0    166.7    183.5    200.3    216.5    233.0    249.5    266.6    284.2    302.9
Exports of GNFS                                           865.0    945.0    1027.9   1116.4   1221.2   1349.4   1481.3   1612.6   1741.4   1869.7   2002.6   2145.0
Merchandise Imports (FOB)                                794.0    1044.5   1075.5   1138.7   1197.1   1267.5   1343.9   1428.3   1521.9   1620.4   1726.3   1838.9
Nonfactor Services                                       222.0    159.0    202.8    207.2    211.9    219.6    227.0    234.5    242.1    249.9    257.9    266.1
1016.0   1187.7   1279.8   1361.0   1446.8   1548.3   1645.5   1747.3   1848.0   1952.1   2061.7   2177.6
Imports ofGNFS                                           1016.0   1203.5   1278.4   1345.9   1408.9   1487.2   1570.9   1662.8   1764.0   1870.3   1984.2   2105.0
o/w: Capital                                             97.4     105.4    114.4    124.4    135.9    147.1    157.1    167.7    178.9    191.1    204.2    217.7
Resource Balance                                         -151.0   -258.5   -250.4   -229.5   -187.8   -137.8    -89.6    -50.2    -22.6          -0.6      18.4     40.0
Net Factor Income                                         -20.5    -31.9    -61.1    -90.8    -108.7   -129.0   -152.8   -171.2   -188.0   -206.9   -221.9   -238.7
Factor Payments                                          41.4     58.4      90.9     122.3    143.1    164.7    190.3    210.4    229.0    249.8    266.4    285.7
o/w: Interest                                          31.2      40.9      65.8     88.6      99.7     110.4    124.1    131.5    136.7    143.8    146.4    151.6
o/w: Profit Remittances                                10.2      17.5     25.2      33.7      43.4     54.4      66.2      78.9     92.3      106.0    120.0    134.2
Factor Receipts                                          20.9      26.5     29.9      31.5      34.4     35.8      37.4      39.2     41.0      42.9      44.5     47.1
Current Transfers                                         35.0      60.0     59.0      56.0      52.0     50.0      48.0      46.0     44.0      42.0     40.0      38.0
Workers Remittances                                       18.0      18.9      19.8     20.8      21.9     23.0      24.1      25.3     26.6      27.9      29.3     30.8
Current Account Balance                                  -146.0   -238.5   -232.6   -243.5   -222.6   -193.8   -170.3   -150.1   -140.0   -137.6   -134.1   -129.8
Foreign Investment                                        73.0     59.0      65.0      75.0     85.0      90.0     95.0      100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Portfolio Investment                                      0.0       18.0     20.0      22.0     25.0      28.0     32.0      34.0      37.0     40.0      42.0      44.0
Net Long-Term Loans                                       123.0     88.6     137.5    229.8    173.1    137.2    109.4       92.9      85.0      61.6      68.1     42.4
Disbursements (exclIMF)                                  162.0    125.6    206.5    299.3    275.9    268.4    263.9    275.7    303.1    273.8    259.2    264.3
o/w: GAP                                                0.0      0.0       10.0     129.7    166.8    180.4    163.6    163.1    179.1    142.1    123.0    124.5
Amortization                                             39.0      37.0     69.0      69.5     102.7    131.2    154.5    182.8    218.1    212.2    191.0    221.9
Other Capital Flows 1/                                    27.0       106.4     88.0       5.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Change in Net Intl. Res. (-increase)                      -77.0    -33.5      17.2    -53.3    -60.5    -61.4    -66.1    -76.8    -82.0    -64.1    -76.0    -56.6
IMF Credit                                                65.0      25.0     44.0      -4.1     -38.2    -34.8    -37.0    -46.9    -50.1    -39.0    -32.4    -19.2
Memo:
GDP (mil US 5)                                         1698.44   1820.92  2089.53   2345.92  2588.76   2856.83   3068.74   3288.44   3521.34   3768.04   4030.09  4308.31
Average Exchange Rate (LCU/US$)                          4.5       4.6      4.6       4.6       4.6      4.6       4.7       4.8      5.0       5.1       5.2      5.4
RealExchangeRate 2/                                     100.0     81.8      73.4     68.8      66.9      65.4     65.4      65.4      65.4     65.4      65.4      65.4
Terms ofTrade 3/                                        100.0    100.7    101.8    102.8    103.8    105.1    106.3    107.4    108.4    109.5    110.6    111.7
Reserves in Months of Imports                            2.9       3.0      3.0       3.2       3.2      3.2       3.2      3.2       3.2       3.2       3.2      3.2
1/ Includes energy arrears, short-term loans and errors and ommissions.
2/ Decrease = Appreciation
3/ Increase = Improvement



Annex I
Table 3 of 4
Table 3: Moldova: Debt Indicators
1995     1996     1997     1998     1999     2000      2001     2002    2003      2004     2005      2006
Total DOD (US$M)                                      691.0    829.8   1038.1  1227.8   1361.7   1466.1   1536.6   1581.6  1615.5   1639.1   1651.8   1708.0
Debt Service (USSM)                                   69.0      85.9    156.8   228.2    273.6    276.3    315.6    361.2   404.9    395.0    369.8    392.7
Total Debt/GDP                                       40.7%    45.6%    49.7%    52.3%    52.6%    51.3%    50.1%    48.1%    45.9%    43.5%    41.0%    39.6%
Debt Service GDP                                      4.1%     4.7%      7.5%     9.7%     10.6%    9.7%     10.3%    11.0%    11.5%    10.5%     9.2%     9.1%
Interest/GDP                                          1.8%     2.2%      3.1%     3.8%     3.9%     3.9%     4.0%     4.0%     3.9%      3.8%     3.6%     3.5%
Debt Service/Total Exports                            7.6%     8.7%     14.5%    19.5%    21.4%    19.6%    20.5%    21.5%    22.4%    20.4%    17.8%    17.7%
DOD/Export                                            76.4%    83.8%    96.3%    105.1%   106.6%   104.1%   99.6%    94.3%    89.3%    84.5%    79.6%    76.8%
IBRD Debt (US$M)                                      152.0    154.0    162.7   240.1    269.2    313.4    371.7   442.8   517.9    594.3    638.4    719.2
IBRD Debt Service Due (US$M)                           8.0      11.0     11.1     15.7     25.2     29.9      34.8     39.1     49.0     59.5    100.0    111,7
IBRD Debt/GDP                                         8.9%     8.5%      7.8%    10.2%    10.4%    11.0%    12.1%    13.5%    14.7%    15.8%    15.8%    16.7%
1BRD Debt/Total DOD                                  22.0%    18.6%    15.7%    19.6%    19.8%    21.4%    24.2%    28.0%    32.1%    36.3%    38.6%    42.1%
IBRD Debt Service / GDP                               0.5%     0.6%      0.5%     0.7%     1.0%     1.0%      1.1%     1.2%     1.4%     1.6%     2.5%     2.6%
IBRD DebtService/TotalExports                         0.9%      1.1%     1.0%     1.3%     2.0%     2.1%     2.3%     2.3%      2.7%     3.1%     4.8%     5.0%
IBRDDebtService/TotalDebtService                      11.6%    12.8%     7.1%     6.9%     9.2%     10.8%    11.0%    10.8%    12.1%    15.1%    27.0%    28.5%
Preferred Creditors Debt (US$M)                       447.0    537.0    685.7    842.2    892.7    903.3    917.7   930.0   939.9    963.0    979.6   1056.0
Preferred Creditors Debt Service Due (US$M)           57.0      37.3     61.9    121.8    140.0    131.3    140.7   157.9   171.3    171.5    157.8    156.6
Preferred Creditors Debt/GDP                         26.3%    29.5%    32.8%    35.9%    34.5%    31.6%    29.9%    28.3%    26.7%    25.6%    24.3%    24.5%
Preferred Creditors Debt/Total DOD                   64.7%    64.7%    66.1%    68.6%    65.6%    61.6%    59.7%    58.8%    58.2%    58.8%    59.3%    61.8%
Preferred Creditors Debt Service/ GDP                 3.4%      2.1%     3.0%     5.2%     5.4%     4.6%     4.6%      4.8%     4.9%     4.6%     3.9%     3.6%
Preferred Creditors Debt Service / Total Exports      6.3%     3.8%      5.7%    10.4%    11.0%     9.3%     9.1%     9.4%      9.5%     8.8%     7.6%     7.0%
Preferred Creditors Debt Service/Total Debt Service  82.6%    43.4%    39.5%    53.4%    51.2%    47.5%    44.6%    43.7%    42.3%    43.4%    42.7%    39.9%
Preferred Creditors include World Bank, IMF, and EBRD.



Annex I
Table 4: Moldova at a glance
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Central    Low-
Moldova       Asia  income    I Development diamond^
Population mid-1996 (millions)                           4.3        479    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                               600       2,180      500                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                                  2.6      1,043    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                          -0.1        0.3      1.7    i GNP                              Gross
Labor force (%)                                          0.2        0.5      1.7                                      primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (% of total populalion)                 52          65       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         69          68       63
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 lve burths)                 22          26       69              Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                 -
Access to safe water (% of populafion)                     ..        ..       53
Illiteracy (% of populafion age 15+)                      4                   34
Gross pnmary enrollment (% of school-age population)     94          97      105    'Moldova
Male                                                   95          97      112                 Low-income group
Female                                                 94          97       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976       1985       1995     1996
Economic ratios
GDP (billions USS)                             ..         ..        1.7      1.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  ..         ..       29.8     28.3             Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP              ..         ..       50.9     51.9
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     ..         ..       20.9     14.1
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..         ..       21.3     15.2
Current account balance/GDP                    ..         ..       -8.6    -13.1
Interest payments/GDP                          ..         ..        1.8      2.2      Savings                -    Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 ..         ..       40.7     45.6
Total debt service/exports                     ..         ..        7.6      8.7
Present value of debt/GDP
Present value of debt/exports                  ..         ..       71.9                           Indebtedness
197546  1986-96       1996        1996  1997465
(average annual growth)                                                                     -  Moldova
GDP                                  4.4    -5.5        -3.0      -10.0      4.1
GNPpercapita                          ..   -11.3        -3.8      -10.1      4.0                Low4ncome group
Exports of goods and services         ..       ..        3.6        8.2      7.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975       1985       1996     1996
t976 of G9B6          196i Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                          I
Agriculture                                    ..         ..       50.6     49.9   1   I5
Industry                                       ..         ..       23.2     23.1      40
Manufacturing                                ..         ,.        11.6     11.5   I 2
Services                                       ..         ..       26.3     27.0      20
-450
Private consumption                            ..         ..       58.9     65.5    j -Go
General govemment consumption                  ..         ..       20.2     20.3
Imports of goods and services                  ..         ..       59.8     66.1
197545    1986-96        1996     1996    I
(average annual growth)                                                              Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                    ..         ,.        4.0    -10.9      20
Industry                                       ..         ..       -6.5    -10.2    1 10
Manufacturing                                ..         ..        -6.0    -10.2     i 
Services                                       ..          ,       -11.1    -7.2     -i5 2    I    92   93  994    5 s      6
.20
Private consumption                            ..         .,       -0.8      2.5    -30
General govemment consumption                  ..         ..      -18.2      -7.3    .40 I
Gross domestic investment                      ..         ..      -17.2    -11.1    ,50
Imports of goods and services                  ..         ..        5.9     18.1                   Exports     Imports
Gross national product                         ..         ..       -3.8    -10.1
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 1
4of4
Moldova
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975        1986         1995      1996
Domestic prices                                                                                 Inflation (X)
(% change)                                                                                    | 2,000
Consumer prices                                      ..          ..         36.1      26.0    ! 1.soo
Implicit GDP deflator                                ..          ..         29.9      23.5      1,000
Government finance                                                                            it
(-6 of GDP)                                                                                   .   0        '
Current revenue                                                  .,         25.1      27.2                91    92    93    94    95    96
Current budget balance                                           ..         -4.0      -4.4               -      GDP def.  -CO-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                              .,          ,,         -5.7      -6.3
TRADE
1975        1985         1995      1996       E
(millions US$)                                                                                  Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                  ..          ..         741       822       1,200
Commodity 1 - Live Animals & Animal Product        ..          ..           67        84       1000
Commodity 2 - Vegatable Products                   ..          ..           76      425                                                l
Manufactures                                       ..          ..           96       101        00!
Total imports (cf)                                                          773      1,045       600.
Food                                               ...                      32        49       400.
Fuel and energy                                    ..          ..         352       316        200 D                .
Capital goods                                      .97                                05         0
Export price index (1987=100)                        ..          ..           ..      101              so   91   92   93   94   95  9s
Import price index (1987=100)                        ..          ..           ..       100                   i Exports    milmports
Terms of trade (1987= 100)                           ...                       .       101               !
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975        1985         1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                                  Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                        .            ..        865       945        a
Imports of goods and services                        ..          ..        1,016     1,204           90   91   92   93   94   95 i9
Resource balance                                                  ..       -151      -259
Net inrome                                           ..                     -21        -32                                , 4;
Net current transfers                                            ..          26         52       5l
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers                  ..          ..        -146       -239      tj                                        i
Financing items (net)                                            ..         223       272       -2
Changes in net reserves                                           ..        -77        -33     -14
Memo:                                                                                         i_I
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)                  ..          ..         257       315
Conversion rate (locaV1US$)                          ..           .          4.5       4.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975        1985         1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                                  Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                 ..          ..         691       830
IBRD                                               ..          ..         152       164                         FG
IDA                                                            ,,           0         1                         156        A
152
Total debt service                                                           69         69
IBRD                                                                        8         8
IDA                                                                         0         1.              E
Composition of net resource flows                                                                     j23(
Official grants                                   ..           ..           0         0
Official creditors                                ..           ..         108        57
Private creditors                                              ..           o        15
Foreign direct investment                          ..          ..          73        59                 84                231
Portfolio equity                                  ..           ..           0         0 
World Bank program
Commitments                                       ..           ..          60        60       A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                                 6..           7        67       B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                              ,,                        0         0       C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                                      ..          67        67    !
Interest payments                                              ..           8        11
Net transfers                                                 5..           9        56
Development Economics                                                                                                                8/12/97
Note: Estimates for economies of the former Soviet Union are subject to more than the usual range of uncertainty.



Annex 2
Generated: August 14. 1997
Status of Bank Group Operations in Moldova
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
original Amount in US$ Millions                       Between actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                   and expected
Project ID    Credit       Year             Borrower                   Purpose             IBRD         IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  Disbursements a/
No.
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 3
MD-PE-38641  L38510        1995   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA           PRE-EXPORT GUAR. FAC          30.00        0.00             0.00         30.00                0.00
MD-PE-8555   L40200         1996   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA          ENERGY                        10.00        0.00             0.00         10.00                1.00
MD-PE-8556   L40110        1996   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA           AGRICULTURE I                 10.00        0.O0             0.00          9.75                2.50
MD-PE-8561   L39771        1996   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA           PRIV. SECT. DEV. I            10.00        0.00             0.00          8.22                0.00
MD-PE-8561   L39770        1996   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA           PRIV. SECT. DEV. I            25.00        0.00             0.00         24.50                6.88
MD-PE-8558   L41510        1997   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA           GENERAL EDUCATION             16.80        0.00             0.00         16.80                0.00
Total                                                                                        101.80        0.00             0.00         99.27
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                     .75              145.82              146.57
of which has been repaid:                   0.00                0.00                0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 101.80               145.82              247.62
Amount sold                      :                 0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                0.00                 0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                :                99.27                0.00               99.27
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance
(ARPP), a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed
Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
c. Following the FY94 ARPP, "Implementation Progress" will be reported here.
Moldova
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                                 Disbursed
. __________________                     IFC                                        IFC
FY Approval                    Company               Loan    Equity  | Quasi    Partic         Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
1997                         INCON                           6.93      2.00       0.00       0.00      3.46       0.00       0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:                               6.93       2.00      0.00       0.00       3.46      0.00       0.00       0.00



Annex 3
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND CREDIT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
1.    Time taken to prepare:                 9 months
2.    Prepared by:                           Government with the assistance of
IBRD staff
3.    Preparation missions:                  October 15-November 1, 1996
December 12-15, 1996
4.    Pre-Appraisal/Appraisal missions:      January 19-February 1, 1997
March 18-29, 1997
5.    Negotiations:                          May 12-20, 1997
6.    Planned Board presentation:            September 9, 1997
7.    Planned date of effectiveness:         September 10, 1997
8.    Expected program completion:           December, 2000
STAFFING
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn (ECAVP)
Country Director: Roger W. Grawe (ECC07)
Unit Director: Pradeep K. Mitra (ECSPE)
Responsible Staff: Arup Banerji, Hafez Ghanem (Task Team Leaders, ECSPE),
Csaba Csaki (ECSRE), Louise Fox (ECSHD), Kristin Gilbertson
(ECSIN), Alessandra Iorio (LEGEC), Laszlo Lovei (ECSEG),
Elena Nickulina (ECCMD), James Parks (ECCMD), Theodor
Stolojan (PSDEN)
Contributors: Mats Andersson (ECSIN), Brian Berman (ECSRE), Corina
Certan (ECCMD), Mark Davis (ECSPE), Clive Gray
(Consultant), Vladimir Kreacic (ECSPF), Markus Nievergelt
(Consultant), Jonathan Walters (ECSEG)
Peer Reviewers: Pedro Alba (IECDR), James Bond (IENTI), Alberto Valdes
(AGRDR)
Team Assistants: Una Raymond, Marinette Guevara (ECSPE)






Annex 4
Page 1 of 14
August 14, 1997
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1. The difficult initial period of political, social and economic transition following
Moldova's independence was marked by an unfavorable imbalance between export and
import prices, disruption of traditional trade patterns, calamitous weather adversely
affecting agricultural growth, and runaway inflation. Since 1993. however, the
Government of Moldova has focused on a program that has rapidly stabilized its
economy. and has begun the process of structural reforms.
2. Financial stabilization, supported by the IMF. has been a success, with inflation
dropping to one of the lowest rates in post-Soviet states. However, the Government
recognizes that the stabilization is still very fragile, as budgetary arrears to workers in the
budget sphere, the Social Fund and the energy sector increased sharply in 1996. The
Government's initial round of structural reforms, supported by the World Bank's first
Structural Adjustment Loan, focused on privatizing, restructuring, and demonopolizing
enterprises; strengthening the legal and regulatory framework in the financial sector; and
liberalizing prices and incentives. However, the Government recognizes that the agenda
of structural reforms is incomplete and insufficiently effective. This is underscored by
the fact that concrete results have lagged behind-GDP has continued to decline, by
about 3 percent in 1995 and 10 percent in 1996.
3. The Government is determined to continue on the path of reforms, to ensure
economic expansion and social justice. To ensure that stabilization is consolidated and
sustained growth assured, further bold reforms are required.  The objective of the
activities of the Government, in cooperation with the World Bank, is to promote
structural adjustment of the national economy and the creation of conditions for stable
growth, focused on the stimulation of private sector development. The Government has
identified a set of fundamental policy measures for the period 1997/98. These policies
aim to:
* increase the financial resources of the Government andfurther rationalize
their use, by taking measures to restore budgetary discipline, stimulate
industry and exports, overhaul the system of social protection, and cut
expenditures on Government administration;
*  encourage production, by restructuring enterprises, reviving industry,
demonopolizing the energy sector, and encouraging entrepreneurship;



Annex 4
Page 2 of 14
*  revitalize agriculture, by carrying out agricultural reforms, restructuring
collective and state farms, privatizing agricultural and urban land, and creating
a market for land;
*  reform the social sphere, by increasing effectiveness of budget spending on
social programs, maintaining employment, improving the demographic
situation, and improving the living standards of the population;
*  stimulate the inflow of necessary investment resources, and help promote
Moldova's exports, by implementing the Privatization Program for 1997/98,
with an emphasis on cash privatization to Moldovans and foreign investors;
*  create a new regional administration policy by reforming the regional
administrative structure of the country, and re-orienting local government
toward European standards of local self-administration with respect to
ownership, budget and management.
4. The Government's vision is. therefore, to bring about rapid growth through
encouraging greater private investment, expansion of trade and stronger links to Europe.
The program described in this letter aims to achieve this vision through a tightening of
fiscal policy and a reduction of budgetary arrears that would release resources for the
private sector. At the same time, the program deals with key supply bottlenecks. Land
reform and farm restructuring should reverse the decline in agriculture. Small scale
privatization and the creation of an urban real estate market should help bring about an
expansion of the service sector and increase employment. Restructuring and privatizing
the energy sector should enhance the quality of energy supply and reduce costs to make
Moldovan enterprises more competitive. Because growth should be accompanied by
enhanced social protection, especially for the elderly and the vulnerable, pension and
social reform is also a Government priority. The overall basis for carrying out these tasks
will be the strengthening of the State, protection of human and property rights, and the
advancement of civil unity and legal order.
A. Reducing Budgetary Arrears
5. The Government recognizes that the steep buildup of budgetary arrears threatens
both the stabilization process and social security. Expenditure arrears from the general
budget, including the State Government, the Social Fund and local governments,
amounted to 963 million lei at the end of 1996 (11 percent of GDP-644 million for the
State Government and the Social Fund). By the end of the first quarter of 1997, the
arrears had been reduced to 934 million lei (506 million for the State Government
including the Social Fund) with 130 million of the 138 million lei of the State
Government's arrears reduction coming from the reduction in pension arrears. The
reduction in pension and wage arrears is continuing, with overall arrears falling to below
8 percent of GDP by mid-year. The Government has undertaken to change the focus of
its efforts, by aiming to ensure that its expenditure commitments are in line with revenues.
The Government is working closely with the IMF in order to ensure that the stabilization
program is consistent with these efforts.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 14
6. The Government's 1997 budget makes a start by taking significant steps towards
tightening fiscal policy, reducing the commitments deficit from 9.7 percent of GDP in
1996 to about 3 percent, and the cash deficit from 6.7 percent of GDP to below 5
percent. To control arrears, the Government is committed to ensuring, from now on, that
expenditure allocations are more realistic than in the past, so that adequate financing for
wages, pensions and energy consumption by budgetary institutions is ensured.
7. The current revenue system is inadequate, and suffers from a reduced tax base,
inadequate taxation instruments and low enforcement capabilities.  The continuing
inability to collect sufficient revenue has been a cause of the large commitment deficit.
Recognizing this, the Government has undertaken to take measures to increase resource
mobilization and reduce inefficiencies by overhauling the taxation system. Revenue-
increasing measures already undertaken include a doubling of gasoline and diesel excises,
increased excises on wine and cigarettes and the elimination of many VAT exemptions.
8. By early 1998, the Government will work towards the adoption by Parliament of the
revised Tax Code, which focuses on improving the efficiency of the taxation system. The
Parliament has already passed the first two components of the Code, dealing with the
general framework and the laws on income taxes. In consultation with its trading
partners in the CIS, the Government is switching the basis for taxing trade from the
"origin principle" (where VAT is on exports) to the "destination principle" (where
countries impose VAT on imports). This is expected to boost VAT revenues, as large
volumes of imports from CIS countries begin to be taxed. The efficacy of these measures
should be reflected in increasing tax collections over time.
9. There has already been a demonstrated improvement in revenue collections from the
levels achieved in 1996. Revenues increased from 584 million lei (32.4 percent of GNP)
in the first quarter of 1996 to 737 million lei (39.6 percent of GNP) in the first quarter of
1997. An increased effort to collect tax arrears is also bearing fruit. The Government
recognizes that these figures, while encouraging, mask the continuing practice of
accepting contributions in kind, (especially for Social Fund contributions) which is an
implicit subsidy to inefficient enterprises, allowing them to dispose of unsold stocks. The
Government intends to eliminate the practice of accepting payments in kind for current
Social Fund contributions by end-1998.
10. The Government has been compelled during 1997 to resort to the unfortunate practice
of using tax receipts from economic agents (including collections in kind) for
expenditures not programmed into the budget including for purposes such as support to
agriculture, and payments to RAO Gazprom (Russia). The Government recognizes that
such practices lower financial discipline and tax collections, and contribute to the buildup
of arrears. The Government commits not to take any such decisions in the future, and
especially during the SAL period.
11. The Government is also taking steps to address the special danger posed by the
growing importance of the informal economy and tax evasion. By a decree of the
President, a department has been created for corruption and economic crime control. The
Parliament has approved the Amendments to Law 633, which has strengthened the power



Annex 4
Page 4 of 14
of the tax administration, allowing it to seize the assets of those who do not pay taxes.
By end-1997, the Government intends to improve enforcement capacity, by the creation
of a Tax Police that that will report to the Ministry of Finance. This process of improving
tax administration and collections will be continued. Over the next year, further work
will be done on computerizing the tax service and developing a system of formal audits.
12. The Government is also working towards improving the public expenditure system,
which has contributed to fiscal imbalances. It has already taken measures to lower
expenditures on areas not central to social security and promoting economic growth. In
the 1997 budget, expenditure cuts were concentrated on subsidies to enterprises and
consumers and state security outlays. Public sector wages were also frozen. As a result,
expenditure commitments in 1997 were lower (by about 6 percent of GDP) from 1996
levels. On the other hand, there is need to reallocate expenditures within sectors to make
them more efficient. This is especially true for the social sectors-health and education.
The Government intends to initiate, with World Bank help, work on expenditure reform
in the social sectors. By 1998, the Government hopes to use the results from this study to
rationalize social sector expenditures.
13. Local authorities have contributed significantly to the arrears buildup, with an
especially large buildup in local government arrears in the first quarter of 1997 (by 120
million lei). The Government agrees to fully implement a sequestering mechanism to
improve the financial discipline of local authorities, which it already has the authority to
implement under the 1997 budget law. The Government intends to retain this
arrangement, which is outlined in Box 1, over the coming years.
14. Financial discipline of the local authorities will also be aided by the reform of the
regional administrative structure of the country, envisaged by the Government in 1998.
This reform will be based on reducing the number of the administrative bodies (to about
12) by consolidating the existing rayons, and taking into account the resolution of the
Transnistria and Gagauzia problems. The overall local administration reform will aim to
improve the new regional authorities' principle of self-administration, raise the
responsibility of local administrations for more efficient use of their productive and
financial inputs, and resolve social and environmental problems of the regional territories.
15. The Government is taking action to reduce unforeseen shocks to the budget, which
have been a causal factor in increasing expenditures above planned levels. In particular,
these shocks have come from the issuance of Government guarantees for domestic and
international loans to enterprises. The Government recognizes that it has, in the past,
made inadequate provision in the budget for the risk of these guarantees being called. On
January 1, 1997, outstanding stock of internal guarantees was 90.5 million lei, while the
1997 budget has provided for a risk fund for called guarantees of just 30 million lei.
Therefore, for guarantees on loans to enterprises, the Government agrees to limit its
issuance of external guarantees on loans to US$ 35 million for the year, to have no net
increase in the stock of internal guarantees on loans to enterprises, and issue no new
guarantees on loans to enterprises that have defaulted on loans in the past 18 months.
The Government also commits itself, to a significant reduction in both external and



Annex 4
Page 5 of 14
internal guarantees, and agrees to discuss with the Bank appropriate levels of guarantees
for the 1998 budget.
BOX 1: Mechanism to Monitor and Control Local Government Arrears
a   The budget will appropriate resources on a disaggregated basis: For every local authority,
expenditures will be budgeted according to economic line items (including wages, Social
Fund payments, payments for energy, food and medicine). The planned budget for each
institution will be realistic, fully covering core areas of expenditures. This mechanism will
then permit monitoring of actual expenditures by the Ministry of Finance to prevent arrears
buildup, and prevent the practice of deliberate under-budgeting of key items.
*  Payments will be prioritized, and arrears regularly monitored. For each administrative unit,
five items of expenditures will have to be paid on a priority basis: wages, Social Fund
contribution, energy, food and medicine. The budgeted amounts for these five items will not
be allowed to be exceeded. For energy and input purchases, there will be contracts to control
spending. These contracts would be binding quarterly agreements with the suppliers to
provide exactly as much of the product as is allowed by the budget. On a monthly basis, the
Ministry of Finance will monitor the spending of rayons.
*   The Ministry of Finance will use a sequestering mechanism: If arrears are detected, the
equivalent amount will be deducted by the Ministry of Finance from the subsequent month's
revenue allocation. For local governments, the sequestered revenue would be a portion of the
centrally collected revenues owed to them. The sequestered funds would be placed in a
special fund, and the Ministry of Finance will use them to repay arrears. This sequestering of
funds will continue until arrears by the responsible unit are cleared. The Ministry will
sequester funds from the rayon;  the administrator of the rayon would then have the
responsibility of imposing financial discipline on its own sub-units.
*   There will be incentives to promote structural adjustment of expenditures: Administrative
units will be allowed to use any savings from planned amounts of expenditures for
discretionary spending. This measure thus provides reform-minded rayons with incentives to
unilaterally streamline expenditures.
B. Creating a Fair and Affordable Social Protection System
16. In the last two years, the financial condition of the Social Fund, out of which almost
all types of social benefits are paid, has deteriorated. Collections, especially those in cash,
have been falling, as the Government and enterprises have built up arrears to the Fund.
Concurrently, the number of pensioners has been increasing-in addition to old-age
pensioners, new classes of privileged pensioners have added to the financial burden of the
Fund. As a result, some pensioners-as well as other social benefit recipients-did not
receive payment from the Social Fund for several months in 1996. Moreover, an
extensive array of privileges (free or discounted prices for utilities and services) awarded
to various categories of individuals who are deemed vulnerable are often not paid for by
the budget, but by the enterprises that provide the services.
17. The Government attaches a high priority to timely payment of social benefits, in
particular pensions, and has taken a series of measures to improve the financial condition
of the Social Fund. This is with a view to preventing any future buildup in pension
arrears and liquidating previously accumulated arrears. The 1997 budget adopted by
Parliament contains prowth in expenditures, holding pensions constant at 1996 nominal



Annex 4
Page 6 of 14
levels and provides for a transfer of 297.5 million lei from the state budget to the Social
Fund to cover the current deficit and to provide for moderate arrears liquidation. Social
Fund payment arrears have already been reduced by about 130 million lei, and current
payments are being made with a lag of one-and-a-half months.
18. The Government is aware that transferring large amounts of resources from the
budget to the Pension Fund will not be sustainable over the medium term. With a view to
further rationalizing pension expenditures and putting the Social Fund budget on a
sustainable basis over the short term, the Government is committed to taking measures,
such as reducing benefits for working pensioners and lowering privileges, that will ensure
a saving of at least 25 million lei in 1998.
19. The savings measures are the first step in a larger pension reform program being
initiated by the Government and set forth in the resolution on the draft strategy for reform
of the pension system, adopted on June 2, 1997. The pension reform will result in
creation of a three-tier pension system consisting of a minimum guaranteed pension, an
earnings related component and a supplemental, optional non-state pension.
20. The reform will encompass the following measures: (i) containment of expenditures
to enable current payments of pensions and other benefits through increase in the pension
age, reduction in privileged pensions and control of disability pensions; (ii) gradual
introduction of a new pension formula that provides higher pensions for those workers
who will be affected by the increase in pension age and that strengthens the link between
duration and magnitude of contributions and benefit levels while assuring minimum
benefit levels to the poorest; (iii) introduction of legislation providing the framework for
establishment and supervision of non-state pension funds to provide supplemental
pensions; and (iv) administrative and institutional reforms needed to administer the new
system including investments in development of individual contribution records and
improvement in social tax collection.
21. The Government has established working groups to prepare a draft state pension law
and a draft non-state pension fund law reflecting these objectives, for submission to
Parliament by the end of 1997. In June 1997, the Government adopted and submitted to
Parliament a decision to increase the pension age by five years (to 65 for men and 60 for
women) over a period of 10 years.  The Government will undertake to ensure
Parliamentary approval of all aspects of the pension reform by mid-1998.
22. The Government's program calls for reform of the system of compensations and
social benefits. In conjunction with the poverty assessment now under preparation with
the Bank, the Government intends to consolidate and rationalize the existing system of
social benefits with a view towards improving overall efficiency of expenditures and
improving targeting through focus on vulnerable groups.  These reforms will be
implemented by the Government following the adoption by Parliament of the Law on
State Benefits.



Annex 4
Page 7 of 14
C. Restructuring, De-Monopolizing and Privatizing the Energy Sector
23. The Government recognizes that reform in the energy sector is essential to Moldova's
future. Lack of reform in this area has contributed to the buildup of external arrears and
constrained enterprise growth. A key problem has been the continuation of explicit and
implicit subsidies to enterprises and the population in the form of inadequate tariffs and the
delivery of energy to non-paying customers. As a result, energy utilities-Moldenergo,
Moldovagaz, Termocom, and Termocomenergo-have built up substantial debts to each
other, the Government and their suppliers. By April 1997, arrears of Moldovagaz to Rao
Gazprom reached US$ 212 million.
24. The current situation is an impediment to enterprise growth. Today, the pricing system
involves a large cross-subsidy from enterprises (high-volume customers, who are less
expensive to service) to households. At the same time, enterprises that pay are not assured
of continuous delivery of energy.
25. The Government is pursuing a comprehensive reform of the energy sector. The reform
plan comprises three groups of actions:
* debt management, price adjustment and mitigation of the effect on the
vulnerable;
* the creation of an appropriate regulatory system; and
*  privatizationof the electricity, gas and fuel industries.
26. The Government adopted, on July 1, 1997, Decision #547 "On the Debt Management
Plain which outlines a set of actions to restore the financial viability of the major energy
utilities. These actions include price adjustments, improvements in payment collections, the
write-off of uncollectable receivables, mutual payment cancellations and the repayment of
debt (payables and credit) with interest over a period of 5 years.
27. In order to implement the DMP, the Government is adjusting energy prices. In March
1997, tariffs for electricity were raised by 33 percent, for gas by 15 percent, and for district
heat by 31 percent for households. On June 1, 1997, tariffs were raised further to cover
costs fully, including both operating costs and debt repayment.
28. The Government's policy is to improve the structure of energy tariffs. The elimination
in June 1997 of the difference between the prices charged to households and other
consumers for electricity and gas will be followed by the corresponding elimination of the
differential for district heat, in the first half of 1998. The Government is determined to
completely eliminate cross subsidies for electricity and gas during the first half of 1998,
which will involve raising their prices for households above those charged to high-volume
consumers in order to reflect the higher cost of service.
29. The Government recognizes that, in spite of improvements in the tariff structure, the
financial position of the energy enterprises will not improve unless accompanied by rising
collections. In 1996, the collections for Moldenergo averaged 91.4 percent of costs (68
percent of costs in the first quarter of 1997). For Moldovagaz, 1996 collections were 77
percent of cost (just 40 percent in the first quarter of 1997). Moreover, only a small fraction



Annex 4
Page 8 ofl4
of these collections were in cash. In the first quarter of 1997, only 33 percent of collections
were in cash for Moldenergo, and 6 percent for Moldovagaz.  Accordingly, the
Government undertakes to ensure that end-user collections by the fourth quarter of 1997
will be at least 100 percent for both Moldenergo and Moldovagaz. It will also ensure
that, by the fourth quarter of 1997, collections in cash for electricity are at least 50
percent of the total, for gas at least 30 percent of the total, and, for the first six months of
1998, are at least 50 percent of the total for both sectors.
30. The energy companies also provide explicit subsidies to privileged groups by providing
services at a discounted rate, including a 50 percent gas price discount provided to
households that use gas for heating, at a cost of about 15 million lei. The Government
acknowledges that these subsidies are provided for the State's social objectives, and thus
should not be financed by the energy enterprises themselves. By the first half of 1998, the
Government undertakes to eliminate the gas subsidy, or fund it through the State budget.
Price discounts for privileged consumers will be limited to the norms specified in
Government Resolution 807 of December 11, 1995. The energy enterprises will be
compensated from the State budget for the cost of these transfers.
31. The Government has taken steps to offset the impact of the impact of these energy
price increases on the poor and the more vulnerable groups in society both through the
State budget and the Social Fund. The 1997 budget includes 35 million lei to pay for
discounts to privileged groups (10 million lei for gas, 11 million lei for electricity and 14
million lei for district heating). At the same time, the Social Fund's 1997 budget includes
49 million lei for compensating people who are unemployed or fall in one of the special
categories (e.g. unemployed, pensioners, privileged consumers and families with more than
three children) for the energy price increase. The current targeting of privileges is too
broad. The Government undertakes, by the first half of 1998, to reduce the coverage of
these compensations to the most vulnerable groups as identified by the revised social
assistance strategy (paragraph 22).
32. The Government recognizes that, in spite of its actions to rationalize the pricing
structure for energy, gaps between energy prices and costs may occur in the future due to
short-term imperatives. To avoid this problem, the Government is putting in place a
transparent and predictable regulatory system. It has established a Regulatory Agency, and
issued a resolution that spells out its main responsibilities, determines its structure, and
provides financing until it becomes self-supporting through a system of license fees. The
Government is committed to change the status of the Agency into an independent,
permanent, regulatory body once the legal framework is in place to support this action.
33. The responsibilities of the energy Regulatory Agency focus on three areas:
* the regulation of prices,
* the promotion of competition, and
* the control of the quality of service provided to consumers.
34. The Agency will fulfill its responsibilities by licensing each type of activity and
enforcing compliance with the rules and conditions stipulated in the licenses. By the fourth



Annex 4
Page 9 of 14
quarter of 1997, the Agency will develop 18 generic/model licenses. These will be seven
generic licenses in the power industry (for generation, dispatch, high-voltage transport, low-
voltage distribution, import and wholesale and retail trading); seven generic licenses in the
gas industry (for production, storage, high-pressure transport, low-pressure distribution,
import and wholesale and retail trading), and four generic licenses in the district heating
industry (for heat-only production, co-generation of heat, heat transmission, and heat
distribution and retail). By December 1997, the Agency will issue specific licenses to all
the entities in the natural gas, electricity and district heating subsectors that are eligible for
licenses. By June 1998, the Government will transfer the responsibility for regulating the
district heating subsector to the municipalities, and change the role of the Agency (or its
successor) in this sector to one of an advisory character.
35. The Government recognizes the need to restructure, demonopolize and privatize the
electricity and gas industries.  This would generate competition among electricity
generators, offer (after about three years) large consumers a choice among retailers, and
attract private capital and know-how needed for the modernization of the energy systems.
Privatization will begin once the regulatory framework is fully in place. Also, measures
will be undertaken for technical renovation, small electric power station promotion as well
as non-traditional energy resources (sun, wind) usage.
36. On July 8, 1997, the Government adopted the Decision #628 "On Restructuring the
Energy Sector", which includes a detailed de-monopolization plan and the principles of
privatization for the electricity industry. In the fourth quarter of 1997, the Government will
establish separate joint-stock companies to own and operate the Moldovskaya, Chisinau I
and II and Balti power plants, and (not more than) five joint stock companies to own and
operate the low-voltage distribution network. A single company will be created to own and
operate the high-voltage transmission system and dispatch center. By mid-1998, not less
than 51 percent of the total shares of electricity generation and low-voltage distribution
companies will be offered for sale to strategic investors who have the ability to bring the
capital and know-how needed for the modernizationof the sector.
37. The Government expects the privatization of the gas industry and the oil trading
subsector to occur rapidly. The Government has already sold 50 percent of the shares of
Gazsnabtransit-the company that owns the high-pressure transmission system. Low
pressure pipelines are owned by regional gas distribution/supply companies that are also
engaged in the market of LPG. These companies have been corporatized and about 20
percent of their shares have been sold to employees. The Government intends to privatize
these companies by the end of 1997. It is considering various privatization methods,
including a negotiated sale to RAO Gazprom through a debt-for-equity swap. The
Government has adopted a plan to de-monopolize the distribution and marketing of oil
products and other fuels by selling parts of the depots and transport assets of Tirex Petrol to
private investors. It then plans to sell the majority of the shares of Tirex Petrol.
38. The Government recognizes the possibility that some shares of the energy enterprises
offered for sale will remain unsold. In that case, the Government will take other
measures in order to facilitate their sale.



Annex 4
Page 10 of 14
D. Creating a Competitive and Private Agricultural Sector
39. The agricultural sector should be the engine for future growth, and the Government
places a very high priority on agriculture sector reforms. A liberal price and market
regime for agriculture has been introduced. Progress has been achieved in the de-
monopolization of input supply and grain handling. The first phase of privatization of
agro-processing has been completed. Farm restructuring and land reform are on-going,
with the completion of two pilot projects in the Nisporeni and Orhei rayons, and the
subsequent expansion of the former project to 70 farms nationwide. The Government's
intention is to accelerate the process over the next two years by:
* creating a market for land, and restructuring the ex-collective and State farms,
* demonopolizing and privatizing the grain sector, and
* promoting the emergence of a competitive input supply sector and agricultural
product marketing services.
40. In the first phase of land reform, the Government increased the number of household
plots and gave land shares (for land used by large-scale farms) to about a million people.
Until 1995, however, actual restructuring of large-scale farms was slow-only 80 of
about 950 large-scale farms were restructured into entirely private operations. However,
the restructuring process accelerated in 1996, following a Constitutional Court decision
that restored the possibility of individual exit from large-scale farms.
41. The Government recognizes that to ensure a fully functioning land market, the use of
normative land prices must be restricted. The Parliament has reduced the tax on land
transfer from five percent to two percent, and further cuts may be envisioned if this
proves inadequate to stimulate the land market. On July 25. 1997, the Parliament enacted
legislation which provides an initial framework for the land market and removes lease
controls on private land.
42. The Government is promoting further acceleration of large-scale farm restructuring.
It is envisaged that the restructuring of at least 250 large-scale farms will be completed
over the next 18 months. The restructuring will be based on full privatization of land,
i.e., physically identified land plots for each beneficiary with individual titles. The new
land owners freely decide on the way they wish to continue farming. Land will remain in
individual private ownership in the various forms of newly emerging farming
organizations, and these forms provide opportunities for further restructuring and
modifications in land use. In order to facilitate this process, the Government has:
*  revised and improved the exit and registration procedures for establishment of
private farms (simplified procedures, clear and reasonable time limits,
reasonable appeal process etc.);
*  reviewed ongoing farm restructuring pilot projects and prepared practical
guidelines for the dissemination of these experiences as well as a program to
extend these projects to the national level;



Annex 4
Page 11 of 14
* started the functioning of the Agricultural Restructuring Agency, a non-
governmental institution created to implement and support the nationwide
program of farm restructuring.
43. The appropriate role of the Government and of ARA in farm restructuring is now to
provide a facilitating environment for voluntary farm restructuring; to actively promote
farm restructuring through extensive public education efforts; to provide the farms with
manuals and assistance in their restructuring efforts; and to facilitate the resolution of the
farm debts to both the State and commercial entities.
44. The Government is establishing a uniform cadastre system, and other legal and
institutional conditions. It is thereby setting up a system of clear and enforceable
ownership rights necessary for a functioning land market, a pre-condition for the success
of land reform. The establishment of a national cadastre system, including registration of
rights and issuance of extracts of the registration system on request, will be based on a
Law on National Cadastre, which the Government submitted to Parliament on June 8,
1997. The Law will lay out the principles of land registration, most notably: (i) the joint
registration of land and buildings on one real property title; (ii) the decentralization of
registration to the city or rayon level, under the authority of the National Agency for
Geodesy, Cartography, and Cadastre (NAGCC); (iii) a parcel-based system of
registration; (iv) parcel boundary identification for identification of ownership; (v) first-
time registration of properties free of charge; and (vi) the establishment of a warranty
fund to guarantee for correctness of title information during transactions. As an interim
measure, the Government will confide responsibility for all cadastre and land titling
activities, including those stipulated in the new law on land tradability, to the NAGCC.
45. Titling and Registration will take place at a different pace in urban and in rural areas.
The Government expects to complete registration of rights of about 50 percent of urban
properties during the next five years. In order to facilitate farm restructuring, rural titles
will be issued, initially, with only limited surveying determining plot boundaries, and
therefore without Coverage through a Government Title Warranty Fund soon to be
established. These titles would be issued with emphasis on quick delivery, by primarias
and not rayonal registration offices, supporting the farm privatization process, but
allowing subsequent harmonization and integration of registration information in the
national cadastral information system. On the basis of such simplified procedures, the
Government expects to complete titling of a minimum of about 15 percent of rural land
parcels in Moldova by mid-1999. At the same time, the Government commits to
registration of property rights for all farmers who have left their former kolkhoz.
46. The Government is concerned about enhancing credit discipline in the agricultural
sector. In the past, debt forgiveness was common when the sector suffered droughts and
floods. With the decision to rely exclusively on the commercial banks for agriculture
finance, this will no longer be an option. The Government recognizes the serious nature
of the expanding farm debt, now estimated at 2.8 billion lei . Under Resolution 163
(February 24, 1997) the Ministries of Finance, Agriculture and Economy are required to
provide recommendations for the settlement of these farm debts, on a case-by-case basis.
To the extent feasible, the Government would like to avoid individual farmers being



Annex 4
Page 12 of 14
burdened with past debt of the former collective farms. Therefore, in many cases, the
physical and financial assets of the farm, including share-holdings obtained under the
mass privatization process will be used to settle debt, prior to restructuring. For the
medium term, the Government wishes to work with the Bank and other donors, the
commercial banks and the insurance companies, to explore the possibilities of loan risk
insurance and crop insurance.
47. The Government is followinz up on the market liberalization measures introduced
under the SAL I program. Agricultural exports will be a key part of Moldova's economic
recovery. Today, there is no Government regulation prohibiting the export of grain.
Other bureaucratic obstacles to grain exports-including approval from the Ministry of
Agriculture's External Relations Department-have also been removed. In order to
ensure transparency, the Government will abstain from introducing any new export
restrictions on grain during the 1997 and 1998 agricultural seasons.
48. The Government has obtained concessional delivery of grain from several donor
countries, notably through the PL480 program of the United States. When this grain was
sold at domestic prices (that were about 60 percent of world prices), there was a large
subsidy from the Government to consumers. The distribution of the grain through the
parastatal "Cereale" was not transparent. To improve the situation, the Government has
introduced a system of auctions for the marketing of concessional food grain deliveries,
and applied the new public procurement system to state purchases, including grain.
49. The Government took steps in 1995 to restructure and initiate privatization of the
former State monopolies Cereale and Fertilitate. The Government has reviewed plans to
pursue the privatization of Cereale and Fertilitate, and has decided to complete the
privatization of Fertilitate by end-1997 and of most of the units of Cereale by mid-1998.
Cereale and Fertilitate will be fully privatized by mid-1998, except for the facilities
required to hold the State's emergency grain reserve.  If the remaining shares are not
fully subscribed in the initial offering, the Government will take necessary action to sell
the shares.
50. The Government has commissioned a study of the system of direct and indirect
taxation and subsidization of agriculture with financial support from the Bank. The study
will formulate recommendations to render the agricultural tax/subsidy system more
comprehensive, enforceable and market-friendly; to introduce a cap on annual subsidies;
and to ensure that support programs focus on efficiency enhancements. The results and
recommendations of the study will be adopted, including (to the extent possible) by
incorporation into the 1998 budget.
E. Completing Enterprise Privatization
51. The Government considers that the mass-privatization in Moldova has achieved its
main goals. A considerable part of state property has been privatized, and a new private
sector has been created. Most Moldovan citizens invested their patrimonial bonds (PB)
in 1,142 medium-sized and large joint stock companies (JSC) and 1,093 small-scale
enterprises (shops, coffee houses, etc.). Approximately 3.1 million Moldovan citizens



Annex 4
Page 13 of 14
(90 percent of PB holders) participated in the mass privatization. About 85 percent of
public housing was privatized.
52. The Government recognizes that the task of privatization is not over. The State still
owns a large amount of productive assets. The Government intends to implement a large
scale program of privatization for cash. This new privatization strategy will help
encourage domestic and foreign investment; bring about a rapid restructuring of the
privatized companies; and generate revenues.
53. The Privatization Program for 1997-1998 (97/98 PP) was approved by the Parliament
on June 26, 1997. The 97/98 PP contains most of the remaining state-owned productive
assets, including:
* premises of all small sized enterprises which were leased;
* the land under privatized enterprises;
* small-scale enterprises which were already approved for cash privatization,
but remained unsold;
- most state shares in joint stock companies;
- most small, medium and large enterprises which were left out of the previous
privatization programs; and
* infrastructure enterprises, including energy and telecom companies.
54. The Government understands that leased vremises must be sold in order to encourage
small private businesses and develop the real estate market. The Government has
identified about 2,000 leased premises as potential candidates for privatization. The sale
of these leased premises has started. The Ministry of Privatization has received 150
applications for buying leased premises and has approved and processed 75. Under the
Government's program, 200 of these leased premises were offered for sale by May 1997.
By December 1997, a further 300 premises will be offered for sale, and 500 more will be
offered for sale by mid-1998.
55. The Government recognizes that the sale of land under privatized enterprises will
support faster restructuring, making these enterprises more attractive for local and foreign
investors, and providing them with collateral for bank lending. To accelerate this
process, the high normative prices for land have been reduced by Parliament, and the
Government has started implementing Regulation No. 562, dated October 23, 1996, on
the sale of land under privatized enterprises. By June 1998, the target is to sell land under
25 percent of privatized firms, with a further 25 percent to be sold by the first quarter of
1999.  If needed, the Government will take further measures to accelerate land
privatization.
56. The results of cash privatization have been below expectations. Of 224 small
enterprises approved for cash privatization under the previous program only 97 were sold.
To expand cash privatization. the Government has started to reduce the starting price after
the first auction if the enterprise is not sold. Further, "Dutch auctions" have been



Annex 4
Page 14 of 14
introduced for the sale of small scale objects. The Government is committed to extending
this method of auction.
57. The Government is committed to encourage the participation of Moldovan citizens in
cash privatization. It has included in the Privatization Program regulations to allow
Moldovans to participate in cash privatization by buying a small number of shares.
58. For medium and large joint stock companies, the Government will issue international
tenders for the cash privatization of five companies by December 1997, and a further 17
companies by mid-1998. In addition, it will offer for sale the State's remaining shares in
25 percent of the joint-stock companies that were originally to be privatized for
patrimonial bonds by December 1997, offering a further 25 percent by mid-1998.
Finally, it will take all measures necessary to privatize seven medium and large
enterprises that were included in the restructuring program supported by SAL I.
59. Each joint stock company or SOE included in the 97/98 PP will require a feasibility
study in order to choose an appropriate privatization strategy (based on its size, profile
and market condition). The 97/98 PP includes a large menu of privatization methods
such as auctions; selling of shares through the Stock Exchange; public offering; trade
sales; debt-equity swaps; capitalization of the privatized enterprises and bankruptcy and
liquidation. The Government is continuing its program of institutional strengthening and
technical assistance for the Ministry of Privatization.
60. The Government will continue its efforts to develop its reform plan for the longer
term. As a part of this process, in January 1998, it will examine the draft Mid-Term
Strategy of Sustainable Development of Republic of Moldova, prepared by the Center for
Strategic Studies and Reforms which is supported by the World Bank and UNDP.
Ion Ciubuc
Prime Minister



Annex 5
Page I of 7
MOLDOVA: SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Matrix of Policy Conditionalitv
(Note: Core conditionalities are in bold)
-      - OBJECTIVES                                                                   ACTIONS
A. MACROECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY
Ensure the social and economic          Taken Prior to April 1997    Taken prior to September 1997            Prior to                    Prior to
sustainability of fiscal adjustment                                                                       Second Tranche               Third Tranche
1. Eliminate budgetary arrears      .  Adopted a realistic 1997      *  Satisfactory implementation   .   Maintain agreed        .   Maintain agreed macro-
(especially to wage earners, the    budget. The budget eliminates    of 1997 budget.                macroeconomic framework,   economic framework,
Social Fund, and the energy sector),   VAT exemptions, increases excise   .   Improved revenue      including no increase in     including reduction in
by improving revenue performance,   taxes, improves enforcement, and   collections, ensured no increase   general budgetary arrears  general budgetary arrears
rationalizing expenditures, and     freezes or decreases most       in total arrears from 1997 general  from the level of such arrears  as agreed with the Bank.
reducing unplanned shocks to the    expenditure items, while providing   budget, and adhered to the  as at December 31, 1996.    .  Continued progress in
budget.                             adequate funding for wages,      guarantees ceiling.                                         macroeconomic stabilization,
payroll taxes and energy. It also                                                           .   Progress in expenditure
set a ceiling on new Government                                                             rationalization, especially in
guarantees.                                                                                 social sectors.
*   Parliament adopted the                                                                   .  Adoption by Parliament
general framework and the chapter                                                           of the remaining articles of
on income taxes of the new Tax                                                              the draft revised tax code
Code.                                                                                       agreed with the Bank
(including chapters on VAT
and land tax).
2. Strengthen budgetary             .  The Ministry of Finance has                                  *   Satisfactory             .   Satisfactory
management                          mandated improved financial                                     implementation of the        implementation    of   the
reporting by Government agencies,                              mechanism for improving       mechanism  for  improving
and the 1997 budget law included a                             financial discipline of local  financial discipline of local
mechanism for improving financial                              governments.                  governments.
discipline of local governments.
3. Enhance domestic capacity for    .   Started operations of the                                   .   SSC to monitor           *   SSC to monitor
macro-economic analysis and policy   Strategic Studies Center (SSC)                                 implementation of SAL II     implementation of SAL II
formulation                                                                                         program.                     program.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 7
B. PENSIONS AND SOCIAL
PROTECTION REFORMS                      Taken Priorto April 1997     Taken prior to September 1997             Prior to                    Priorto
Reforn the system of pensions and                                                                         Second Tranche                Third Tranche
social assistance to one that is viable
and equitable
1. Make the Social Fund fiscally    .   Passage of a viable 1997     .   Prepared 1998 Social Fund   *   Implementation of savings    .  Implementation of
viable                               Social Fund budget by Parliament.  budget incorporating measures  measures                    savings measures.
*   Freezing of nominal pensions,  projected to save 25 million lei in
reduction in payroll taxes, and  expenditures in 1998.
lowered administrative
expenditures.
2. Provide regular payments to    0*   Covered the 1997 Social Fund  .   Continued timely payments   *  Continuation of timely     *  Continuation of timely
pensioners and recipients of social    deficit by a transfer from the State   to pensioners.       payments to pensioners.         payments to pensioners.
assistance                          budget, to ensure that 1997      .   Payments for January
liabilities are met in time.    through May 1997 made on time,
and pension arrears reduced by
about 60 percent.                                                         :
3. Reform the pension system to an    .   Produced a draft strategy  .  Adopted Government          *   Enactment of a law, and    .  Continued progress in
equitable and fair three-pillar system    paper for reform of the public  resolution endorsing the  adoption of implementing       implementating measures
pension and social protection   conclusions of the strategy paper  regulations, in each case  under the new laws on
systems.                        and outlining the directions of  satisfactory to the Bank, on  public pensions, social
.   Established a permanent     reforms of the public pension  public pensions and social     protection systems, and
working group with representatives  system.                    protection systems.            non-state pension funds.
from Government and outside                                    *  Enactment of a law and      .   Establishment of a
Government, for the preparation of                             adoption of implementing       regulatory body for non-
a new law on non-state pension                                 regulations, in each case      state pension funds.
funds.                                                         satisfactory to the Bank, on
non-state pension fund.



Annex 5
Page 3 of 7
OBJECTIVES                                                                      ACTIONS
C. ENERGY REFORMS
Restore the sector's financial viability  Taken Prior to April 1997    Taken prior to September 1997              Prior to                     Prior to
and improve quality of energy                                                                                 Second Tranche                Third Tranche
services.
1. Restore the energy sector's       .   Prepared a Debt-             .   Increased energy tariffs and    *   Maintain energy prices and   .   Maintain energy prices
financial equilibrium, and stop the   Management Plan (DMP) and       prices further, to attain full cost  tariffs at such levels so as to  and tariffs so as to ensure
build-up of energy-related external  restructured the stock of payables   recovery.                    ensure full cost recovery in  full cost recovery in
debt                                 and receivables of Moldovagas,   *   Issued resolution to formally   accordance with the DMP.    accordance with the DMP.
Moldenergo, Termocom and        adopt Debt Management Plan       *   End-user collections for   *   Full elimination of cross
Termocomenergo.                 (DMP) and adopted a schedule to  first six months of 1997 will be    subsidies for gas and
.   Increased, effective March  fully eliminate cross subsidies in    at least 80% for Moldenergo  electricity and introduction of
1997, the prices and tariffs of  the energy sector.              and 50% for Moldovagas. By     uniform tariff for all
electricity, heat and gas.                                       the end of 1997, the targets will  categories of consumers of
be 100% for both.             heat.
.   No decrease in
collection rates below those
in 1997.
.   Reduction in subsidies
to privileged groups, and
subsidies funded from State
budget.



Annex 5
Page 4 of 7
C. ENERGY REFORMS                       Taken Prior to April 1997    Taken prior to September 1997               Prior to                      Prior to
(CONTINUED)                                                                                                 Second Tranche                  Third Tranche
2. Impose domestic financial         *   Started implementing the    .   Adopted detailed de-        *   Enactment by Parliament of   .   Transfer the
discipline and hard budget          surcharge applicable to electricity   monopolization plan and the  detailed individual privatization  responsibility for regulating
constraints, and improve quality of   consumption above the norms set  principles for privatization of the    projects for the gas and electricity  the district heating sub-sector
energy services for consumers,      by Government Resolution 807 of  gas and electricity industries.  industries, satisfactory to the  to the municipalities.
through demonopolization and         December 1995.                  .   Established a National      Bank.                           *   Offer for sale to private
privatization of the energy sector  .   Adopted a plan to de-        Agency to regulate the energy   .   Establish joint stock       investors at least 51
monopolizethe distributionand   sector.                         companies to own and operate   percent of the total shares
marketing of oil products by selling                            the Borrower's power            in each of the joint-stock
parts of the depots and transport                               generation plants, low voltage  companies that own and
assets of Tirex Petrol to private                               distribution system, high       operate the Borrower's
investors.                                                      voltage transmission system     electric generation and low
and dispatch center.            voltage distribution
*   Offer for sale to private  facilities.
investors no less than 51
percent of the total shares in
each of the joint stock
companies that own and
operate low-pressure gas
pipelines.
*   Transform regulatory Agency
into non-state regulatory body.
*   Regulatory body to have
issued specific licenses to all
eligible entities in the natural gas
and electricity sub-sectors.
.   Offer for sale no less than 51
percent of the total shares in
Tirex Petrol to private investors.
3. Ensure a minimum supply of       *   Adopted measures to                                                                          .   Ensure sufficient
energy for poor households          mitigate the impact of energy price                                                             targeting of measures to
increases on poor and vulnerable                                                                make energy affordable to the
groups                                                                                          poor and vulnerable groups .



Annex 5
Page 5 of 7
OBJECTIVES                                                                         ACTIONS
D.AGRICULTURAL REFORMS
Lay the foundations for land reform,      Taken Prior to April 1997      Taken prior to September 1997               Prior to                      Prior to
agricultural growth and rural                                                                                    Second Tranche                 Third Tranche
development
1. Accelerate the process of farm      . Improved exit and registration  .   Adopted the process for      .   Achievement of progress   .   Achievement of
restructuring and land privatization,    procedures and performance     providing the fiscal and statistical   satisfactory to the Bank in the  progress satisfactory to
and ensure that it is done in an open,  standards for establishment of  identification numbers for the    restructuring of former         the Bank in the
fair and transparent manner.           private farms.                   farms registered as legal entities    collective and state farms in    restructuring of former
Farmers will have the right to exit, or   . Reviewed farm restructuring  at the local level, and simplified  accordance with criteria     collective and state farms
to continue farming in any system      pilot projects, disseminated the  the farm registration process.   agreed between the Borrower  in accordance with criteria
they choose.                           experiences and prepared a                                         and the Bank. The target is     agreed with the Bank. The
program to extend these projects                                   125 farms.                      target is an additional 125
to the national level.                                                                             farms.
. Initiated functioning of the
Agricultural Restructuring Agency
for farm privatization and
restructuring.
2. Create an efficient market for land,   * Moratorium on land sales    .   Adopted the Law on the        *   Completion of a review of    *   Progress satisfactory to
by reducing normative prices and      removed by decision of             Normative Price of Land and Land  functioning of the land market.   the Bank in land titling under
eliminating regulatory impediments.    Constitutional Court.            Tradability, to remove lease      .   Implementation of           a unified parcel-based
* Established the national Agency   control for privately owned land  measures satisfactory to the    system, with a target of at
for Geodesy, Cartography and      and provide the legal framework  Bank to remove any              least 10 percent of private
Cadastre to implement national    for land sales.                  impediments to the              beneficiaries.
cadastre system.                 .   Removed requirement that      functioning of the land
Raion Executive Committees       market including, if
approve land allocations for     necessary, adoption by
persons exiting ex-collective and    Parliament of amendments to
state farms.                     the Law on the Normative
Price of Land and Land
Tradability. This may include
the further lowering of the
transfer tax on land.
*   Progress satisfactory to the
Bank in land titling under a
unified parcel-based system,
with a target of at least 5
.___________________________________  _______________________________   __________________________  percent   of   privapercent  of  private     beneficiaries.



Annex 5
Page 6 of 7
D. AGRICULTURAL REFORMS (CONTINUED)     Taken Prior to April 1997    Taken prior to September 1997             Prior to                    Prior to
Second Tranche               Third Tranche
3. Liberalize rural and agricultural  .   Liberalized prices and    *   Initiated a review of the   *  Submission to the Bank    *  Achievement of
markets, and enhance efficiency by   marketing regimes.              systems of direct and indirect  of a study satisfactory to the    progress satisfactory to
reducing tax/subsidy distortions.   *   Progress in demonopolizing    taxes/subsidies in agriculture.  Bank of the systems of direct  the Bank in implementing
input supply and grain handling.    .   Developed procedures to  and indirect taxation and   the agreed
*  Completion of first phase of    apply new public procurement  subsidies in the agricultural    recommendations of the
privatization of agro-processing.    system to grain purchases, and  sector including        study of the systems of
ensure grain exports do not     recommendations for the      direct and indirect
require prior permissions.     reduction of subsidies and    taxation and subsidies in
tax reforms.                 the agricultural sector.
.  Measures satisfactory to   *   Measures satisfactory
the Bank shall have been     to the Bank shall have
taken towards the             been taken towards the
privatization of all units of the   privatization of units of
agricultural, former parastatal  the agricultural, former
entity, Fertilitate.         parastatal entity, Cereale
I as agreed with the Bank.



Annex 5
Page 7 of 7
OBJECTIVES               .                                                       ACTIONS
E. PRIVATIZATION
Accelerate small scale privatization     Taken Prior to April 1997     Taken prior to September 1997               Prior to                     Prior to
and development of small business                                                                              Second Tranche                Third Tranche
1. Privatize urban real estate and   . Privatized 85 percent of public    . Lowered the normative price of   . Achievement of progress  . Achievement of
create a market for it               housing                          land under enterprises as agreed    satisfactory to the Bank in the  progress satisfactory to the
with the Bank.                   sale of land under privatized   Bank in the sale of land
* Offered for sale 200 leased    enterprises. The target is to sell   under privatized
premises of small scale firms    land under 25% of privatized    enterprises. The target is
(shops, coffee houses etc.).     enterprises                     to sell land under an
* Sell additional leased premises   additional 25% of
of small scale firms. The target is  privatized enterprises.
300 additional enterprises.     * Sale of additional leased
premises of small-scale
firms. The target is 500
.__________________ _   _additional enterprises.
2. Start privatizing medium and large   .   A comprehensive           .   Enacted the 1997/98          * Achievement of progress       . Achievement of
scale enterprises for cash, and to   privatization program for 1997/98    privatization program.       satisfactory to the Bank in     progress satisfactory to
strategic investors, to encourage    adopted by Government.           .   Eliminated barriers to cash  implementing the 1997/98        the Bank in
domestic and foreign investment and   .   Included in the privatization    privatization of small-scale firms.    privatization program.  implementing the
bring about a rapid restructuring of    program regulations to allow  .   Prepared a technical         . Offer for sale the state's shares   1997/98 privatization
the privatized companies. Ensure     Moldovans to participate in cash  assistance program, satisfactory to  in 7 medium and large former  program.
that privatization is carried out in a    privatization by buying a small  the Bank, to support the    SOEs, restructured under pilot
fair and transparent manner          number of shares.               implementation of the 1997/98     restructuring program.
.   Held "Dutch auctions", to   privatization program.
ensure more flexible prices if firm    *   Conducted a review of the
is not sold at asking price.    functioning of the Share Registry
and transfer privatized companies
to that registry.
3. Complete the mass privatization   .   Approved a resolution setting  _                                Offer for sale the state's    . Offer for sale the state's
program                              the mechanisms for the sale of                                    remaining shares in 25% of JSCs   remaining shares in an
shares still held by the State but                               that were to be privatized for   additional 25% of JSCs
approved to be privatized for                                    patrimonial bonds.               that were to be privatized
_______________________X__________  patrimonial bonds.                                                                                  for patrimonial bonds.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






IBRD 24285R3
28- 
5<Dnev \ t o Nemirov lM   O L D  O V A
To Nem,oi,oM                                                     L DA
oilev-           U  K  R  A  I N   E
r\                         I~~~~~~~~~~oo'skiy
fBriceni   ;g  ,   \    Towi-itsr           0    SELECTED CITIES
NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS
48B8                               R                               C     X   \           48            |  l  |  RAILROADS
Floresfi' 4   <0   >ROADS
r( \ Rbnita i' - j INTERNATIONAL
a t <                      Rezinov                              BOUNDARIES
V   %<                                              \!   /    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~300
t L \ VOrhei                            Th\ >. rhe boundoi-esr
X \<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~arasi                                     Dl                           rhp. Wrld B..  G o .. pF  n
tffl  Jngheni  fk        \         K  ) \                           stotu5 of ony t-ritony,
tX~~~~~~~~~T!                                                               Gr orioppl"               0r ..yprzr - f--f-t
NRIN
>  T  \U                   7/59 \|                     To~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.Kyiv
tg                         n c e s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~neti      Bend4
%/<    1             f tt         /  \                            19    t)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T a Odeso
0            25                50lCiiliXt
R         O M    A  N  I A                                                                          Tio Odn
MILES~~~~~~~~~~~
\                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~To Biriad  o Cmratt  I                                      rb>X
A /> | ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To Artsie                                    TO Tat.ruoy   
-460 '    U  K  R  A  I N    E                                                                                                           461
iA   Jurdiulesli4|                                              '                  BLAC K
KILOMETERS I4/T  uhw                                                 f+Z
0~ ~ ~       2     0                   C, ond consoto.  
MILES                                                                                                               1997
APRIL 1997









IMAGING
Report No.: P      7139  iviD
Type:     PR



