Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3170 MD
Development Credit Agreement
(Social Investment Fund Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 17, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3170 MD 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 17, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower intends to secure from the Swedish International Development 
and Cooperation Agency (SIDA) grant funding (the SIDA Grant or Grants) in an amount 
equivalent to U.S. Dollars one million two hundred and fifty thousand ($1,250,000) to 
assist in financing Parts A(2), B and C of the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement or agreements (the SIDA Grant Agreement or Agreements) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and SIDA; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Page  2
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 
1997, with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12. ‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets 
the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 183 of 
the Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Beneficiary” means any community, organization or agency eligible for 
assistance under the Project; 
(b)
“Beneficiary Association” means the voluntary association to be 
established in selected communities to undertake the operation and maintenance of 
Microprojects (hereinafter defined) on behalf of Beneficiaries; 
(c)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(e)
“Framework Agreement” means the agreement to be concluded between MSIF 
(hereinafter defined) and an Implementing Agency (hereinafter defined) acting on 
behalf of a Beneficiary, in accordance with the provisions of Part B of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules to the Framework Agreement;
(f)
“Implementing Agency” means any community based organization or agency 
identified by a Beneficiary to be responsible for implementation of the Microproject 
(hereinafter defined) concerned on behalf of the Beneficiary; 
(g)
“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and MSIF pursuant to the provisions of Part A.1 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(h)
“Lei” means the lawful currency of the Borrower; 
(i)
“Microproject” means the activities to be carried out by an Implementing 
Agency in utilization of assistance made available to a Beneficiary; 
(j)
“MSIF” means the Moldova Social Investment Fund, or any successor 
thereto, established under the Borrower’s Decision No. 468 of May 19, 1997, as an 
autonomous public interest agency, created by the Borrower to contribute to poverty 
alleviation in rural communities and among disadvantaged groups; 
(k)
“National Board” means the National Board established by the Borrower to 
Page  3
provide policy guidance and oversight of Project implementation;
(l)
“MIS” means the Management Information System established by the Borrower 
to provide computerized monitoring and up-to-date data on Project implementation; 
(m)
“OM” means the Operational Manual, and such term includes all attachments 
supplemental to the OM, adopted by MSIF, to govern the selection of Beneficiaries and 
Implementing Agencies and the selection, appraisal and supervision of Microprojects, 
and to determine the terms applicable to assistance provided by MSIF under the 
Project;  
(n)
“Performance Contract” means the contract referred to in Part C of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(o)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit established by the Borrower 
within the MSIF for purposes of Project management; 
(p)
“Project Account” means the Account to be opened by the Borrower, for 
purposes of making available its counterpart contribution to the financing of the 
Project, in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement;  
(q)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
May 9, 1997 and May 15, 1997 between the Borrower and the Association; 
(r)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and 
(s)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ten million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 10,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of: 
(i) the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts C and D of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) withdrawals 
made on account of Microprojects under Part A of the Project. 
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 2004, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
Page  4
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year. Section 2.07. (a) Subject to 
paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of 
the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1 
commencing  March 1, 2009 and ending September 1, 2033. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on September 1, 2018 shall be one and one-fourth 
percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause 
MSIF to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, engineering, administrative, poverty alleviation and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
Page  5
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall cause MSIF to carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to MSIF 
under the Implementation Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and MSIF, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, 
including those set forth in Part A.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Implementation Agreement 
in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive, the 
Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) maintain the Project Account referred to in 
Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, and shall replenish said account promptly before 
each month with sufficient funds to enable the Borrower to meet its obligations under 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement for such period; (b) use the amount in said Project 
Account for financing the Borrower’s contribution to Project expenditures; and (c) 
ensure that sufficient annual allocations will be made in the Borrower’s budget for 
the Borrower’s counterpart contribution to the costs of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause MSIF to establish and maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause MSIF to:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year: 
(A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion on such financial statements, records 
and accounts and a report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  6
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during each fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause MSIF to carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial management system 
referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not 
later than December 31,1999, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of 
which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Page  7
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement 
providing therefore; or
(B) 
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement; 
(b)
the OM shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated or waived without 
the Association’s prior consent; and 
(c)
the Borrower or MSIF shall have failed to perform any of their respective 
obligations under the Implementation Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (a) (ii) of that Section; 
and 
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the SIDA Grant Agreement or Agreements in the amount indicated in Recital 
B of the Preamble to this Agreement has or have been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its or their effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Development Credit 
Agreement, have been fulfilled; 
(b)
the Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and MSIF;  
(c)
the Borrower has opened in Lei the Project Account in the National Bank 
of Moldova or in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, and has deposited 
into said account an initial amount equivalent to $75,000; and 
(d)
the Borrower has submitted to the Association a financial audit report 
for fiscal year 1998, satisfactory to the Association, for Project preparation 
activities financed from the Project Preparation Advance and other resources.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Cosmonaut Street, 7
277005 Chisinau
Republic of Moldova
Telex:
(3732) 22810
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Chisinau, Republic of Moldova, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
By /s/ Ion Sturza 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Grawe 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  9
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Microprojects
(a)  under Part A (1) of 
  7,800,000
85% of amounts the Project
disbursed under
Framework Agreements
(b)  under Part A (2) of
    360,000
35% of amounts the Project
disbursed under
Framework Agreements
(2)
Goods under Part D 
     22,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures, 
100% of local
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expenditures 
for other items procured 
locally
(3)
Consultants’
    866,000
100%
Services including  
technical audits,  
training and studies
(4)
PMU’s Operating Costs
    722,000
100%
(5)
Refunding of Project
    360,000
Amount due pursuant 
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
    770,000
TOTAL
 10,900,000
 ========== 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term “PMU’s Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred by the PMU 
on account of management of Project implementation for salaries, but excluding 
salaries of civil servants, communications, local travel, utilities, printing and 
publications, office supplies, vehicle rental, office maintenance, vehicle 
maintenance, including repair, insurance, inspection and fuel, parking fees, bank 
charges, and such other expenditures as may be agreed upon by the Association. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) contracts for works 
costing less than $75,000 equivalent each with the exception of all contracts for 
works under the first three Microrprojects in each of the Microprojects categories of 
infrastructure, non-infrastructure and Microprojects targeted to children’s 
development and de-institutionalization, for which contracts withdrawals may be made 
on this basis of statements of expenditures only after they have been reviewed by the 
Page  10
Association in accordance with the provisions of Part C.2 of Section I of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement; (b) contracts for goods costing less than $50,000 equivalent each 
with the exception of: (i) all contracts for goods under the first three Microprojects 
in each of the Microprojects categories of infrastructure, non-infrastructure and 
Microprojects targeted to children’s development and de-institutionalization under 
Part A of the Project, for which contracts withdrawals may be made on this basis of 
statements of expenditures only after they have been reviewed by the Association in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.2 of Section I of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and (ii) the first contract for goods under Part D of the Project, for  
which contract withdrawals may be made on this basis of statements of expenditures 
only after it has been reviewed by the Association in accordance with the provisions 
of Part C.2 of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (c) all contracts for 
training; (d) all contracts for technical audits; and (e) services under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent 
each for individual consultants, with the exception of the first three contracts for 
services under Microprojects, for which contracts withdrawals may be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures only after  they have been reviewed by the Association 
in accordance with the provisions of Part C.2 of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
B.
Special Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Page  11
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not Made  
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $600,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Page  12
Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,200,000.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to improve the quality of basic social and 
economic services for poor rural populations, and to increase the capacity of local 
communities to organize and manage development activities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Microprojects
The selection and carrying out in accordance with the criteria and principles 
set forth in the OM of: 
(1)
demand-driven infrastructure and non-infrastructure Microprojects prepared by 
Beneficiaries; and 
(2)
targeted Microprojects for strengthening institutionalized children’s social 
development and promoting said children’s de-institutionalization.
Part B:
Children’s Social Development and De-institutionalization
Provision of technical assistance and training to care-givers of 
institutionalized children with special needs.
Part C:
Capacity Building
Page  13
Provision of technical assistance and training to Beneficiaries for local 
capacity building for community development, organization and management.
Part D:
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance, equipment and operating costs for the 
operation of the PMU.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement  
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section 
I.  
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and Participating Country”.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods and works required for the carrying out of Microprojects under Part A of 
the Project, estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $11,653,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Readily available, off-the-shelf, goods of standard specifications estimated to 
cost less than $15,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $33,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) all contracts under the first three Microprojects in each 
of the Microproject categories of infrastructure, non-infrastructure, and 
Microprojects targeted to strengthening children’s social development and 
de-institutionalization, under Part A of the Project; and (b) the first contract for 
goods under Part D of the Project, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Page  14
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines), subject to the modifications thereto 
set forth in paragraph 2 of this part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for: (a) design and engineering preparation for Microprojects and (b) 
technical audits, estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical assistance, training, studies, workshops, and conferences 
under Part C of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services under Parts A, C, and D of the Project for tasks that meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Single Source Selection
Services for specialized tasks under Parts A and C of the Project which are 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) contracts to be 
Page  15
procured under least cost selection procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
Part B.1 of Section II of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to the first three contracts for services under 
Microprojects, the procedures set forth in subparagraph (a) above and the procedures 
set forth in subparagraph (b) above shall apply to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms and contracts for the employment of individual consultants 
respectively. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
Part A:
Project Management
1.
The Borrower shall cause MSIF to carry out the Project through the PMU, in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the OM and the 
Implementation Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and MSIF under terms 
and conditions which shall have been agreed upon with the Association and which shall 
include, inter alia, provisions whereby: (a) the Borrower shall make the proceeds of 
the Credit available to MSIF in the form of a grant; (b) MSIF shall be required to 
implement the Project in accordance with the OM and the provisions of this Credit 
Agreement; and (c) MSIF shall be required as part of its responsibility for Project 
implementation: (i) to prepare and furnish to the Association, by March 31 in each 
year, for its review and concurrence, an annual work program for the Project; (ii) to 
maintain the Project financial records and accounts and to arrange for the audit 
thereof; (iii) to prepare applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the Credit; 
(iv) to assist the Implementing Agencies in the preparation of bidding and contract 
documents for activities to be financed under the Framework Agreement and to ensure 
that goods, works and services are procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (v) to supervise the implementation of the Project, 
including supervising the progress of each Microproject; and (vi) to prepare and 
furnish to the Borrower and the Association, starting in June 1999, semi-annual 
reports on the progress of Project implementation.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure the inclusion in the OM at all times, of provisions, 
satisfactory to the Association, governing MSIF’s activities under the Project, 
concerning inter alia: (a) eligibility criteria for Beneficiaries and Implementing 
Agencies; (b) the principles and procedures to be followed for the promotion, 
appraisal, approval and supervision of Microprojects; (c) the terms and conditions to 
be included in the Framework Agreements; (d) the indicators to be utilized by MSIF in 
monitoring the progress of the Project; and (e) the financial management system to be 
adopted by MSIF to control the use of funds made available to it for purposes of the 
Project. 
3.
The Borrower shall cause MSIF to ensure participation by Beneficiaries, in 
accordance with the principles set forth in the OM, in the preparation of the 
Microprojects.
4.
The Borrower shall cause MSIF to maintain the PMU until completion of the 
Project, with composition and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
5.
The Borrower shall maintain the National Board until completion of the Project 
Page  16
with composition and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
6.
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure completion of the MIS 
user’s manual, satisfactory to the Association, by May 1, 2000.
Part B:
Funding of Microprojects
1.
For purposes of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall cause MSIF to approve 
Microprojects for financing from the proceeds of the Credit on the basis of an order 
of priority established in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in 
the OM.
2.
The Borrower shall cause MSIF to provide financing for approved Microprojects on 
the basis of a Framework Agreement, to be entered into between MSIF and an 
Implementing Agency on behalf of a Beneficiary (or Beneficiaries). Each Framework 
Agreement shall include, inter alia:
(a)
a description of the Microproject, together with an estimate of the cost 
thereof;
(b)
the implementation schedule for the Microproject;
(c)
the degree to which cost sharing, in accordance with the principles set 
forth in the OM, shall be required to be made by the Beneficiary with respect to the 
financing of the Microproject for the implementation of which assistance is provided 
to such Beneficiary under the Framework Agreement;
(d)
the obligation of the Implementing Agency to procure goods, works and 
services to be financed under the Framework Agreement in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in the OM; 
(e)
the obligation of the Implementing Agency to report to MSIF on the 
progress of Microproject implementation and to enable representatives of MSIF and of 
the Association, if the Association shall so request, to visit the facilities, 
construction sites or other activities to be financed under the Framework Agreement; 
and
(f)
the obligation of the Implementing Agency to maintain records and 
accounts for expenditures incurred under the Microproject and financed from the 
proceeds of the Credit made available to the Implementing Agency under the Framework 
Agreement and to submit to MSIF at regular intervals statements with respect to such 
records and accounts.
3.
The Borrower shall cause MSIF to: (a) obtain the Association’s prior approval of 
the first three Framework Agreements proposed by it in each of the Microprojects 
categories of infrastructure, non-infrastructure, and Microprojects targeted to 
strengthening children’s social development and de-institutionalization; and (b) 
include in the progress reports referred to in paragraph A.1 (c)(vi) above, based on 
externally contracted annual reviews of sample of completed Microprojects, information 
and analysis adequate to support the conclusion that the selection of Microprojects, 
Beneficiaries, and Implementing Agencies and the determination of the terms and 
conditions of Framework Agreements are all made in accordance with the principles set 
forth in the OM.
Part C:
Operation and Maintenance of Microprojects
The Borrower shall cause MSIF to: (a) prepare and furnish to the Association for 
its review and concurrence a draft contract (Performance Contract) for operation and 
maintenance of facilities included in selected Microprojects, to be concluded with 
Beneficiary Associations of such Microprojects upon the completion thereof, which 
shall describe inter alia, the requirement for sustainability of the benefits accruing 
for the Microproject;
 (b)
after taking into account the Association’s comments thereon finalize the 
content of said Performance Contract and conclude it on a pilot basis, with such 
Beneficiary Associations as the Association and the MSIF shall agree; and 
Page  17
(c)
include in the progress report referred to in Part A.1 (c)(vi) above 
information concerning implementation of Performance Contracts.
Part D:
Monitoring and Evaluation(
1.
The Borrower shall cause MSIF to:
(a)
employ, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement, consultants with qualifications, experience and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, to carry out annual technical audits of selected 
Microprojects, the first such audit to be carried out by October 1, 2000; and
(b)
submit the results of said audits upon completion thereon to the 
Association for its review and comment.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by March 31, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
