Report No. 317a-IRN                                                              FILE  C0:P*Y:
Appraisal of
The Industrial Credit Bank
of Iran
May 2, 1974
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CU  TE~ EQUIVALENr3
Cupec  Unit                    5      Iranian Rial
Up to Febyuaa7 18, 1973 US$1                  Rials 76.5
1 Rial               US$ 0.0307
1 million Rials    =     US$13.070
After February 18, 1973 US$1           -     Rials 68.17
1 Rial          =     115U0$ 0.147
1 million Rials           US$J14.699
~NOTE
1. The Iranian year runs from March 21 - March 20. F17 is the year March 21,
1970 - March 20, 1971. The Iranian year 1349 is the Gregorian year March 21,
1970 - March 20, 1971.
2. The four Year Plan covers the period March 1968 - March 1973. The Fifth
1tve Tear Plan covers the period 1973 - March 1978.
This report 'was prepared by Messrs. Bwnardus H. Pottk.r, Jose Luis M8 bru and
Antoine Kaunan, following their visit to Iran, October 5- 22, 1973 and updated
after negotiations with the Government and ICB'a representatives in Washingto
in April 1974.



APPRAISAL OF
THE INDUSTRIAL CRFDIT BANK
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASTr DATA ,.........................................
SUMMARY ........                      ..                              i - ii
I     IN"'RODITCTION   .... ;   ..* **.*******.****..******..**.               1
II.    T-I ENVIRONMENT .         ...    ............................            1
Industrial Development .            .... . .........    ......          2
Industrial Finance and the Role of ICR  ........                 ..     4
III.    THE COMPANY   ...             .........      .....                       5
B ackgr ound    .       ..........0..........5
Objectives and Scope #,***,a5...            ..              ..           5
Policies  ..... ..... 6. .. *..*O. ....  .."             ......          6
Board, Management and Staff                 ...........                  7
Organization ... ..... .  8
Procedures ... . .. .. . .. .    ...... .* ..      ............. * * a  9
IV.    OPERATIONS  ...       .      .    . ............. **...*...             12
Industrial Financing ...... **.*e ...............     12
Terms and Conditions of Financial Assistance .........   13
Promotion . * * . . .  . *. .*. . . * . . * . . * .*. .*   * . .  * . .. . . . .* . . . .*. . * *. I   1 4
Special Operations  ......................................   15
Managed Funds          .............. ..................    15
ICB'c Economic Impact *.......                                         15
V.    RESOURCES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE ........   16
Quality of Portfolio  ..........*..****              *.............*..   17
Financial- Structure ... *....*,e**.****              *.....* * ......     18
Profitabilitv ...................**.. ................    19
Audit ...................................................    19
VI.   PROSPECTS ..,..........,, 19
The Environment  ............................    19
ICB's Business Projections                                .......    20
Resource Requirements ....................                            21
Foreign Exchange Risk *...................   22
Financial Projections ...................                        .     23



Table of Contents (Continued)
VII.   CON1CLIUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......................    23
Conclusions . ................... ......                     23
Recomnendation *       **............ .................      24
LIST OF ANNEXES
1. Interest Rate Structure in Iran
2. Policy Statement
3. Board of Directors
4. Organization Chart
5. Summary of Operations 1960 - 1974
6. Comparative Statements of Loan Committed (FY61-FY73)
7. Comparative Statement of Equity Operations and Working Capital
Commitments (FY61-FY73)
8. ICB Interest Rates and Charges
9. Resource Position
10.  Analysis of Loan Portfolio, as of March 21. 1973
11. Equity Portfolio, as of March 20, 1973
12. Balance Sheets 1970-1973 (Audited) and 1974 (Unaudited)
13. Statement of Income 1970-1973 (Audited) and 1974 (Unaudited)
14. Projections:
A.  Major Assumptions Underlying the Projections 1975-79
B.   Projections of Business FY74-78
C.   Projected Statement of Income 1975-79
D.   Projected Balance Sheet FY75-79
E.   Projected Cash-Flow Statements FY75-79
15. Projected Disbursement Schedule



INDUSTRIAL CREDIT BANK
BASIC DATA
Year of Establishment       1956
Ownership (March 20, 197I4)                                      Number of Shares
(Par value Rials 10,000)
Plan Organization                                                 4,318
Shiar Company - Azarbaijan (Private)                                   1
Agricultural Machineries Company (Private)                             1
Operations (Rials million)                   Fiscal Year Ending Narch 20               (6 months)
1970        1971      1972          1973          1974
Approvals
Long-term loan                 645.4      1,052.0    2,204.0     2,654.4         6,927.0
Working capital loans           714.9       261.9      660.1      1,532.9        1,842.0
Equity investments              21.2        256.o       81.9        852.0        1,233.0
Guarantees                      594.4       195.8      219.6        525.9          630-3
17975.9        -7    3731.        - 5,565.7      10,632.3
Commitments
Long-term loans                770.7        897,0      652.6      3,664.8        3,489.0
Working capitals loans          535.7       389.9      660.1        909.2        1,946.0
Equity investments               21.2       256.o       81.9        852.0        1,233.0
Guarantees                     412.7        351-7      219.6        525.9          630.3
1,740.3 W   1,94.6    1,614.2       5,951.9        7,298.3
Disbursements
Long-term loans                720.3        674.6      795.9      1,840.2        2,982.0
Working capital loans           559.0       398.8      666.o        831.0        1,980.0
Equity investments             128.4         18.2      114,4           .           587 0
1,407.7     1,091.6   T1537         3,574.2        5,549 0
Financial Performance
Amount (Rials mTlion)
Total Assets G               5,657.4      6,578.8    7,124.6      9,768.4       14,118.0
(of which
Long-term loans        1,948.9      2,361,2    2,738.2     4,138.9         6,596-3
Equity investments       528.3        505.1      617-9     1,377.5         1,864.8
Working capital loans    877.7        945.3      884.7      1,281.5        2,352.5
Net Worth                     2,218.9     2,911,3    3,462.6      4,672.8        4,839.9
Long-term debt
Government                   193.0        4840o      476.o        476.0          976.0
Private                       -            -          -         1,136.1        2,299.7
Short-term debt
Government (Central Bank)    980.0        125.0      125.0         65.0        1,658.4
Guarantees                   1,108,9      1,204.7    1,023,4      1,071.9        1,020.3
Managed funds                 2,041.2     2,885.6   11,816.7    16,754.2        18,845.9
Ratios
Total debt/2/equity             2.0:1       1.7:1      1,4:1        1.3:1         2.1:1
Long-term debt/equity          0.5:1        0.5:1      0.4:1       0-5:1          0.8:1
Provisions/total portfolio     5.1%         5,5%       5-8%         4.3%          3-4:1
Total income/average total
assets                       5.3%         6.1%       6.2%         6.7%          9.0%
Administrative expense/
Average total assets          1.3%        1-3%       1,6%         1.4%          1.2%
Financial expense/Average
total assets                 0.3%         004%       o.6%         0.7%          2.1%
Net earnings/Average net
worth                         2.5%        3.5%       2.7%         2.9%          4-4%
Net earnings/Average share
capital                      2.8%         3-8%       3,0%         3-3%         4.8%
l  Ex-_'uding managed Fud,s.
/2  Lnc'1linlg G.arantees.
a  r.nulal Basis.
EMENA/IC&DFC
January 10, 1974






APPRAISAL OF THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT BANK OF IRAN
SUMMARY
i.        The Industrial Credit Bank (ICB) and the Industrial and Mining
Development Bank of Iran (IMDBI), which has received eight Bank loans total-
ling $280 million, remain the main sources of long-term industrial finance
for industry in Iran. The ICB has concentrated its financing on the medium
and small size industrial enterprises and is expected to do this even more
in the future.
ii.       The Iranian economy is growing at an impressive pace with industry
playing a leading role. The small and medium size industrial sector, which
has in the past not received the same attention and incentives as the large-
scale modern industrial sector, is now given more emphasis because the Govern-
ment realizes the possibilities for productivity increases in this sector.
Furthermore, the importance of smaller enterprises as feeder or user indus--
tries of the larger companies has been recognized. The Bank had made similar
recommendations in its industrial sector and economic reports.
iii.      The ICB was established in 1956.  In its early years it mainly
performed banking services for the Government. Since 1968, when ICB received
additional Government funds, it has become more active and loan commitments
in the year ending March 20, 1974, amounted to Rials 3.5 billion, equity sub-
scription to Rials 1.2 billion and other financial assistance (including
working capital loans and guarantees) to Rials 2.6 billion. Compared with
IMDBI, ICB has given more assistance to the smaller enterprises, has financed
projects which are based more on locally produced raw materials and has given
particularly assistance to projects located in the provinces.
iv.       Being a Government-owned bank, ICB has been subject to close Govern-
ment attention. ICB's Board consists only of Government representatives.
However, ICB has sufficient independence from the Government in its day to
day management and its Board has generally followed conservative, sometimes
even rather strict, banking principles.
v.        ICB's Managing Director, who has been in charge of ICB for more
than 10 years, is development oriented. The organization, although rather
compartmentalized, is suited to take care of the particular type of its
business and the staff is experienced and shows interest in its work. There
are several areas where improvements are required particularly in financial
and economic appraisal, the internal information system and the supervision
of projects. ICB hopes that an association with the Bank will help bring
about improvements.
vi.       Since September 1973, ICB generally charges 9% interest on its long-
termn loans, to reflect the higher cost of funds to ICB, the general increase
in interest rates in Iran and abroad, and the economic cost of capital in the
country. The other terms and conditions of ICB's loans are rather strict;



- ii -
a 200% security requirement for its loans, grace periods of in general six
months and amortization periods averaging, 5-1/2 years. With expected im-
provements in ICB's financial analysis, the terms and conditions of loans
should better reflect the repayment capacity of ICB's projects.
vii.      Business opportunities for ICB are buoyant given Iran's econcmic
position and emphasis on industry for its future development. Demand for
loan funds from economic and financially viable projects should therefore
not be a limitation for ICB's continued expansion. Rather, limitations will
stem from the ability of ICB to process and appraise projects. Resource re-
quirements are forecast to be large, particularly in relation to past exper-
ience. Commitments for the next five years are estimated at Rials 65.9 bil-
lion ($970 million) and resources needed to cover commitments up to March
1976 are forecast to amount to Rials 9.7 billion in local currency and $150
million in foreign currency. ICB will include permanent working capital re-
quirements in its financing plan for its projects. No allowance is made for
additional working capital loans, which will be left to the commercial banks.
viii.     A Bank loan of $25 million is recommended on the normal terms and
conditions of loans given to development finance companies. The discipline
imposed on ICB by an association with the Bank should also help ICB improving
the quality of its appraisal work and thereby its operations.
ix.       ICB is financially sound and profitable and is forecast to remain
so. The loan and equity portfolic is of generally good quality. ICB is
therefore a creditworthy borrower. Up to end FY1974, ICB's accounts were not
audited according to standards satisfactory to the Bank. New auditors were
selected by ICB and the Government, and accepted by the Bank during negotia-
tions. The accounts for FY74 should already be audited on standards satis-
factory to the Bank, but since ICB's accounts are generally well maintained,
a fresh audit before the loan is granted is not required.



APPRAISAL OF THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT BANK OF IRAN
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report appraises the Industrial Credit Bank (ICB), a government-
owned development finance company, for a proposed Bank loan of $25 million to
support industrial investment in Iran. ICB would be the second Iranian deve-
lopment finance company financed by the Bank. The first, the privately-owned
Industrial and Mining Development Bank of Iran (IMDBI), has received eight
Bank loans totaling $280 million since its establishment in 1959. While IMDBI
concentrates its financing in large-scale enterprises, ICB's efforts focus on
the medium-scale sector. Information on Iran's industrial sector is contained
in the report "Industrial Policies and Priorities in Iran" (SA-27a, dated
March 1, 1972), while the "Memorandum on Current Economic Developments in Iran"
(Report No. 49a-IRN, dated March 14, 1973) updates the report entitled "Current
Economic Prospects of Iran" (SA-23a, dated March 18, 1971). This report in-
corporates the findings of these reports as appropriate.
II. THE ENVIRONMENT
2.02      During the past decade Iran has been able to achieve an average
annual growth rate of about 11% in real GNP. The contribution of oil to
total GDP has been rising steadily from about 15.7% in FY 67 1/ to about
24.5% in FY73, reflecting, partly, improved sales terms. Oil receipts have
been an essential factor in Iran's economic development, providing the bulk
of the finance for the raw material and capital equipment needed for the
rapid expansion of domestic indust:rial production. Value added of industry
at constant prices increased in the last five years by an average annual rate
of 13% while the service sector grew at an even higher rate of 14%. Off-
setting these high growth rates, was the relatively poor performance of the
agricultural sector, whose contribution to GDP has continuously declined.
2.03      Gross domestic fixed capital foirmation at current prices has been
rising steadily due to a high and rising level of national savings especially
during the last three years. Except for a slight decline in FY71, domestic
capital formation has risen gradually from 22% of GNP in FY68 to over 25% in
FY73. Beginning with FY69, capital formation in the public sector overtook
that of the private sector and in FY73, public sector investments accounted
for 57% of total investments reflecting the large public investments in
infrastructure.
1/   The Fiscal Years in this report correspond to the Iranian years, which
run from March 21 to March 20. FY67 is the year ending March 1967.



-2-
2.04      Iran has generally been able to combine fast economic growth with
relative price stability. However, in the last two years, price rises have
also marked the Iran economy. The consumer price index rose by 6% in FY72
and an estimated 13% in FY73. These price rises are caused by scarcities and
inflationary pressures stemming from monetary expansion both abroad and in
Iran. In Iran the supply of money and quasi-money increased by 70% from FY71
to FY73, while in the same two year period credit to the private sector in-
creased by 57%. An active import and export policy (consisting essentially
of lowering duties and lifting quantitat:.ve restrictions, together with export
licenses and prohibitions) combined with a tight credit policy are used in an
attempt to restore balance between aggregate demand and supply.
Industrial Development
2.05      The objectives of industrialization as set out for the Fourth Plan
(FY68-73) were two-fold:
(i) make Iran independent of consumer goods, manufacture more
intermediate and capital goods, provide employment for a
growing part of the population and diversify exports of
locally-manufactured goods.
(ii) exploit as much as possible local raw materials and use them
in domestic production rather than export them.
2.06      With lagging agricultural output, the achievement of the second
objective was certainly less than planned. But achievements under the first
had been encouraging. At current market prices, the overall value added by
industry and mining, excluding construction and power, more than doubled bet-
ween FY68 and FY73, rising from Rials 70 billion to over Rials 164.2 billion.
During the same period, investment in industry and mining went from Rials
17.7 billion to Rials 44.6 billion while industrial employment was expanding
on average by 8% per year. In FY73, total industrial employment stood at
1.9 million workers. The production index for 17 industrial sectors (Ministry
of Economy) increased from 100 in FY68 to 191 in FY73. Although most of the
increase stems from increased manufacture of consumer goods, the fastest
growing sectors are basic metals, machinery, transport equipment and chemicals,
indicating a deepening of the industrial sector. Together with the expanded
production, exports of non-traditional manufactures (excluding oil) grew at
42% annually during the Fourth Plan, totalling $100 million in FY73 or 22%
of total non-oil exports against $25 million and 11% in FY69.
2.07      The increasing capitalization of-industry, the growing technical
complexity of investments and a trend towards vertical integration has led
to a change in the scale of operations. Although data on output and employ-
ment by size of establishment are scanty, those available show that less than
3% of manufacturing enterprises (employing ten or more workers) increased
their share of total output from 58% in FY65 to 66% in FY68 while accounting
for roughly one-third of industrial employment. This indicates that labor
productivity in large enterprises has increased more than in the smaller-sized
firms.



-3-
2.08      Industrial growth has flourished because natural resources were
available, labor was abundant, disciplined and adaptable, and entrepreneurship
developed well. Political stability, tariff protection, and an open policy
towards foreign investment also helped create a favorable investment climate,
while oil revenues contributed to foreign exchange resources.
2.09      However, industrialization has not been problem free, despite its
important achievements. Industry has tended to concentrate around Tehran and
has developed most in the final consumption products. Industry remains to a
large extent under the control of a limited number of individuals or families.
Furthermore, industry tended to be import dependent and not resource based.
Finally, industry was not export-oriented but rather looking to the local
mar:ket. These shortcomings have been recognized by the Government and a
strategy has been designed to overcome them. Several policy tools are being
employed, which are discussed below.
2.10      The industrial licensing system, together with a number of tax and
other incentives are actively used now to disperse industry away from Tehran.
Imports of capital goods, whose local production the Government is willing to
stimulate, are being subjected to quantitative restrictions while the manufac-
ture of intermediate products have become increasingly feasible. In order to
broaden company ownership, the Government has devised a scheme whereby workers
and the public at large can participate up to 49% in the larger industrial
enterprises. Tax and other benefits are being used to convert family-
controlled firms into public companies. Already 85 companies are earmarked
to become public in the next two years. Agriculture is receiving more atten-
tion from the Government and Rials 53.1 billion of next year's budget is
allocated for the agricultural sector. The low productivity of, agriculture
has been the main reason why agro-industry remained underdevelo)ed. This is
now expected to change. In order to foster exports, a new package of export
incentives has been made available to investors.  Increased efficiency in
Iran and price rises abroad have made exports more and more feasible. An
export Promotion Center has been established which, among others, extends
export credits. Furthermore, foreign firms establishing in Iran are, in
most cases, now obligated to export.
2.11      The importance of small and medium scale enterprises 1/ as feeder
or user industries of the large enterprises has been identified by the Bank's
industrial sector mission. 2/ The Government, partly on the Bank's recommen-
dations has re-evaluated its attitude towards this type of industry recogniz-
ing the potential for increasing productivity in the smaller enterprises. In
the past, the Government had left the financing of the smaller enterprises
1/   Small-scale industry is defined as enterprises with fixed assets of
$50,000-$500,000.   Medium-scale industry is defined as enterprises
with fixed assets of $500,000-$1.5 million.
2/   Report SA-27a, dated March 1, 1972.



-4-
to the commercial banks which, however, were not equipped to evaluate indus-
trial projects. Nor did the banks have the resources to extend long-term
credit. Furthermore, the licensing system has, albeit unintentionally, tended
to favor the larger entrepreneur. For the small entrepreneur, licensing,
which involves the preparation of papers, meeting unfamiliar licensing crite-
ria and travelling to Tehran, is a cumbersome procedural hurdle. But without
a license, entrepreneurs are not entitled to tariff or tax exemptions, to
preferential rates on public utilities and to credit from ICB or IMDBI. The
licensing system is now being liberalized and simplified and regional licens-
ing authorities are being set up. Credits to smaller entrepreneurs will be
made available, among others through ICB, on easier terms and conditions than
now available from the commercial banks. Industrial estates, which will have
separate facilities for the smaller entrepreneurs, are being planned and in-
dustrial training centers, the first one of which was opened recently in
Esfahan, are being set up.
Industrial Finance and the Role of ICB
2.12      IMDBI and ICB have been the major sources of long-term industrial
finance for medium and large scale industry, providing together about 20% of
fixed capital formation in private sector industry. Because the Govern-
ment's earlier industrial policy concentrated on the development of large
scale industry, the focus of the two main institutions for long-term indus-
trial finance overlapped. The IMDBI was particularly set up for that purpose
and has developed into an effective organization financing large projects
based on modern technology. The need for continued financing of this type of
projects remains. 1/ ICB has traditionally devoted its main attention to the
smaller size enterprises although ICB has not limited its operations to that
sector. A considerable amount of its resources have gone to a small number
of large important companies based on domestic resources and located in the
provinces. However, ICB's organization, staffing, ownership and relations
make it particularly suited for financing of smaller projects. ICB intends
to concentrate its emphasis on medium- and small-scale enterprise financing,
given the importance of these for future industrial development.
2.13      Largely because commercial banks are inexperienced with industrial
finance--they traditionally finance trade--there has been for some time an
acute shortage of short- and medium-term capital in industry, despite rapid
increases in bank deposits. Consequently ICB and IMDBI have felt it necessary
to extend medium-term credit to finance their client's needs for working capi-
tal. However, to meet the growing demand, four new commercial banks oriented
to industry were established in the last' year. IMDBI participates for 10%
in the share capital of two, while ICB participates in another for 7%. All
four banks have offered a significant share of their capital to the public
which responded enthusiastically.
1/   See Report No. 259a-IRN - "Appraisal of the Industrial and Mining
Development Bank of Iran - January 16, 1973."



-5-
2.14      In the past ICB followed a policy of relatively low interest rates,
which it considered necessary to develop the smaller enterprises and the
projects located in the provinces. Recently, it has adjusted its interest
rates upwards to reflect the increased cost of finance in Iran, the prevail-
ing rates charged by other institutions and the increased cost of its own re-
sources. Annex 1 shows the interest rates generally charged in Iran.
III. THE COMPANY
Background
3.01      ICB was established in 1956 to replace the Plan Organization Bank,
which had been created in 1951 to serve the banking needs of the Plan and
Budget Organization (PBO), which is the planning agency in charge of coor-
dination, selection and financing of the projects submitted by the different
MLinistries. Although ICB was to handle the banking needs of the PBO, it was
also to help develop private industry. In its first years of operations ICB
lacked resources and qualified technical staff; it was faced with sparse de-
mand at first, a competing Governmental industrial funding scheme, and from
1959 onwards, with competition from IMDBI. Since 1968, with a Plan appropria-
tion of Rials 3 billion and boom conditions in Iran, ICB became increasingly
active in both long and short-term industrial financing. From a mere exten-
sion of the PBO with little autonomy, ICB grew more into an entity in its own
right. It increasingly financed medium-sized enterprises and met financing
needs of enterprises in the provinces. These activities have become ICB's
principal value to Iran. ICB is now an institution of national importance
with assets of about $200 million (in addition, it manages some $280 million
of Government funds).
3.02      The Second Development Plan Law authorized the PBO to establish ICB
as a joint stock company. Except for two other nominal shareholders, as re-
quired by the Commercial Code, the PBO owns ICB's entire share capital. In
March 1973, at the time of the reorganization of the PBO, the Ministry of
Economy became ICB's immediate administrative supervisor. There was no sig-
nificant consequence, other than certain changes in the composition of ICB's
Board (see para. 3.09).
Objectives and Scope
3.03      ICB's original objectives, set out in its Statutes 1/, were to pro-
mote the development of industrial and mining firms in which private owner-
ship was 50% or more. An amendment of ICB's statutes in February 1972 em-
powered it to assist "industry, mining, transport and agro-industry and also
1/   A law.  Any alteration in the provisions of the Statutes is subject to
the provisions of the Law of Commerce. It also needs a decree of the
Council of Ministers.



- 6 -
development projects in fields such as medical treatment, education, sport,
hotel management and tourism".  These new sectors were included because they
are to receive special emphasis in the present Five-Year Plarn. No other fi-
nancial institution catered to their needs. ICB can extend loans, buy and
sell shares, issue guarantees, provide technical assistance and borrow abroad
and in Iran. However, it cannot undertake commercial banking activities ex-
cept for the banking needs of the P0 and its affiliated enterprises.
Policies
3.04      ICB's policies and operations reflect government priorities, par-
ticularly in regard to the type of clients and the sectors it serves, the size
of the enterprises it finances and the desired concentration of its financing
in the provinces. ICB enjoys, however, a satisfactory degree of autonomy in
its day-to-day operations and in its decisions regarding individual operations.
3.05      The Monetary and Banking Law, as amended in July 1972, gives the
Currency and Credit Council the power to inspect, request information and
give instructions to all Iranian banks, including ICB. ICB has decided to
outline its general objectives and policies in a single Policy Statement.
The Bank agreed to such Policy Statement, which was adopted by ICB's Board
on May 1, 1974 (Annex 2).  The Policy Statement provides for satisfactory
limits for ICB's equity participation in a single enterprise, aggregate ex-
posure in equity holdings and total exposure limits in a single enterprise.
3.06      Although ICB's total loan amount to any one enterprise, including
loans from sources other than ICB, should not normally exceed 50% of fixed
investment - a reflection of ICB's orientation to security - ICB has agreed
to trv to accommodate smaller entrepreneurs who cannot offer so much security
in otherwise good projects (see para 4.08). ICB does not normally extend
loans for less than Rials 3 million ($40,000 equivalent).
3.07      ICB considers the granting of working capital loans a specific
task of the commercial banks. However, when ICB is involved in financing an
enterprise it may extend working capital loans, provided such loans do not
exceed 25% of the project's fixed investment. In the last two years working
capital loans have grown rapidly reflecting the shortage of medium-term and
short-term credit in the country. Many of ICB's working capital loans were
made to operating plants which normally should have gone to the commercial
banks. During negotiations ICB undertook to include permanent working cap-
ital requirements in its financing plan for the projects it finances.
3.08      ICB will consider making equity investments when the capital require-
ments of a project are beyond the financial capability of the promoters; if a
project is important for the economic and social development of Iran; or if a
project is in serious difficulties and the injection of new funds and ICB's
participation in management may save it. A number of its investments have
been salvage operations (see evaluation of ICB's portfolio in paras. 4.03
and 5.10). However, in compliance with its objectives of encouraging private
stockholding, ICB is required, with due consideration to its interests, to



- 7 -
offer its shareholdings to the public as soon as a project yields attractive
returns. As a matter of policy, ICB always takes a seat on the board of a
company in which it makes an equity investment.
Board, Management and Staff
3.09      Board of Directors.  Before March 1973, when ICB was controlled by
the PBO, the Board consisted of three Directors representing the private in-
dustrial sector and two Directors from the Government (PBO and the Ministry
of Economy). Since March 1973, the Board was reorganized and ICB's Managing
Director, Dr. Alinaghi N. Farmanfarmanian, became its Chairman, while the
Deputy Managing Director, Mr. Ahmad Ziai, became a member. The other members
represent the Ministry of Economy, the PBO and the Ministry of Finance (see
Annex 3). Dr. Farmanfarmanian, Managing Director since 1959, was formerly
Director of Financial Affairs of the PBO. During his tenure, ICB has grad-
ually expanded its operations and taken on new activities, paying particular
attention to financing and developing medium-sized industries. Dr. Ziai, was
Deputy Managing Director already in 1964-65, and then became Legal Inspector
of ICB from 1966-71 when he was Vice-Chancellor of Tehran University. The
Government representatives, Mr. Abassgholi Bakhtiar (Ministry of Economy),
and Mr. Majid Mohiman (High Council of Insurance) are prominent public servants.
Mr. Rassol Bakhtiar (not related to the former) represented the Plan and Budget
Organization until he resigned early in 1974; his substitute has not yet been
nominated.
3.10      The Board closely controls ICB's affairs.  It meets once a week to
coasider loans and investments and to take up policy issues. ICB being a re-
ceiver of substantial amounts of public funds, it is understandable that the
Government has a great interest in ICB's operations.  In order to ensure good
representation ICB's Board includes some of Iran's most senior public servants,
who see to it that sound banking principles are generally applied to ICB's op-
erations. The fact that ICB in its operations follows the Government's poli-
cies is not in conflict with its applying sound banking principles. However,
as a Government-owned bank, it may take on projects which a purely private
bank might not be willing to consider. This particularly applies to projects
which face financial difficulties, which are converted from the Government sec-
tor to the private sector, or which are more costly to administer, like the
smaller projects. In the rare occasions where ICB was requested to finance
non-bankable projects, specific "managed" funds were made available to do
the operation. In general, however, ICB's Board has applied rather strict
banking principles and has in fact been too security oriented.
3.11      Board approval is required for loahs of Rials 10 million (about
$150,000) and above, for all purchases and sales of shares and for issuing
letters of guarantee. The Managing Director may approve loans for less than
Rials 10 million and renew working capital loans if they are simultaneously
reduced by 10%.  He may also discount promissory notes 'of any amount.  The
Assistant Managing Director in charge of supervision may authorize reschedul-
ing of loans within the original repayment period.



- 8 -
3.12      Management.  Management consists of the Managing Director, his
Deputy and two Assistant Managing Directors, Mr. Parviz Shargh, an economist
who joined ICB in 1961 and Mr. Hadi Ghaziaskar, a public administrator with
managerial experience. The Deputy Managing Director and Mr. Shargh were
appointed to their present positions in the summer of 1971, Mr. Ghaziaskar
was appointed in January 1974.
3.13      There are identified needs to strengthen certain organizational
asjects (see para 3.18) appraisal standards (para 3.23) and the conservative
attitude towards terms and conditions of loans (para 4.08) but management has
been able to give an acceptable measure of leadership in the past years, which
have seen a considerable growth in the company's operations. It should con-
tinue to do so in handling the considerable expected growth. ICB has been
administered properly and the investment decisions have been, on the whole,
appropriate. The relationship with the Bank, and the discipline that it im-
poses, should provide ICB's staff -- of generally good quality and with readi-
ness and ability to learn -- with some of the tools it needs to make improve-
ments feasible.
3.14      Staff.  As of March, 1974, there were 215 employees in ICB includ-
ing 88 professionals. In the last 1-1/2 years ICB recruited 31 new profes-
sional staff; 12 left. ICB often seconds its more qualified staff to companies
that require financial, technical or overall managerial skills. Almost half
of the professional staff members has been with ICB for more than five years.
The rather large clerical staff (84) is requ::red to maintain ICB's accounts
and administer ICB's services to the PBO.
3.15      Professional staff is generally competent.  They should be able to
respond well to requirements for project appraisal and supervision which ICB's
association with the Bank would entail. Staff members are sometimes assigned
to work for a year or longer in companies where ICB has an investment; in March
1974, seven staff members were assigned to such projects. These assignments
have proved to be beneficial both to the client company and to ICB, as staff
gained much practical experience. Whenever possible ICB sends staff abroad
for training and to the Industrial Management Institute in Tehran. Further-
more, ICB encourages managers of its client companies to take additional train-
ing. In some cases, ICB pays tuition if the client company continues paying
the salary.
Organization
3.16      ICB's organization is shown in the chart in Annex 4.  ICB has five
Departments composed of eleven Sections. One Assistant Managing Director is
in charge of the five Sections which promote and appraise projects, the other
is in charge of the six Sections which disburse funds and supervise projects.
Six additional Sections dealing with administrative and accounting aspects
report directly to the Deputy Managing Director.
3.17      ICB's awareness of its development function bounces, particularly
in its Promotion Department and Auditing Section, the latter section super-
vises ICB's equity investments, and extends advice on management and account-
ing to client enterprises. The intention behind the establishment of this



- 9 -
Section is commendable; however, it must be more adequately staffed before
it is to have a significant impact. The Promotion Department, set up about
five years ago, was initially more study-oriented; it investigated the manu-
facture of some 200 products and has completed some 35 feasibility studies
which were published and for sale without leading to many operations. More
recently, the Department has made more operation-oriented sector studies,
particularly for the construction industry and the textile sector, which
have lead to a substantial number of loans.
3.18      ICB's organization is overly compartmentalized; one out of three
professionals is a Section Head or higher. Some sections with closely related
functions could be combined. As one section's knowledge of the other is
limited, the flow of information needs to be increased and staff rotation
needs to be improved. At present information is not available in easily trans-
ferable form or, when available, is difficult to trace. Even the management
information system is not today adequately organized to keep it abreast of all
developments. ICB's management is considering potential areas for improvement
in the information system and the organization. The recent set up of the
Industrial Loans Department to coordinate the work of each of the sections
involved in project appraisal should result in marked improvements in that
area. In addition, two sections which carried out similar functions have
been merged in the past months, and a new management information system is
being studied. Future Bank's supervision of ICB will check that organizational
improvements are forthcoming.
3.19      ICB has no regional offices.  At present, missions are sent to the
provinces to make entrepreneurs aware of ICB's existence and how it can help
them. Regional offices would offer many advantages to smaller entrepreneurs.
Such offices could start by extending technical assistance in transforming
inquiries into meaningful applications and could serve as a liaison between
local entrepreneurs and ICB's head office. ICB expects to set up regional
offices at an early date, probably in the context of a regional banks scheme
which ICB has presently under consideration.
Procedures
3.20      Appraisal.  After a preliminary screening of applications by the
Assistant Managing Director and a credit check through banks, appraisals are
executed successively by three units (economic, technical and financial), each
working separately and producing separate reports which are coordinated by
the Director of the Industrial Loans Department and passed to the Assistant
Managing Director for approval. Appraisal reports are submitted to a loan
Committee consisting of the Managing Director or his Deputy, the Secretary
to the Board, the two Assistant Managing Directors and the chief lawyer.
If the application involves an equity investment or a loan above Rials 10
million, the project, if endorsed, is submitted to the Board of Directors
for approval. The time spent preparing a report averages about three months,
which is not excessive.



- 10 -
3.21      Appraisals for working capital loans and overdrafts made subsequent
to previous long-term financing, are essentially mere credit analyses under-
taken by the Project Supervision Section, Overdrafts are normally for limited
amounts, and appraisal has sometimes been undertaken after the overdraft has
been granted. As the need for such financing may, in some cases, reflect
deficient initial financial appraisal (as well as management and/or market
difficulties), more thorough analysis should be applied before this kind of
financial assistance is granted. Appraisals for guarantees (from a Polish
Credit, see para 5.03, and domestic guarantees) follow the appraisal procedures
of normal loan applications.
3.22      Management is aware that feedback from follow-up to appraisal staff
is deficient although it is considering ways of making supervision reports
systematically accessible to appraisal staff.
3.23      ICB's project appraisals cover the engineering and market aspects
reasonably well, but they are deficient in their review of financial and eco-
nomic aspects. For example, financial projections are limited mainly to
preparing a cash flow statement, while financial analysis of the validity of
the project, among others in the form of ratios, is scanty. Instead, the fi-
nancial analysis is limited to evaluating security (including guarantees) and
the debt service capacity of the project.  Loan amounts and loan terms are
based thereon. During negotiations ICB undertook to deepen its financial.
analysis and include in all its appraisals financial rate of return calcula-
tions and projections of cash flow, income statements and balance sheets.
Because ICB's project analyses did not include in the past an estimate of
required permanent working capital and its financing, borrowers have often
faced liquidity problems and had to come back to ICB after implementation
to receive supplementary finance. Significant improvements are expected in
that area (para. 4.08). Economic evaluation of projects is virtually non-
existent, ICB leaving this function to the Ministry of Economy, which issues
establishment licenses. The Bank has initiated discussions on various aspects
of economic appraisal with ICB and has given to ICB guidelines for calculating
economic rates of return. During negotiations, ICB agreed to include in its
appraisal reports an explicit economic analysis including calculation of the
economic rate of return, at least on projects for which financing in excess
of Rials 50 million (about $750,000) is requested from ICB.
3.24      Supervision.  The Project Supervision Section is injected when the
commitment is made. It keeps a close watch over projects under construction
through regular site visits and inspection of the books. Projects under
construction are normally visited three to four times a year, but more often
if necessary. After each visit, a report is prepared high-lighting problems
and suggesting solutions. When construction is completed, an overall evalua-
tion of the project is prepared. In most cases, the repayment schedule of the
project is then reviewed and often amended to take into account the final cost
of the project and its potential for repayment. Supervision reports are re-
viewed by the Assistant Managing Director, who, in cases of projects facing
serious difficulties, submits them to a Project Supervision Committee consist-
ing of six persons from various sections. ICB is doing this work well.



- 11 -
3.25      Follow-up of projects in operation, on the other hand, is limited
to projects in arrears over three months and enterprises having requested
rescheduling. Consequently, ICB's knowledge of the status of its portfolios
is incomplete. ICB's management is aware that the lack of systematic follow-
up of projects in operation is a weakness and it is developing plans to deal
with it. The large number of projects in operation (over 200) and staff
constraints, however, will limit immediate improvements.
3.26      Promotion.  Ideas for new projects may come from various sources,
such as clients, studies of imported products, technical journals and other
publications. After the Industrial Promotion Department has identified good
prospects for a project, ICB requests a preliminary establishment license from
the Ministry of Economy. ICB then contacts existing companies, importers,
traders or other potential investors, and tries to attract them to the project.
WZhen a sponsor has been identified, the project description is changed to in-
corporate the specific location, the machinery, the technology selected and
the financial plan. A report is prepared and submitted to the Loan Committee,
which either approves the project (for loans under Rials 10 million) or submits
it to the Board. Although ICB's project analysis for promoted projects suffers
the same deficiencies as for its others' its sector studies and technical
appraisal, which are better than other appraisal features, have in the majority
assured good projects. Promotion is one of ICB's better features.
3.27      Procurement.  ICB checks the price quotations for machinery against
its experience with other projects using similar machinery. If such a compa-
rison is impossible, ICB tries to obtain quotations from other suppliers,
either in Iran or abroad. For promoted projects, ICB normally obtains quota-
tions from five suppliers. ICB's engineers give considerable help to investors
in the choice of equipment; about 40% of ICB's clients rely for their selec-
tion of equipment on the advice of ICB's engineers whereas for another 20% the
choice of equipment is adjusted following ICB's engineers' advice. ICB has
found that applicants usually obtain equipment competitive in price and quality.
Hlowever, ICB's procurement system could be further strengthened if it required
borrowers to obtain more price quotations for each project.
3.28      Disbursement.  The Supervision Section, which visits the recipient
enterprises at regular intervals, makes recommendations for disbursements,
checks physical progress and inspects accounts to verify that the client has
complied with his obligations, including his share of the expenditures. Dis-
bursement procedures are satisfactory.
3.29      To summarize, ICB is an institution with areas in which improvements
are needed. They are found both in its organization and in the quality of ICB's
work. These weaknesses are, however, of a nature which, if remedies are re-
solutely pursued, should yield quick improvements. One feature underlying this
judgment is the competence and readiness to learn from among numerous profes-
sional staff members. An association with the Bank could play a role in this
process but considerable Bank staff time will likely be required on supervision
work.



- 12 -
IV. OPERATIONS
Industrial Financing
4.01      Until FY 65, ICB's financing was largely for projects which it took
over from the PBO. At the end of that year ICB had about $13.5 million (Rials
1,010 million) outstanding in long-term '.ndustrial loans, $3.9 million was
outstanding in a few large working capital loans and $7.3 million in guarantees.
Business grew erratically through FY 71, but in FY 72 it decreased because of
a longer lag between approval and commitment for a few large projects. The
consequence was that in FY 73 term loan commitments were more than six times
higher; Rials 3.7 billion ($54.6 million). Annex 5 gives the overall figures
of ICB's operations.
4.02      ICB's long-term loan commitments up to March 1973 are shown in
Annex 6. Concentration of financing in traditional industries producing
foodstuffs, textiles and construction maverials (50% of total commitments
through FY 73) and in enterprises outside. Tehran area (55%) is evident.
Although IC13 has made 12 large long-term commitments totalling Rials 3 bil-
lion (average size about Rials 250 million), it has made 357 commitments aver-
aging Rials 13.2 million ($195,000) mainly to medium and small-sized enter-
prises. The average maturity of ICB loans is about 6.3 years (maturity:
three to 10 years). However, the smaller loans have generally a maturity
below six years (see also para. 4.08).
4.03      Equity Investments.  ICB's equity operations up to end FY73 are shown
in Annex 7. They involve 23 companies. Foodstuffs (mainly sugar companies)
and construction materials (mainly cement factories) have received most of
ICB's financial attention: 72% of all ICB's share purchases and 74% of its
equity portfolio as of end FY73. Eight of ICB's 20 equity investments are in
companies which were formerly in the public sector: ICB's financial assistance
was required to help converting them into majority private companies. ICB takes
in these cases a minority holding except in one recent case where the private
partner still has to be found. Seven other companies required ICB's partici-
pation because they were in financial, managerial or technical difficulties.
ICB's holdings in two companies were sold when the situation had improved,
while two other companies show good prospects now. Some of ICB's recent share
participations are in promotional companies (like Synthetic Fibre, Double Knit,
and two cement factories) which have an initial small share capital but will
ultimately become large projects. In general ICB's equity investments are in
larger companies. ICB should consider making more equity investments in
smaller companies to be in harmony with the role ICB plays in such enterprises
through its long-term loans.
4.04      Working Capital Loans (Annex 7), generally for one year and renewa-
ble, are mainly given to companies in which ICB has a long-term loan or an
equity investment. In the last year, however, more loans were made to clients
which had no former relationship with ICB. The amounts committed for working
capital in the last three years accounted for 25.9% of total commitments



- 13 -
(excluding guarantees), compared with 34.4% since 1961. Working capital
finance was mainly provided to five sugar mills and two textile mills in which
ICB has a substantial interest. The textile mills were experiencing liquidity
problems, while the sugar mills required campaign financing. The average size
of the working capital loans is large (over Rials 32 million); 30 loans over
Rials 50 million had an average size of Rials 105 million and account for 60%
of all working capital loans. In general small enterprises have not benefitted
from this type of ICB financing.
4.05      Altogether, some 15 companies received over 60% of ICB's total
finance.  They include the mentioned five sugar and two large textile mills,
four cement mills, a shipping company and a larger paper mill. Reasons for
ICB's financial assistance to these companies are: (i) they sponsored important
projects in essential sectors to industry, (ii) some companies were converted
from public sector to the private sector after the long-term viability had
been established and (iii) some required additional finance for balancing,
modernization and expansion. ICB's heavy exposure in these large companies
has mainly been in the form of equity investments, working capital loans and
guarantees, while long-term loans generally went to the smaller--sized enter-
prises. Of some 350 companies financed by ICB since inception, about 210
companies are estimated to have assets below $300,000 while another 120 have
assets between $300,000 and $1 million. Total long-term commitments to enter-
prises with fixed assets below $1 million has exceeded Rials 4.5 billion
($67 million); this in itself is a respectable amount for that client sector.
To sum up, ICB has financed a few very large projects but its main business
has been with the medium- and small-size enterprises. The following table
compares the different nature of ICB's operations vis-a-vis IMDBI's:
ICB         IMDBI
Average size of all long-term loans                     $308,000    $933,000
Average size of loans under Rials 50 million            $149,000    $292,000
Loans committed under Rials 50 million as % of
total loan
Committed (amounts)                             42%         20%
(number)                             91%          60%
4.06      The focus of ICB in the medium/small size sector will continue.
ICB intends to continue giving high priority to the financing of these enter-
prises, and it has spelled this out in its Policy Statement.
Terms and Conditions of Financial Assistance
4.07      In the past, ICB followed a policy of low interest rates (ranging
from 7-8% per annum). However, rates were adjusted recently to take account
of the prevailing interest rates in the country, the economic cost of capital
and the increasing cost of ICB's own resources. ICB charges now a 9% interest
rate with minor exceptions (10% for all projects located in Tehran and 8 1/2%
for projects with fixed assets below $500,000) (see Annex 8.) ICB's interest
rates are appropriate at present.



- 14 -
4.08      Other conditions of ICB's loans such as grace periods, amortization
and security are determined by ICB's rather unsophisticated financial appraisal.
ICB's stringent security requirements, i.e. a first mortgage on fixed assets
covering 200% of loan amounts make it difficult for borrowers to arrange sup-
plementary finance from other sources; they result in under-capitalization
of projects. The first installment of ICB's loans fall due only six months
after the start of operations, and the average duration of these loans, in-
cluding grace, is only about 5-1/2 years with a maximum of ten years. Tight
amortization schedules generally lead to excessive debt service in the early
years of operations. But amortization schedules are reviewed and revised from
time to time to reflect the repayment capacity of the borrowers. While this
procedure does result in ICB's early supervision of projects, it has also
led to rather substantial reschedulings, after temporary defaults.  Reschedul-
ing, easily available, also produces a casual approach of borrowers to repay-
ment. In summary, however, actual reschedulings have been more the result of
deficient appraisal rather than of a bad performance of ICB project. Finally,
ICB does not generally include in its financial plan the permanent working
capital requirements of, particularly, the smaller projects. Because of this
and the scarcity of short-term credit, quite a few have had liquidity problems.
During negotiations, ICB satisfied the Bank that it intends to be more amenable
to financing a larger proportion of the total long-term capital requirements
of good projects, including permanent working capital, and to soften its
security requirements for projects of financial and economic merit which can-
not afford to securities usually required by ICB.
Promotion
4.09      ICB's promotions have become important for its long-term operations.
In FY71, the second year of existence of the Promotion Department, ICB helped
to promote nine projects. In FY72 there were no promotions which lead to
operations, but more recently a considerable number came to fruition. Most
of the projects in the last two years originate from an intensive ICB study
of the construction sector; the need for a number of cement, gypsum and brick
factories were identified. The following table shows the sectoral distribution
of ICB's promotions since FY71, involving 27 companies:
No. of         Amount                Fixed cost
Loans           of Loans             of project
-        in million Rials
Construction material       17             1,854.5                4,097.5
Food                         7               319.0                  662.0
Wood                         3               332.0                  610.5
Textile                      1               200.0                  416.0
Other                        7               144.9                  550.7
35             2,850.4                6,336.2



- 15 -
The same pattern applies to ICB's promotion as to its regular operations
i.e. a few large projects account for the larger part of the amounts, while
the smaller projects dominate in number. ICB's promotional activities should
be even more concentrated on the smaller size projects.
Special Operations
4.10      After ICB's Statutes were amended to include financing of health,
education, recreation and tourism projects, ICB has financed seven hotel
involving Rials 366 million. Another Rials 67 million went to one hospital
and three schools. All these projects are privately sponsored and financially
viable. ICB does not expect this kind of operations to become important.
Managed Funds
4.11      ICB's managed funds are of three types, First, there are 50 "govern-
ment agency loans", which had been made by the Government to public sector
projects, and on which ICB simply acts as a disbursing and collection agency
for the Government.  Second, "managed loans" which ICB administers for the
Ministries of Health (76 loans) and Education (89) and the Iranian Naticnal
Tourist Organization (37); it also provides some technical assistance in the
appraisal and supervision of these projects mostly as to civil engineering.
Third, "managed industrial loans and equity investments" which the PBO had
made to private industrial enterprises, organizations and individuals. Total
funds outstanding as of March 20, 1974 under the three schemes are Rials 18
billion. ICB carries no risk in all three types. ICB receives commissions
varying between 1/2% and 2% of the outstandilig amounts which more than cover
ICB's costs. Only four of ICB's staff are involved in the administration of
the managed funds.
ICB's Economic Impact
4.12      There is little quantitative material to measure ICB's impact.
A lot flows from an appreciation of ICB's function in Iran. To get some
reading of the impact of ICB one needs to center on the focus of ICB's opera-
tions. Indeed, by concentrating its lending in the less developed regions of
Iran; catering mostly to smaller sized industries; focusing on the more tradi-
tional, labor-intensive and resource-based industries (food processing and
construction material); financing more than 300 smaller entrepreneurs and
finally; doing project promotion more recently, suggest that ICB has contri-
buted to the expansion of industrial employment, particularly in the provinces;
to the broadening of the base of industrial ownership in Iran; and to gear
industrial investment into viable projects which otherwise might not have gone
ahead. During the Fourth Plan Period it is estimated that ICB financed proj-
ects resulted in total investments of about Rials 18 billion or 10.2% of total
gross fixed capital formation in industries and mines. It is estimated that
these projects provided employment to about 24,000 people at an average invest-
ment of about $10,000 per job. However, a few large projects in ICB's port-
folio contribute to increase the average investment per job and excluding
them, the average investment per job is below Rials 5 million ($7,380), a
reasonable amount compared with other development banks in the area.



- 16 -
V. RESOURCES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE
5.01      Annex 9 presents ICB's resource position as of March 20, 1974.  The
several sources of funds and the overall situation are described below.
5.02      For most of its existence ICB has relied on the PBO for long-term
resources, both as to share capital and long-term loans. ICB's share capital
at the end of FY74 was Rials 4,320 million. ICB has also accumulated earnings
totalling Rials 900.0 million including Rials 380 million of provisions. Long-
term borrowings outstanding to the PBO as of March 20, 1974 were Rials 976
million repayable over five years starting in 1991. In FY73, ICB obtained
its first foreign currency loans. First, a Russian loan for Rials 3.265
million (Rubles 40 million) at 4% interest and 10 years' term, for Russian
equipment. (ICB management is very pessimistic about its usability given
the low demand for Russian equipment in Iran). Second, a $15 million Euro-
dollar loan from the Chemical Bank of London at seven-eights of one percent
above the six months London Interbank rate 1/ and for a seven years' term.
Third, a $15 million ten-year Eurodollar loan from Deutsche Bank at 3/4%
above the London Interbank rate 2/ for ten years. Both Eurodollar loans
were fully drawn down at end of FY74. In addition, a $11 million line of
credit with the Eximbank 3/ and another for FF 20 million with COFACE
(Compagnie Financiere et d'Assurances pour le Credit Exterieur) were signed
at the end of 1973 and beginning of 1974, respectively. An additional line
with ECGD (Export and Credit Guarantee Department) for the financing of
British procurement was recently negotiated but not yet signed. 4/ Prospects
about the usability of the tied credits are uncertain because of ICB's unex-
perience in managing such credits.
5.03      ICB has been designated the agency for extending guarantees for a
$15 million bilateral credit given in 1964 by the Government of Poland to the
Government of Iran to finance machinery imports from that country. Loans
under this credit are repayable in 10 years from the issue date of the corres-
ponding letter of guarantee, including a grace period of two years. ICB
earns a commission of 1% to 1.5% on the outstanding balances, varying in
accordance with the type of industry and the specific risk. As of March 20,
1974, letters covering the equivalent of $15.0 million had been issued.
5.04      ICB's short-term funds come mainly from the PBO accounts, some
interest free, from deposits made by clients applying for letters of guarantee
1/   10% when the loan was signed; about 11% at end of April 1974.
2/   6-3/8Y% at the time the loan was signed.
3/   At 6% and five years repayment period, to be increased to $20 million
shortly.
4/   With interest rates slightly above 6% and terms up to 10 years.



- 17 -
(Rials 243 million) and savings accounts of PB0 personnel. Although ICB is
allowed to accept deposits they are not a practical source of funds for ICB
because it would need to pay 9-10% to attract them. The current account of
the PB0 has, in fact, a long-term nature as it has been increasing constantly
in the past and the Government gave ICB assurances that it will not be reduced
to the detriment of ICB. In FY74, the Government, as a result of its policy
of centralizing public funds with the Central Bank, shifted part of these
funds to ICB's current account withl the Central Bank, which, for this reason
increased to Rs. 1.6 billion at end FY1974.
5.05       On March 20, 1974 ICB had total long-term resources outstanding of
Rials 10.1 billion, not enough to cover long-term commitments. ICB was over-
committed by Rials 1.914 million.  However, these overcommitments were more
than covered by Rials 2,181 of uncommitee short-term resources. Part of ICB's
"short-term" resources include accounts which are, de facto, medium or long-
term. ICB has assured the Bank that in the future, it will match the matur-
ities of its assets and its liabilities.
Quality of Portfolio
5.06       Details on the status of ICB's portfolio as of March 21, 1973;
are given in Annex 10. The long-term loan portfolio of Rials 4,029.3 million,
involving 208 borrowers, was for 38.9% in the grace period, 56.1% was repay-
ing regularly 1/ and 5% was affected by arrears over three months. The large
portion of loan in grace reflects the business growth in the last two years.
The arrears portion covered 23 corapanies and amounted to Rials 202.8 million.
Of this amount nearly half had been in default for more than two years; 64.5%,
is owed by only three enterprises (a textile mill and two brick companies).
5.07       At the same date, the working capital portfolio was Rials 1,281.5
million outstanding in 60 companies; 61.2% was in the grace period, 23.2%
was being repaid regularly (including 7.4% which had been renewed) and 15.6%
was affected by arrears. The latter involve 13 companies and amotunt to Rials
184.2 million. 80% thereof was in three enterprises; the same textile mill
which is also in arrears on its long-term loans, a dairy firm and a date packer.
5.08       Taking the long-term loan and working capital loan portfolios to-
gether, the principal outstanding in companies in arrears for over three
months -- Rials 402.9 million -- represented 7.6% of the outstanding loan
portfolio.  Actual arrears amounted to 2.7% of the outstanding portfolio.
These percentages compare favorably with other DFC's associated with the Bank.
Among the important delinquents, the textile mill has meanwhile become profit-
able but still does not repay. Legal proceedinigs are underway against the
dairy company but collateral is sufficient for recovery. One brick company
has, meanwhile, repaid its arrears and the other a part. The date company has
been taken over temporarily by ICB with a view to being sold.  Overall, though,
1/   Including loans in arrears for less than three months and rescheduled
loans not in grace or in default at that date.



- 18 -
the amDunt outstanding on loans affected by arrears has decreased. This pic-
ture is possibly obscured by the number of reschedulings, e.g., six loans
since March 1973.
5.09      Summarizing, ICB's loan portfolio is largely unseasoned, with 44%
of its long and short-term portfolio still in the grace period, and a subs-
tantial (18.5%) part of the remainder rescheduled. ICB has not experienced
any write-offs and none are expected for the future. On March 20, 1973 ICB
had established provisions of Rials 320 millior. against the total loan port-
folio affected by arrears of 402.8 million, actual arrears of Rials 293.1 mil-
lion and a total outstanding loan and equity portfolio of Rials 7.38 billion.
Furthermore, ICB provides against uncollectible interest directly in the
balance sheet by reducing the amount of "accounts receivable" with all the
interest in arrears and an estimate of uncollectible accrued interest on
other loans. ICB's provision policy can be considered prudent and is based
on a conservative loan-by-loan review. ICB's portfolio should overall be
good and weight needs to be given to ICB's having considerable amounts of
provisions for bad debts. A full auditor's opinion, on standards acceptable
to the Bank, is expected to confirm this judgement (para. 5.13).
5.10      ICB's Equity Portfolio (Annex 11) is of mixed quality.  The market
value (based on market quotation, book value or cost) is estimated to be
Rials 1,429.3 million (13.8% higher than the cost to ICB). The return on
equity investments in the form of dividends has been negligible up to end FY73
(less than 1%'0 per year); including profit on sales of shares and a bonus issue,
the return on the portfolio became 3.5% in FY73. Thus ICB's equity portfolio
is still unseasoned and has been only marginally profitable. This is so be-
cause many of ICB's investments were made in an effort to help reconstruct
comnpanies in serious financial difficulties. However, since March, 1973 the
picture has imnproved considerably. Rollover of ICB's equity portfolio has
not been active either, with the profitability of the companies being un-
attractive:  in the last five years ICB sold shares in six companies total-
ling Rials 186.5 million.  An important event was the underwriting of the
public issue of Shahriar Bank shares involving Rials 910 million.  Since
March 1973 ICB also increased its holding in the Fars and Khuzestan Cement
Company to Rials 692.2, which is significantly more than 10% of ICB's rela-
tively large net wortlh (Rials 4,673 million).  Such large investments should
not be encouraged.  They also diminish ICB's ability to invest in small enter-
prises.
Financial Structure
5.11      Audited balance sheets for the end of FY70/73 and unaudited at end
of FY74 are attached in Annex 12. During the five-year period, total assets
more than doubled. ICB's portfolio grew faster than total assets and by
March 20 1974 represented 80% of total assets, as against 70% by FY70 end.
This growth has been financed mostly by increases in net worth. On March 20,
1974 the ratio of ICB's total debt (including guarantees) to equity was 2.1:1
and that of long-term to equity only 0.8:1, reflecting the large equity base.
This low level of indebtedness allows for substantial additional borrowing.



- 19 -
ICB's liquidity position was tight but not imperiled at end FY74 (current
ratio 1:0).
Profitability
5.12      Audited Income Statements for FY70/73 and unaudited for FY74 are
shown in Annex 13. The most important aspect is that ICB is in a high tax
bracket, i.e., 60% of income. This is so because ICB shares are not quoted
on the Stock Exchange and because ICB has less than 100 shareholders. This
factor reduced income before-tax and provisions from 14% on average net worth
in FY74 to 5.6% after tax and to 4.4% after tax and provisions. Opportunities
to increase ICB's after-tax profits are, therefore, limited. Financial ex-
penses have been minimal in the past as the result of the very low cost (aver-
aging 3% on outstanding loans) but increased in FY74.  Administrative expenses
have been kept within reasonable limits, 1.4% of ICB's average total assets.
Indeed, income from administering Managed Funds totalled Rials 260 million in
FY74, about 20% of total income, and covered 75% of ICB's total administrative
expenses.
Audit
5.13      The auditors who worked on ICB's accounts until recently, were not
satisfactory to the Bank. Despite the deficiencies in the auditors' reports,
the ILnk's analysis of ICB's operations and financial statements indicates
,hat internally ICB's accounts are satisfactorily maintained. In view of
this fact, and of ICB's satisfactory level of provisions, no fresh audit is
recommended before a loan to ICB is made. In March 1973 the Government decided
that all public sector companies, including ICB, should be audited by auditors
acceptable to the Government Auditing Company which has a supervisory function.
Accordingly, in early 1974, ICB selected Amin and Co. as its new auditors.
Ii(* firm, associated with Price-Waterhouse, is a highly reputable one and is
3cceptable to the Bank. ICB will employ the firm. During negotiations, ICB
agreed to have its accounts and financial statements for each year audited
in accordance with sound auditing principles, consistently applied.
VI. PROSPECTS
The Environment
6.01      The Five-Year Plan (1973/78).  Motivated by well supported expecta-
tions for rising oil revenues and improvements in Iran's absorptive capacity,
the Government has approved the Fifth Plan which is expected to raise per
capita GDP, currently $580, by 75% to about $1,020 by 1978. GDP is projected
to grow at 11.4% per annum in real terms compared with roughly 11% during the
Fourth Plan. The share of investment in GDP is expected to rise from 22% to
over 27% at the end of the Fifth Plan. Public investment is to be maintained
at high levels, reaching an estimated $22.7 billion (in constant prices) during
tlhe Plan period, while private investment is planned to be $13.4 billion.



- 20 -
Indiistry, including mining, would grow at 15% annually, the share of industry
to non-oil GDP rising from 20%o to 23% during the Plan period.  Exports of
non-oil manufactures are expected to increase by 30% per annum. The propor-
tion of the labor force employed in industry would grow from 21% to 28% by
1978.
6.02      While the Government is expected to make large investments in the
basic industries, the role of the small and medium sized enterprises is also
being recognized. Rials 10 billion are allocated from the Five-Year Plan
budget to foster development of that sector at a faster pace than in the past
(see para. 2.11). The ICB is regarded as a prime financier of that sector
and instrumental in achieving a target annual growth rate of 15% in industrial
value added, particularly in the less developed regions of Iran.
6.03      An important and welcome feature of the Fifth Plan is the emphasis
on social sectors and rural development; they are to call for 37% of total
Government expenditures. A rise in rural incomes should considerably broaden
the market for industrial products.  The Fifth Plan also envisages five timtes
more expenditure for industrial development in the provinces th.an in the
Fourth Plan. The Government's strategy is to create a number of growth poles
along the East-West axis Mashad/Tehran/Ghazvin/Tabriz and along the North-
South axis Tabriz/Arak/Esphahan/Abadan/Shiraz/Kerman/Bandar Abbas.  The
parallel development of natural resources (agriculture, oil and other minerals)
is also foreseen. All these features augur well for a sustained development
of ICB's principal client sector.
6.04      Still, there are dampening factors.  Among them is the shortage of
skilled labor and managerial staff. However, the Government is optimistic
that through training programs, repatriation of Iranians working abroad and
hiring of foreigners, this problem can be alleviated. Also, the need to
contain mounting inflationary pressures may necessitate monetary and fiscal
policies containing public and private spending.
ICB's Business Preto
6.05      Anniex 14 presents operational and financial projections for the next
five-year period beginning with the current fiscal year. They reflect the
favorable business conditions and prospects and a pipeline of some 61 projects -
of which 43 are of a medium/small size - presently under consideration with
ICB. These projects include some 13 projects in the construction industry;
15 producing textile end-products; six processing agricultural products, four
schools and one hotel. Altogether, ICB's forecasts are substantial: long-
term loan approvals are expected to grow from Rials 8.3 billion in FY75 to
Rials 17 billion in FY79. This makes for a 20% annual growth rate which is
below that expected for private industrial investment in Iran. Commitments
follow the growth of approvals, increasing from Rials 7.7 billion in FY75 to
Rials 15.9 billion in FY79. (FY74 commitments were Rials 3.4 billion). Com-
mitments of loans to finance imported machinery and equipments are forecast
to account for 60% of ICB loan commitments growing from Rials 4.6 billion in
FY75 to Rials 9.5 billion in FY79. As indicated in para. 3.06, ICB finances



- 21 -
only 50% of the total project cost. The aforementioned 60% therefore in most
instances does not cover the total import component of the capital investment
which on the average is about 60% of the total project cost.  This component
is so high because the enterprises financed by ICB often do not include real
estate as part of their investment because many projects consist merely of
equipment purchases.
6.06      Equity investments, which jumped from Rials 82 million in FY72 to
Rials 1.2 billion in FY74, are expected to grow more evenly from Rials 1.3
billion in FY75 to Rials 2.0 billion in FY79 (a 10% annual growth rate).
The forecast does not include new working capital loans because it has been
assumed that ICB will phase out of the granting of such loans for recurring
needs leaving the field mainly to the commercial banks. Other local currency
operations include ICB's assistance to schools, hotels and medical facilities.
A yearly commitment of Rials 50 million has been forecast for this purpose.
6.07      ICB's forecasts for long-term lending are modest.  They mean that
ICB merely maintains its share (5%) in total industrial finance. Demand
exists but, in the short run, the ability of ICB's management and staff to
process business is a brake on possibly higher expectations.
Resource Requirements
6.08      On these bases, ICB will need Rials 65.9 billion (about $970 mil-
lion equivalent to cover its expected commitments for the five year period
FY75-79, of which Rials 34.4 billion (about $500 million equivalent) in
foreign exchange resources. The Government of Iran has advised the Bank that
in light of the new economic situation following the recent rises in oil prices,
it will not allow ICB to borrow in the international capital markets at in-
terest rates above the current IBRD rates. Consequently, the Government has
advised the Bank that it will finance through PBO loans 1/ - not only all of
ICB's needs in local currency but also those in foreign currency not covered
by IBRD loans or by lines of credit with similar terms.  Accordingly, ICB's
resource availabilities and the resulting resource gap are expected to evolve
as follows:
1/   Terms of these loans have not yet been determined.  It is assumed that
they will be on terms similar to IBRD loans.



- 22 -
FY75-76         FY77-79          Total
(in Rials million)
Total Commitments                    19,915          46,016            65,931
of which import component          (10,170)        (24,230)          (34,400)
Resources
available end FY74                     270            -                  270
cash generation /1                   2,300           6,400             8,700
PBO loans                           15,OqO          36,000            51,000
Existing or about to be signed,
tied lines of credit /2               600             900             1,500
IBRD loans                           1,745           2,716             4,461
/1   Includes excess of loan collections over repayments.
/2   Exinmbank, COFACE, ECGD.
6.09       Over the two year period FY75-76, ICB's financing needs are expect-
ed to be Rials 19.9 million, out of which Rials 10.2 to finance imports. As
against these needs, ICB had Rials 270 million available for commitment at
end FY74, and cash generated during the period will amount to about Rials
2.3 billion. PBO loans are expected to total, about Rials 15 billion for the
two year period. 1/ ICB expects that Rials 600 million of its tied lines of
credit will be available for commitment during the period. The Government and
ICB are looking to the Bank to cover the resulting resource gap of about Rials
1.7 billion ($25 million equivalent). Such a loan would cover about 8% of ICB's
overall resource needs, and about 17% of its import finance requirements up to
March 1976.
6.10      After FY76, ICB envisages another loan from the Bank as well as
further utilization of its tied lines of credit. If the policy described in
para 6.08 above is maintained, PBO allocations for the following three years
should amount to about Rials 35 billion; this amount should not be difficult
to provide to ICB by the Government in light of the situation and prospects
of the Iranian economy. The business projections have been prepared under
this assumption.
Foreign Exchange Risk
6.11      During negotiations the Government advised the Bank that it will
take the foreign exchange risk associated with ICB's borrowings with IBRD,
thus insulating ICB against losses due to changes in the exchange rates.
ICB's outstanding borrowings from the Chemical Bank and Deutsche Bank - which
are not projected by the Government's scheme - will be prepaid-by ICB with PBO
funds allocated to ICB for that purpose. Should ICB, against present expecta-
tions, contract future loans in foreign exchange from abroad, it will either
pass on the foreign exchange risk to the sub-borrowers, or the Government
will. assume the risk.
1/   Although final allocations are not yet determined a tentative amount of
Rials 15 million to the industrial development banks in FY74 has been
retained by the Government. This amount is expected to be increased sub-
stantially in a forthcoming review of the budget.



- 23 -
Financial Projections
6.12      Projected Balance Sheets, Income Statements and Cash Flow Statements
are included in Annex 14. Interest income is expected to increase by an ave-
raze of about 50% per year following a slightly smaller increase in portfolio
anm the higher average interest rates applicable to ICB's future business.
Fin,ancial exphnses increase more rapidly from its low present level, reflecting
mainly increased borrowing at somewhat higher costs. Administrative expenses,
although increasing in absolute amotints, will decrease in proportion to ave-
rage assets from 1.2% in FY74 to abcut 0.9% in FY79. Profits before taxes
and provisions increase accordingly by about 20% per year which is slower
than the growth of assets. Provisions will be satisfactory throughout the
period. On a before-tax basis, ICB would earn about 4.2% on average assets
and about 18.9% on average net worth in FY76 which would be quite satisfact-
ory. However, the high tax bracket applicable to ICB unfavorably affects
its profitabilitv, decreasing the return on average assets to 0.9% and r'eturn
an average net worth to 4.0%.
6.13      The forecast projects that most of the increase in assets in the next
two vears will be financed from borrowings. As a consequence, ICB's long-term
debt/equity ratio will increase from a small 0.9:1 ratio at the end of FY74
to 4:1 at the end of FY79, within the debt/equity limitation of 4:1 recommend-
ed later (para 7.05). To achieve that end, ICB should increase its share
capital by FY77. The needed increase - Rials 5 billion - is spread over three
years and is assumed to come from the Government (ICB's owner) as part of the
Rials 36 billion allocation from the PBO, forecast for those years. ICB's
current position remains satisfactory. Debt service will be ample throughout
the period, with loan collections being between four and six times repayments
on borrowings, and interest receipts exceeding interest payable by between
100% and 25%.
VII.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Conclusions
7.01      Iran remains a fast-growing country in which industrial growth
remains one of the most important elements. The Bank is in general agreement
with the Government's overall economic and industrial policies. It welcomes
the greater attention the Government is now devoting to the social sectors.
7.02      The Government is re-evaluating its attitude towards the small/medium
sized enterprises in order to increase its efficiency and to create a broader
base of industrial development. It is devising several tools to foster its
development. ICB will be the financial institution providing long-term funds
to these enterprises and its goals coincide with the development objectives
of the Government. ICB's organization, staffing and ownership and its rela-
tions with the Government and Iran's business community, make it suitable for



- 24 -
financing of smaller projects. With its focus on small/medium sized enter-
prises and on the more resource-based industries located in the provinces,
ICB's projects have had in the past, and are expected to have in the future,
an increasing impact on the developmtent of the country, particularly in the
creation of industrial employment ir the backward regions of Iran.
7.03      14hile there are several weaknesses in ICB, particularly in its
project appraisal, there is sufficient strength in its management, organiza-
tion and the competence of its staff to make ICB deserving of Bank suppcrt.
In fact, the Bank through its sub-project review and general supervision,
should be in a position to help. Overall, ICB has a good portfolio, and a
strong financial position which allows for considerable future borrowing to
meet its prospects for substantial business.
7.04      For the future, ICB has ambitious although not realistic plans.
These plans will pose a challenge to ICB's management and staff. The resource
needs are considerable but given continued Government support and in light of
the economic prospects of Iran, the needed resources should be available to
ICB without problems. A Bank loan would help ICB strengthen its organization
and improve its appraisal and supervision standards and information systems.
The Government of Iran shares the view that the Bank can make a considerable
contribution in these respects. The amount of the possible loan and the mere
provision of resources is far less important than the opportunity a loan
affords the Bank to bring new well-tested ideas, practices, and disciplines,
to bear upon ICB's approach to industrial development and overall economic
performance and impact.
Recommendation
7.05      ICB is a suitable and creditworthy borrower of Bank loans.  The
recommended Bank loan of $25 million would meet about 8% of ICB's resource
needs to cover expected commitments up to the end of ICB's FY76. The rela-
tively small size of the proposed loan in relation to ICB's total resource
needs takes into account both the fact that this would be the first loan to
ICB and that PBO funds are likely to be available in substantial amounts.
It may well be that the proposed loan will be fully utilized before March
1976. The loan is expected to be disbursed as shown in Annex 15.
7.06      The loan should be made on the normal conditions of Bank loans made
to DFC's including a flexible amortization schedule and the standard commit-
ment charge. A free limit of $200,000 and an aggregate free limit of $6,250,000
is recommended. The maximum amount of Bank funds to be used for a single
investment project should be $3.5 million. ICB should observe a maximum
debt/equity limit of 4:1.



ANNEX 1
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT BANK
Interest Rate Structure in Iran
(December, 1973)
Nominal Interest Rate
(in percentages)
Commercial Banks                                                  zero
Demand Deposits                                                  7
Time Deposits  1/  2/                                            9
Up to one year                                                 7
Over a year
Savings Deposits  1/
Mortgage and Savings Banks
Savings Deposits  1/                                             7
Government Bonds 1/
2-year maturity                                                  9
5-year maturity                                                 10
7-year maturity                                                 10-212
Abbasabad Property Bonds  4/                                  11 (effective)
Commercial bank loans                                              12 - 25
Interest rate on export credits                                  5
Industrial Development Banks
IDBI                Long-term  5/                               9 - 10
Medium-term                            10-212 - 11-V12
ICB                 Long-term 5/                              8-1/2 - 10
Medium-term                            10-1/2   - 11-1/2
DIBI                Long-term  5/                             9 - 10
Medium-term                            10-212   - 11-212
Agricultural Development Fund                                      8 - 9
Bazaar loans                                                     12 - 30 (possibly higher)
Stocks on Teheran Stock Exchange
Range of dividend yield                                          4.7 - 25.0
Average yield                                                   11.6
Reserve Deposits with Central Bank                                  1
Discount rate  6/                                                   8-12
Discount rate for agricultural and
industrial paper  6/                                             8
Preferential discount rate for
export paper  6/                                                3
1/_On par value. Regular government bonds are maintained by the Central
Bank within 1% of par.  Interest income from savings and time deposits,
and government bonds is tax exempted.
2/ Time deposits are usually redeemable prior to maturity at no penalty
as a matter of policy by the commercial banks.
P/ payable quarterly on average daily balance in the account.
LI Government land bonds on the Abbasabad area in Tehran. These
bonds are not pegged.
5/ Including o.5% service charge.
6' Central Bank.
EMENA/IC & DFC
April 1974






ANNEX 2
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT BANK
POLICY STATEMENT
(aaannrnved bv ICB's Board on Mav 1. 1974)
I
1) The primary objective of the Industrial Credit Bank (ICB) is to stimulate
the economic growth and the industrial development of Iran. In order to fulfill
this objective, the Bank provides financing for the creation of new industrial
enterprises as well as for the expansion and modernization of the existing ones.
II
ICB's objectives are carried out through:
Investment Policy:
2) To finance industries in the form of loans, guarantees of industrial credits
for the purchase and importation of capital goods, participations in equity, and
underwriting of issues of shares and public securities.
3) To finance only the projects promoted and controlled by the private sector.
4) All projects financed should be technically feasible, economically and
financially sound and properly managed.
5) Financing is made available only to projects which in general are in line with
the overall development of the country.
6) The concept of industry, as defined for the purposes of the Bank, is broad
and flexible to allow the bank to finance projects possessing developmental mnerit
within the franework of the country's Development Plan but for which no other
aiding source or organization exists in the country. Based on such a broad and
flexible definition, the concept of intdustry would encompass not only manufac-
turing but also projects in the fields of services, transportation, tourism,
education and health. ICB will give high priority to the financing of medium/
small sized enterprises.
7) Emphasis will be placed on the geographic decentralization of industry comply
ing with the economic policy of Government. Special attention will be given to
regions more in need of industrial development. DMB considers special incentives
for provincial projects amongst which is a lower rate of interest charged on
industrial loans granted to such projects. For projects located in the provinces
and corresponding to small-scale industries - this lower interest rate would be,
as a maximum, 1/2 of 1 percent below the normal interest rate charged by ICB
for projects located in the provinces, irrespective of their size.



-2-
8) To promote the capital market by purchasing and selling shares of industrial
enterprises including the purchase of government-held shares in different
industries with the objectives of selling such shares to the private sector.
9) ICB's shareholdings in new as well as in existing larger industrial units
are to be sold to the public as soon as the soundness of management and feasibility
of the project is determined.  Such an action is taken for the purpose of
broadening the base of industrial ownership in Iran.
10) To provide for technical assistance to industrial enterprises and to employ
such assistance if necessary.
11) In order to encourage foreign investment in Iran, to help and promote joint
ventures with foreign industrial enterprises.
12) To acquire loans from foreign or internal sources.
Financial Policy:
13) The amount and duration of loans given to any individual project is deter-
mined according to the requirements and characteristics of that project.
Nevertheless., the general policy is that the aggregate loan, inclusive of those
acquired from ICB and from other sources for each project should not normally
exceed 50 percent of the total fixed asset requirements of that project. ICB
might exceed this limit, exceptionally, where careful study of the project and
a thorough conduct by the sponsors, suggest that a larger exposure would not be
imprudent. Tle duration of loans, depending on the merits and conditions of
each project, w-ill normally be from 3 to 10 years.
1h) In case of participation in equity, the total share of the government
including that of ICB in each case should remain in the minority, thus observing
the general policy of financing private projects only. ICB will not normally
hold more than 25 percent of the shares of a single enterprise.
15) To provide for most effective financing, ICB intends to adjust its rate of
interest in response to changes in the interest rate structure in Iran, the cost
of funds to ICB, the particular needs of ICB's clients, and in order to develop a
sound and effective organization and to build adequate provisions. To comply
with the aforesaid investment policy, the rate of interest charged on loans given
to provincial projects is slightly lower - 1% at the most - than the one charged
orn projects located in Tehran.
16) Ordinarily ICB does not provide for working capital requirements in the form
or short-term loans. Such a task is considered in principle a function of the
commercial banks. However, if the commercial banks do not provide the working
capital requirements of an industrial project financed by ICB, the initial working
capital is given for the time being until such time as the commercial banks are
prepared to fulfill such requirementso ICB does not intend to compete or overlap
with the activities of commercial banks.



- 3 -
17) In granting loans utilizing the proceeds of foreign exchange borrowirg, the
exchange risk will not be undertaken by ICB.
18) Ordinarily, adequate security is obtained from borrowers to cover the loans.
However, the efficiency of management and a reasonable rate of profitability in
each enterprise is taken into consideration as important factors rendering the
repayment of a loan possible. Disbursement of a loan is effected gradually in
line with the initial schedule as reflected in the Bank's feisibility report.
Throughout the disbursement period, regular inspections are made of the project
to ensure its proper progress.
19) The upper limit as regards ICB's lending is laid down by the Banking Law:
Ten percent of the Bank's paid-up capital plus reserves for any individual project.
In the case of more capital-intensive projects ICB may invite other entities
to join in financing.
20) IOB's maximum financial commitment, in whatever form, to a single enterprise
will not normally exceed 15 percent of ICB's paid-in capital and free reserves.
21)  ICB's total equity portfolio will be limited to ICB's paid-in capital
plus reserves.
22) ICB will maintain its accounts in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, will engage reputable auditors to audit its accounts annually and will
take special care to set aside provisions for losses commensurate with the risks
in its portfolio.
Organization Policy:
23) With a view to strengthening its management and staff as well as giving more
adequate services to its clients, ICB constantly endeavors to build up an effective
organization and to develop a highly qualified staff possessing specialization in
economic, technical and financial analysis, accountancy, law and industrial
management. To this end IOB will send its staff for training in other irstitIticn_<
and agencies as appropriate.
24)  The technical staff of ICB is roughly divided into two groups, one en-ged
in the appraisal, evaluation and preparation of projects and the other in charge
of project follow-up and supervision after approval of the loan.
25) Projects submitted to the Bank are thoroughly studied by the appropriate
staff fron the standpoints of economic feasibility, technical correctness and
financial sondness.
26)  Upon providing its loan, ICB supervises project implementation. Supervision
is carried on until the loan has been completely repaid.
27) As a bank agent for the Plan and Budget Organization, ICB has entered into
agreement with the Plan and Budget Organization to effect, on behalf of the
latter, contracts pertaining to loan and equity participation approved by and/
or for the Plan and Budget Organization, in favor of government-owned, profit
earning agencies. This function is regarded as ICB's 'Managed Activity" under-
taken as a service to the Plan and Budget Organization.



-4 -
28)  Furthermore, the bank officials engaged in the fulfillment of ICB's managed
activities are kept separate from those engaged in project preparation and
supervision.
29) Managed activities of the Bank are undertaken with a coninission fee charged
by ICB.
30) ICB's policy is to review its organizational set-up and the duties assigned
to each position, at the management as well as lower levels, periodically.



ANNEX 3
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT BANK
Board of Directors
(as of March, 1973)
1.  Alind3ghi Farmanfarmaian            Managing Director
ICB
2. Ahmad Ziai                           Deputy Managing Director
ICB
3. Abassgholi Bakhtiar                  Under-Secretary
Ministry of Economy
h. Majid Mohiman                        Member of High Council of Insurance
representing Ministry of FInance
5. Representative of the Plan and Budget Organization to be nominated.
1/ All Directors were elected for the first time in March, 1973 following
the re-organization of the Plan Organization. Directors remain in
office for a two-year term and nay be re-elected.
EMENA/IC & DFC
April 1974






INDUSTRIAL CREDIT BANK
Organ-at- and Staff Chart at of March 1974
|SHAREHOLDERS
STAFF
MANAGeMENT;              4
DEPAHTMENT HEADS:  3
SECTION HEADS:        is
OTHER PROFESSIONALS:
At Headquarlsnt:     t5
Dp.pted:               a
TOTAL PROFESSIONALS: S5
CLERICAL:            8S4
OTHER:                43                                                                   MANAGING DIRECTOR
ALINAGHI      -SECR-ETARY- 
FARMAN FARMAIAN                                 CF THE BOARD
DEPUTY MANAGING
DIRECTOR
AHMAD Z.AI
PUBLIC&ITERNATIERohAL                                                                 LEGAL OFFICE                   INTERNAL AUDITORI
P. T IATIONS 
UffjMOr I                                                Offic.A I
4 3
ASSIZSTANT MANAGING DIRECTOR                                                                                                                                             ASSISTANT MANAGING DIRECTOR|
PRODJecTS                                                                                                                                                          CREDITS AND SUPERVISION I
PARVIZ SHARON                                                                                                                                                           HAOJIGHA2flASKAR        |
=    Cbn4'   ~~~7 Crol                                                                                                                                                                   3  
UtINDUSTRIAL PROMOTION                                                                                        TREASURY AND ACCOUNTING                                 INDUSTRIAL AFFAIRS                                               CREDIT DEPARTMENT
DEPART1119                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPARTMENT                      DEPARTTENTEPAARTENT
|   E FARID                                                           A. AMANf                                     H. FAYAZ                                      __EWAZARNDUR
|  Cle7Rf1  1                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C1.i.1   3          Chil     ZIlru 
l  ll                                                                7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2                                                                                                                               3
FINANCIAL           TECHNICAL           ECONOMIC                                    PROJECT             PROJECT                 GENERAL                                    PROJECT             CAPKITAL            AALOCEI                                      ANEGOEAIN
STUDIES             SUDIES              STUDIES                                  DEVELDPMENT         PR EPARATION              SERUICESACUTN                             SUPERVISION           LUAPIT             ADECTING                SECTIONOPIATON
SECTION             SECTION             SECTIDO                                    SECTION              SECTIUN                                    SECTION                  ECTION            SECT IO                                                         SECTION HHI
OfiO r I            O                                                            | OHins  t     |lW,    I  Dfli.,    1  SfIi.,r    I  ffc.f                  t             Off|., IHOiia                t          Offi.,    I                                   I., |rffi                   ,
Pr.Ir... h B        Pr.ISt.ianh N       PF,Sian*.I, S                               Pttl*I-1i3d 2     | P,o04io-,,I 2|                              CI.,iaI  3E P|          c               |   i7 Ntf--l- 4 |A| P4a ial- 3 |           |                      CIN,Ial   2 |
la                                                                                             E 3  CI,7R 3






INDUSTRIAL CREDIT BANK
Summary of Operations. 1960 through 1974
(in million Rials)
1961-1968        1969           1970          1971           1972           1973          1974           Total
Approvals
Long-term loans                    1,736.8          871.7         645.4        1,052.0       2,2D4.0        2,654.4        6,927.0        16,091.3
Working capital loans              2,342.6          937.2         714.9          261.9         660.1        1,532.9         1,842.0         8,291.6
Equity investments                   713.6          60.0           21.2          256.0          81.9          852.0         1,233.0        3,217.7
Guarantees                         1,649.2           84.5         594.4         195.8          219.6          525.9           630.3        3,899.7
Total            1,442.2        1,953.        1,975.9        1,765.7       3,165.6        5,565.7        10,632.3        31,500.3
Commitments
Long-term loans                    1,117.3         631.0          770.7          897.0         652.6        3,664.8         3,489.0       11,222.4
Working capital loans              1,798.8        1,00l.4         535.7          389.9         660.1          909.2         1,946.0         7,241.1
Equity investments                   713,6           60.0          21.2          256.0          81.9          852.0         1,233.0         3,217.7
Guarantees                         1,606.2           84.5         412.7          351.7         219.6          525.9           630.3        3,830.9
Total            5,235.9        17T-9         1,740.3        l,894.6        1,614.2       5,951.9         7,73
Disbursements
Long-term loans                      890.7          716.9         720.3          674.6         795.9        1,840.2         2,982.0         8,620.6
Working capital loans              1,798.8          964.4         559.0          398.8         6660o          831.0         1,9t0.0       7,198.0
Equity investments                   523.2           97.2         128.4           18.2         114.4          903.0           587.0         2,371.4
Total            3,212.7        1,778.5       1,407.7        1,091.6       31,7603        3,574.2         5,59.          168,IYO0
Repayments
Long-term loans                      134.3           88.6         156.0          262.4         418.9          439.6           524.6         2,024.4
Working capital loans                986.3          646.9         811.3          331.2         726.6          434.2           909.0         4,845.5
Equity investment (sales)            127.5           53.4          39.7           41.5            1.5         143.4           100.0           507.0
Guarantees                           669.1          148.          176.5          255.9          400.8         477.4           681.          2801.5
Total            1,9172           937.        1,183.5          891.0        517.          1,494.6           fl355        10,178.4
Outstanding
Long-term loans                      756.5        1,384.7       1,948.9        2,361.2       2,738.2        4,138.9         6,596.3         6,596.3
Working capital loans                812.5        1,130.0          877,7         945.3          884.7       1,281.5         2,352.5         2,352.5
Equity investments                   395,8          439.5         528.3          505.1          617.9       1,377.5         1,864,8         1,864.8
Guarantees                           947.0          872.6       1 108.9        1 204.7       1,023.5        1,071.          1               1
Total            2,901.7        3,82678        4 463.8       5;016.3        T,26403        7,869.8       12,41608       _12,46.8
EMENA/IC & DFC
April 1974



INDUSTRIAL CREDIT BANK
Comparative Statement of Loans Committed FY61-FY73
(in million Rials)
-- ------__----------------------------------- Year ending March 20, ------------------------------------------------
1961-1970                     1971                     1972                      1973                   1961-1973
No.   Amount        ,     No. Amount                 o .  Amount              No.  Amount               No.   Amount
TYPE OF INDUSTRY
Foodstuffs                                          46     627.6    25.1       10    139.0      15.5      7     82.5    12.6        7     85.4    2.3        70     934.5    12.1
Textile                                             28      301.6    12.1       4    119.0      13.3      5    225.0    34.5       14    372.0   10.2        51   1,017.6    13.2
Metallurgicals                                      39      379.2    15.2       6      47.0      5.2      1      4.5      0.7       8    390.6   10.7        54      821.3    10.7
Chemicals                                            4       69.7     2.8       4     28.9       3.2      7     54.1      8.3       2     15.1    0.4        17      167.8     2.2
Cold Storage                                        17       53.2     2.1       2      50.4      5.6      2     12.0      1.8      -      -       -          21      115.6     1.5
Paper and Paper Products                            -        -       -         -       -        -                                   2  1,110.2   30.3         2   1,110.2    14.4
Flectrical                                          11       45.5     1.8       1     33.0       3.7      2     21.0      3.2      -      -       -          14       99.5     1.3
Leather                                              4       49.2     2.0      -       - -           -       -       -             -      -       -           14      49.2     0.6
Construction Materials                              314    472.2    18.9       10    260.3      29.0      7     57.8      8.9      13  1,081.5   29.5        64   1,871.8    24.3
Wood                                                11      200.6     8,0       3      47.5      5.3      4     59.7      9.2       3     53.0    1.4        21      360.8      4.7
Workshop Industries                                 -        -       -         -       -        -         -     -        -          4    381.0   10.4         4      381.0      4.9
Others                                              24      298.4    12.0       8    171.9      19.2      6    136.0    20.8        9    176.0    4.8        47      782.3    10.1
TOTAL              218   2,497.2   100.0       48    897.0    100.0    41    652.6   100.0         62  3,664.8  100.0       369   7,711.6   100.0
LOCATION
Tehran and Suburbs                                 116   1,097.7    44.0       22    432.2      48.2    11    103.8    15.9        24  1,835.2   50.1       173   3,468.9    45.0
Provinces                                          102   1,399.5    56.o       26    464.8      51.8    30    548.8    84.1        38  1,829.6   49.9       196   4.242.7    55.0
TOTAL              218   2,497.2   100.0       48    897.0    100.0    41    652.6   100.0         62  3,664.8  100.0       369   7,711.6   100.0
SIZE OF LOANS
Up to Rials 10 million                             171      696.6    27.9      26    117.6      13.1    29    175.6    26.9        19    100.1    2.7       245   1,089.9    14.1
Rials 10 million - Rials 50 million                 36      930.7    37.3      19    46414      51.8      9    217.0    33.3       28    598.1   16.3        92   2,210.2    28.7
Rials 50 million - Rials 100 million               l       699.9    28.0       1      80.0       8.9     2    140.0    21.4        7    490.4   13.4        20   1,410.3    18.3
Over Rials 100 million                               1      170.0     6.8       2    235.0      26.2      1    120.0    18.4        8  2,476.2   67.6        12   3,001.2    38.9
TOTAL              218   2,497.2   100.0       48    897.0    100.0    41    652.6   100.0         62  3,664.8  100.0       369   7,711.6   100.0
TYPE OF OPERATION
New                                                139   1,877.1    75.2       39    709.7       79.1    28    513.4    78.7       51  2,531.4   69.1       307   5,631.6    73.0
E:xpansion                                          29      620.1    24.8       9    187,3      20.9    13    139.2    21.3        11  1,133.4   30.9        62   2,080.0    27.0
TOTAL              218   2,497.2   100l 0      48    897.0    100.0    41    652.6   100.0         62  3,664.8  100.0       369   7.711.6   100.0
DURATION OF LOANS
Up to 3 years                                        24     103.4      4.1       9     77.4       8.6     9      26.2      4.0       4     36.0    1.0        46     243.0      3.1
From 3 uP to 5 years                               126      930.5    37.3      28    537.6       59.9    27    308.4    47.3       20    588.1   16.0        201   2,364.6    30.7
From 5 up to 10 years                               68   1,463.3    58.6       11    282.0       31.5     5    318.0   148.7       38  3,040.7   83.0       122   5.104.0    66.2
TOTAL              218   2,497.2   100.0       48    897.0    100.0    41    652.6   100.0         62  3,664.8  100o.       369   7.711.6   100.0
i42NA/IC & DFC
Aoril 1974



INDUSTRIAL CREDIT RANK
Comparative Statement of Ebuity Operations and Working Capital Commiitments (FY61-FY73)
(in million Rials)
1/                                                                                                       TOTAL
Eauity ODerations                                               Working CaPital Commitments                      EAuity & Working Capital
1961-1970         1970-1973            196-1973                   1961-1970          1970-1973              1961-1973
No. Amount        No. Amount    No. Amount   _                    No.  Amount        No.  Amount        No. Amount                 No.   Anaount
TYPE OF INDUSTRY
Foodstuffs                                  13     159.2        7     359.6    20      518.8   29.0           56    1,883.6      26    1,143.9      82   3,027.5   57.2        102    3,546.3    50.1
Textile                                     -      -            2       1.1     2        1.1    0.1           16       489.3      9       294.7     25     784.0   14.8         27       785.1    11.1
Metallurgicals                               4     112.6        2      70.9     6      183.5  10.3              9      155.5       7      136.8     16      292.3    5.5         22      475.8      6.7
Chemicals                                   -      -            1      24.5     1       24.5    1.4             1        1.4     11       185.0     12     186.4    3.5         13       210.9      3.0
Paper and Paper Products                     2      50.0        2      50.0     4      100.0    5.6            -       -          1         5.0      1        5.0    0.1          5      105.0     1.5
Leather                                     -                   -     -                -       -               2        18.0     -        -          2       18.0    0.3         2        18.0     0.3
Construoction Materials                      5     428.6        4     338.B     9      767.4  43.0              6       90.1      8       121.6     14      211.7    4.0         23      979.1    13.8
Wood                                                  -            -       -           -       -                3        5.9       3       47.0      6       52.9    1.0          6       52.9      0.7
Banks                                       -                   1     190.1     1      190.1  10.6             -       -         -                  -      -         -            1      190.1      2.7
Other                                        _     _            1       0.7     1        0.7    0.0            15      692.4      8        25.2     19      717.6   13.6         20      718.3    10.1
TOTAL             24     750.4       20   1,035.7    44   1,786.1  100.0            108    3,336.2     6      1,959.2    177   5.25.4  100.0          221    7,081.5   100.0
LOCATION
Tehran                                       4     112.6        5     286.3     9      398.9  22.3            30       816.4     26       409.7     56   1,226.1   23.2          65    1,625.0    22.9
Provincea                                   20     637.8       15     749.4    35   1,387.2   77.6             78    2.519.8      43    1,549.5    121   4.069.3   76.8         156    5.456.5    77.1
TOTAL             24      750.4      20   1,035.7    44   1,786.1  100.0            108    3,336.2      69    1,959-     177   5.295.4  100.0         221    7,081.5   100.0
SIZE
Up to Rials 10 million                      12      43.2        9      11.3    21       54.5    3.0            50      161.4      31      147.6      81     309.0    5.8        102      363.5      5.1
Rials 10 million - Rials 50 million          9      226.2       4      91.8    13      318.0  17.8             41    1,185.7      25      621.7     66   1,807.4   34.1          79    2,125.4    30.0
Biala 50 million - Rials 100 million         2     152.9        2     146.5      4     299.4  16.8             12      884.1       8      480.2      20   1,364.3   25.8         24    1,663.7    23.5
Over Rials 100 million                       1     328.1        5     786.1     6   1,114.2   62.4              5    1,105.0       5      709.7      10  1814.7   34.3          16    2,928.9    41.4
TOTAL             24      750-4      20   1,035.7    44   1,786.1  100.0            108    3,336.2      69    1,959.2    177   5,295.4  100.0         221    7,081.5   100.0
1/  Disbursements
OMNA/IC & DFC
April 1974



AINKI 8
INDUISTRAL CREDIT BANK OF IRAN
Interest Rates and Charges
INTEREST RATES
Long-term Loans:    Tehran and Suburbs:  10% per year on the disbursed and out-
standing amount of the loan.
Provinces: 9% per year for the amount disbursed
and outstanding
SmaU loans:   8-1/2% per year on the amount disbursed
and outstanding.
Service charge: AU long-term loans are subject to a
service charge of 1/2% per year which is
included in the above interest rates.
Working Capital Loans: 11% per year on the disbursed and outstanding amount of
the loan.
Penalty Interest:       4% on the principal amounts of the loan overdue three
months and not yet paid.
CHARGES
Com itment Fee:         0.5% per year on the undisbursed amount of the loan
from the date of commitment.
Guarantee Fee:          1% - 1.5% on the outstanding amount guaranteed
depending on the type of industry and risk.
Study Fee:              Depending on the amount of the loan or investment and
ranging from Rls 5,000 for amounts up to Rls 2 million
to Rls 20,000 for amounts between Rls 7-10 million
Loans and investments above RIs 10 million pay Rls 20,000
plus one thousandth of the surplus over Rls 10 million
with a maximum of Rls 300,000.
Discount Charge:        7-8.5% depending on time discounted.
Collection Fee:         1.5% of the face amount of bills for collection in the
Tehran area, and 1% on bills for collection in the provinces.
EMENA/IC & DFC
April 1974



ANNE1,9
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT BANK
Resource Position
(as of March 20, 19714)
Amount                 Interest   Contracted    Terms
(in million Rials)
LONG TERM RESOURCES
Share capital                          4,319.9
Surplus, Reserves
and Provisions                          900.0
5,219.9
Plan Organization Loans
No. 1                                  106.0                  3%      11/6/63       1992-97
No. 2                                  370.0                  4%      11/26/68      1992-97
No. 3                                  500.0
976.0       4%     12/25/73       1994-99
Foreign Loans
Russian loans 1/                    (3,265.0)                 4%      3/6/73         1974-83
Chemical Bank                        1,136.1               Variable  10/10/72        1976-80
Deutsche Bank                        1,136.1               Variable  8/4/73          1978-83
Export-Import 2/                     1,362.0                   6%     10/2/73       1978-82
COFACE                                 300                     6%     2/5/74         1979-88
3.934.2
Total long-term resources                        10,130.1
Less: Outstanding Portfolio
long-term                           7,179.2
equity                              1.864.8
9,o414.0
Less:  Other fixed assets                111.0
9,l55.0
Available for disbursement                          975.1
Less: Undisbursed commitments
Loans                               2,100.0
Equity                                789.0
2,889.0
Resources available for
commitment (long-term)                         (1,931.9)
SHORT TERM RESOURCES
Current account                       1,066.6                    -         -
Plan Organization
Advances on managed funds               910.4                    -         -
Central Bank overdraft                2,600.0                    7%       8/5/73         1 year
Total short-term resources                        4,577.0
Less: Working Capital
Loans Outstanding                               2,352.5
Resources Available
for disbursements                               2,224.5
Less: Undisbursed
working capital                                    43-o
Resources Available
for commitment (short-term)                     2,181.5
Total resources available
for commitment                                    267.6
V ICB management does not consider this loan usuable, and, therefore it does not count
it among ICB's resources.
2/ The line of credit presently signed is for $11 million, Since it is extendable to $20
million, and ICB plans to do so shortly, the total amount has been considered in ICB's
resources at end of FY 74.
EMENA/IC & DFC
April 1974



INDUSTRIAL CREDIT BANK
Analysis of Loan Portfolio, as of March 21, 1973
(Amounts in million Rials)
A.  Status of Long-Term and Working Capital Loans
Long-Term Loans                                                  Working Capital Loans
Portfolio                                                           Portfolio
Status                                Loans       Companies       Amount          %                      Loans        Companies        Amount
Repaying regularly                     120           109          1,372.4       34.06                       7              7              202.3        15.78
In grace period                         57            49          1,565.2       38.85                     41             35               784.2        61.20
In default over three months            23            23            202.8        5.03                     16             13               200.1        15.61
Rescheduled/renewed 3/                  28            27            888.9       22.06                      9               a               94.9         7.41
Total             228           208         4,029.3      100.00                      73             63            1,281.5       100.00
B. Loans in Default
Long-Term Loans                                                  Working Capital Loans
Portfolio                                                           Portfolio
Outstanding          In Default                                    Outstanding              In Default
Arrears                          Companies   Amount   __    Principal   Interest   Total              Companies   Amount   _Jjj   Principal   Interest   Total
Three to six months                  9         89.5    44.13       6.o          2.7        8.7            -          -         -          -           -          -
Six to twelve months                 4         12.9     6.36       5.6          0.8       6.4              2         22.2    11.10        6.3         0.5        6.8
Twelve to twenty-four months         1          4.6     2.27       1.5          0.3       1.8             1          36.o    28.00       36.o         -         36.0
Over twenty-four months              9         95.8    47.24      95.8         17.0     112.8            10         141.9    70.90    141.9          14.1      156.0
Total          23       202.8   100.00    108.9          20.8      129.7            13         200.1   100.00    184.2         14.6      198.8
1/  This category includes loans in default for less than three months.
7/ Eccluding workshop loans
5/ In last three years
EMENAIC & DFC
April 1974



ANNEX 11
Industrial Credit Bank
Equity Portfolio as of March 20, 1973
Year       Outstanding Investment 4/ Par value   % paid   ICB'a share   Estimated
Company                     Industry   Acquired      No.         Amount       of share       in     in copany    value
(million Rials)   (Rials)                     -  (million Rials)
Listed on Stock Exchange
Shirin Khorasan Co.        Sugar         1965        5,310       29,736          10,000      65          8.85      36,130 1/
Kermanshah Sugar Co.       Sugar         1963        4,742       23,710           5,000    100           5.86      32,250 1/
Soofian Cement Co.         Cement        1966       17,380      173 800          10,000    100          44.56    181 412 1/
Total                                                2726299
Profitable-not listed
Fars and Khuzestan Cement
Co.                      Cement        1959       39,220      392,200          10,000    100          16.34    440,283 2/
Kermanshah Dairy Co.       Dairy         1968        9,000        7,963           1,000      88.5       21.36       8oo2/
Total                                                1400.163                                          4828
Unprofitable
a. Good pro m,ects
Pars Paper Co.         Paper         1968       10,000      100,000          10,000    100           5.50    100,000 2/
Lorestan Sugar Co.     Sugar         1968       13,877      138,770          10,000    100          44.05    138,770 2/
Shahrood Sugar Co.     Sugar         1967        9,928       99,280          10,000    100          48.00      99,280 2/
Cast Iron Melting Co.  foundry       1969        1,000       10,000          10,000    100          32.90      10,Oo0 2/
Bam Date Co.           Date          1969        1,738       17 380          10,000    100          43.45      17 380 2/
Total                                                3,0                                               3     0
b. Uncertain Prospects
Pars Chemicals Co.    Paints         1971          612       24,480          40,000    100          27.20      10,000 2/
Esfahan Canning Co.    Food
processing  1968           521       5,210           10,000    loo          23068        033 2/
Total                                                 29,690                                             l 3
c.  Under Construction-
Starting up
Hekmantan Sugar Co.    Sugar         1972       32,000      160,000           5,000    100          80.00    160,000 3/
Synthetic Fibers Co.   Rayon         1972          200          700          10,000      35          7.00         700 3/
Gorgan and Mazandaran
Cement Co.            Cement        1973          400        1,715          10,000      35         24.50       1,715 3/
Gkarb Cement Co.       Cement        1973          300        1,050          10,000      35         30.00       1,050 j/
Naghshe Jahan
Ceramios Ce.          China         1973          200          700          10,000      35         40.00         700 3/
Berenj Agro            Agro-
Industrial Co.         industry    1973            98          343          10,0oo      35         49.00         343 3/
Keehbaf Double         Knitting      1973          120          420          10,000      40         40.00         420
Shahriar Bank          Bank          1973       38,012      190 060          10,000      50          7.60    190 060
Total                                                 __t ____
Grand Total                                         1,377.517                                        1,429,326
1/  Market value
2/ Book value
3/ Par value
/ At cost
EMSNA/IC & DFC
April 1974



ANmEX 12
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT BLNX
Balance Sheets, 1970-1973 (audited) 1974 (unaudited)
(in million Rials)
(As of March 20)                                       1970          1971          1972          1973            1974
ASSET
Cash and Banks                                                        151.0         455.3         333.8          167.8           202.3
Legal deposit uith Central Bank                                       369.4         411.9         487.5         548.2            476.4
Time deposits                                                         120.0         120.0         165.0         282.0            101.0
Notes and bonds                                                        81.0          84.1         151.1         181.2            131.6
Bills discounted                                                       37.1         107.1          94.9         106.9            148.1
Accounts receivable and other
short-term assets                                                 1,111.2       1,085.4       1,035.8       1,154.2          1,931.1
Portfolio:
Working capital loans                                               877.7         945.3         884.7       1,281.5          2,352.5
Long-term loans - own management                                  1,948.9       2,361.2       2,738.2       4,138.9          6,596.3
- managed by IMDBI                                  582.9         582.9         582.9         582.9            582.9
3,409.5        3,889.4      4,205.        6,009,531.7
Equity investments (at cost)                                        528.3         505.1         617.9       1 377.5          1,864.8
Total portfolio                                3,937.8       4,394.5       4,823.7       73W.8           11,396.5
Provision for doubtful accounts                                      (200.0)       (240.0)       (280.0)       (320.0)          (380.0)
Appropriated collateral                                                13,3         132.1         290.1         163.8             14.3
Property and equipment (net)                                           36.6          28.4          22.7         103.5             96-7
Total Assets                                 5,657.4       6,578.8       7,124.6       9,768.4         14,118.0
IIABILITIES
Current Accounts:
Customers                                                           196.6         186.7         193.0         242.8            243.2
Other banks                                                          10.3          19.6          17.8          59.6             67.8
Plan Organizationi                                                1,322.2       1,598.3       1,485.5       1,874.1          1,066.6
Time and other deposits                                                66.2          14.0          14.5          12.4            440.2
Advances on Managed Funds                                             413.6         778.6         843.7         755.8            910.4
Other Liabilities                                                     256.5         461.3         506.5         473.8          1,615.8
Borrowing:
Central Bank (short-term)                                           980.0          125.0         125.0          65.o         1,658.4
Plan Organization (long-term)                                       193.0          484.o         476.o         476.o            976.0
Foreign Borrowings (long-term)                                        -             -                        1,136.1          2,299.7
Share capital                                                      1,948.4       2,600.0       3,110.0       4,269.9          4,319.9
Legal reserve                                                        192.8         227.3         261.9         311.7            418.9
Surplus                                                               77.7          84.o          90.7          91.2            101.1
Net Worth                                    2,218.9       2,911.3       3,462.6       4,672.8          4,839.9
Net l ortities and                        5,657.4       6,578.8       7,124.6       9,768.4         14,118.0
GUARANTEES                                                            1,108.9       1,204.7       1,023.4       1,071.9          1,020.3
MANAGED FUNDS
Loans and Investmeonts                                              1,627.6       2,107.0      10,973.1      15,998.4         18,098.3
Cash advances                                                         413.6         778.6         843.6         755.8            747.6
2,041.2       2,885.6      11,816.7      16,754.2        18,845.9
RATIOS
1/
Total debt7equity                                                     2.0:1         1,7:1         1.4:1         1.3:1          2.1:1
Long-term debt/equity                                                 0.5:1         0.5:1          0.4:1         0.5:1         0.8:1
Provisions/total portfolio                                            5.1%          5.5%          5.8%          4.3%           3-4%
Equity investment/equity                                             23.8%         17,3%         17.8%         29.5%           38.5%
1/ Including guarantees.
EMENA/IC & DFC
April 1974



INDUSTRIAL CREDIT BANK
Statement of Income, 1970-1973 (Audited) and 1974 (Unaudited)
(in million Rials)
(Fiscal Year ended March 20)                              1970           1971           1972          1973            1974
INCOME
Interest and commissions                                     253.1          341.9          407.5         531.3           850.0
Other income                                                  51.4           41.6           20.9          35.3           230.0
Total income                                 304.5          383.5         428.4          566.6        1,080.0
EXPENSES
Interest and commissions                                      16.6           25.2           39.3          58.4           260.0
Administrative and general                                    73.3            79.5         109.7         122.1           136.0
Depreciation                                                   8.6             9.0           9.0           9.7             9.0
Total expenses                                95.8          113.7          158.0         190.2           405.0
Profit before Tax and Provisions                             206.0           269.8         270.4         376.4           675.0
Provisions                                                 40.0           40.0           4o.o          40.0            60.0
Taxes on income                                           112.9          142.5          142.5         215.0           405.0
Net profit                                                    53.1            87.3          87.9         121.4           210.0
APPROPRIATIONS
Legal reserves                                                24.9            34.5          34.6          49.8           107.2
Ermployees' profit sharing                                     8.3            11.5          11.5          21.1            42.9
Dividends                                                      15.0           35.0          35-.           50.0           50.0
Surplus                                                         4.9            6.3           6.8           0.5             9.9
53.1           87.3          87.9         121.4           210.0
RATIOS
Total income/average total assets                              5.3%            6.1%         6*2%          6.7%             9.0%
Administrative expenses/average total assets                    1.3%           1.3%          1.6%          1 .4%           1.2%
Financial expense/average total assets                          0.3%           0.4%          0.6%         0.7%             2.1%
Net earnings/average net worth                                  2.5%           3.5%          2.7%          2.9%            4.4%
Net earnings/average share capital                              2.8%           3.8%          3.0%          3.3%            4.8%
ERENA/IC & DFC
April 1974






ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 7
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT BANK
A. Major Assumptions Underlying the Projections 1975/79
I. BUSINESS FORECAST
Approvals:         Gross approvals of long-term loans for FY 1975 are based on
ICB's pipeline of projects, including those promoted by
ICB. A 20% growth rate thereafter has been assumed.
Equity participations to be approved in FY 1975 on a case-
by-case basis. A 10% growth rate thereafter has been
assumed. Financing of other local currency operations are
assumed to be maintaining a stable level of Rials 50
million.
Commitments:        60% of net annual approvals of long-term loans will be
committed on the year of commitment, 40% remaining the year
thereafter. Approvals of equity investments and other
local currency financing will be committed the same year
of approval.
Disbursements:      30% of long-term loans commitments will be disbursed in
the same year of commitment, 50% the year after and 20%
in the second year following commitment. Equity investments
will be disbursed 35% in the year of commitment and 65% the
year after. Other local currency financing will be fully
disbursed in the year of commitment. The import component
of ICB's long-term loans has been assumed at 60%.
II. INCOME STATEMENT
Income:            Interest income from long-term loans managed by ICB:  an
average interest rate of 7.8% on the past loan operations
has been assumed. The loan portfolio derived from opera-
tions approved in FY 1975 onwards has been assumed to yield
8.7% on the average. This average assumes that (i) loans in
the Tehran Metropolitan Area will pay 1W% , (ii) those
outside the Tehran Metropolitan Area wiUl pay 9%, (iii)
smaU loans in the pzovinces (to projects with fixed assets
below $500,000) will pay 8.5%, and (iv) the proportion of loans
outside/inside the Tehran area and that of small loans will
be the same as today. A 0.5% Commitment Fee on undisbursed
long-term commitments has been assumed.



ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 7
Agency fees have been rounded up to 1% on Managed Funds
outstanding. Income from Letters of Credit has been
assumed to increase at 20% per annum over real 1974 figures.
Income from guarantee increases at 10% per annum over real
1974 figures.
The income derived from ICB's equity portfolio has been
estimated as follows:  dividend   will be received annually
at a level of 12% of ILB's profitable portfolio (52% of
total portfolio - the same as at the end of FY 1973).
Profits from sales of equity investments will be 10% of
annual sales (assumed to be 10% of ICB's profitable portfolio).
Other income will come from securities held and other
holdings and has been maintained at FY 74 levels.
Ex&penses:         Central Bank overdrafts will cost 7% and past Plan and Budget
Organization loans 5%. Future PBO loans at 7%. The Bank
loan will be at 7.25% plus a 0.75% commitment charge. Pro-
visions for bad debts have been estimated at 2% of incre-
mental portfolio. Salaries, wages and administrative ex-
penses will grow at 25% per annum over the FY 1974 level.
Appropriations of profits are as follows: (i) bonus
paid to employees are estimated at 6% of profits before
taxes; (ii) legal reserves are at 15% of profit before
taxes minus provisions for bad debts; (iii) a 60% tax
liability over income before tax and provisions has been
assumed. All the remaining income available after deducing
(i) to (iii) above has been assumed to be dividends accrued
to the share capital.
III. CASH-FLOW STATEMENTS
Existing foreign borrowings (Chemical Bank and Deutsche Bank)
will be prepaid with PBO funds allocated to that effect in
FY 1975-76. Funds from the Plan Organization will come to ICB
under two forms: long-term loans and equity to ICB when
needed to keep up with the debt/equity ratio of 4:1. Conse-
quently, share increases of Rials 2, 1.5 and 1.5 billion,
respectively have been assumed in FY 77, 78, 79.



ANNEN 14
Page 3 of 7
Terms of the new PBO loans (still to be determined by the
Government)have been assumed to be the same as the IBRD
loans. A second IBRD loan for $40 million has been
assumed in FY 77. Disbursements of tied lines of credit
follow commitments with a time log as per ICB's estimate.
IV. BALANCE SHEETS
The current account of the Plan Organization has been
assumed constant at F! 74 levels throughout the period.
The overdraft from the Central Bank will be repaid at
the same pace as the working capital portfolio is
repaid.



INDUSTRIAL CREDIT BANK OF IRAN
B. Projections of Business FY 1975-79 (in millions Rls)
-------------------Year Ending March 20____________________________
1972     1973      1974     1975      1976     1977      1978      1979     Total 1975-1979
---------Actual--------    -------------Projected-------------------
APPROVALS
- Long-term loans               2,204    2,254    6,873    8,260    9,910   11,890   14,270    17,120             61,450
- Equity investments                82      852    1,233    1,360    1,500    1,650    1,820         2,000         8,330
- Working capital loans            660    1,533    1,842        -        -         -        -          -             -
- Other local currency loans       -        400        54       50        50        50       50         50         2 500
Total:  2,94o6   5,039   10,002    9,670   l1-TW    25T-    1614           19,170
- Guarantees                       220      526       630    1,000    1,200    1,440    1,728        2,100         7,468
COMMlTMENTS
- Long-term loans                  653    3,284    3,416    7,705    9,250   11,098   13,318    15,980            57,351
(of which foreign crncy)                                  (4,620)  (5,550)  (6,660   (7,990)   (9,580)         (34,400)
- Equity investmentsl               82      852    1,233    1,360    1,500    1,650    1,820         2,000         8,330
- Working capital loans            660      909    1,946      -          -         -        -         -              -
- Other local currency loans        -        81        73       50         050          50              50           250
Total:  1,39                 65   10,600   12,71                                 0591 1
- Guarantees                       220      526       630    1,000    1,200    1,440    1,728        2,100         7,468
DISBURSEMENTS
- Long-term loans                  796    1,730    2,766    4,668    6,932    9,610   11,533    13,835            46,578
- Equity investments               114      903       587    1,265    1,409    1,552    1,710        1,883         7,819
- Working capital loans            666      831    1,980        43       -          -       -          -43
- Other local currency loans        -       110       216      178                  50                  50            78
Total:  1 77      3,574      ,       6551IR 7,3 l 11,212   13,293    15,768                 0     E
EMENA/IC & DFC
April 1974



ANNEX 114
Page 5 of 7
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT BANK
C. Projected Statement of Income FY75-79
(in million Rials)
(Fiscal years ending March 20)   1974        1975       1976      1977       1978      1979
Actual           -------Projected------------------
INCOME
Interest                      640        953     1,473      2,118      2,826     3,724
Commissions and fees          210        243       269        300        333       365
Other income                  230        136        208       281        361       401
Total income            1,080      1,332     1,950      2,699     3,520      4,490
EXPENSES
Interest and commissions      260        454       910      1,464     2,120      2,933
Salaries and wages            100        124        155       194        242       302
Depreciation                    9          1          1         1          1         1
Other administrative
expenses                     36         50        62         77        96        110
Total expenses            405        629     1,128      1,736     2,459      3,346
Profit before tax
and provisions                675        703       822        963      1,061     1,144
Provisions for losses        60        100       130        175        200       230
Taxes on income             405        422       490        578       636        686
Net profit                      210        181        202       210        225       228
APPROPRIATIONS
Employees profit sharing       43         47         54        57         62        72
Dividends                      50         40         40        35         35        20
Reserves                      107         94       108        118        128       136
Surplus                        10               -               -          -         -
RATIOS                        ---------as percentage of average total assets---------
Interest income               5.4        5.7       6.5        6.9       8.1        8.9
Total income                  9.0       8.o        8.6        8.8       8.9        9.0
Financial expenses            2.2        2.7       4.0        4.8       5.3        5.8
Gross spread                  6.8        5.3       4.6        4.0       3.6        3.2
Salaries, wages and admi-
nistrative expenses         1.2        1.0       1.0        0.9       0.9        0.8
Profit before tax and
provisions                  5.7       4.2        3.6        3.2       2.7        2.3
Provisions for losses         0.5       o.6        o.6        o.6       0.5        0.4
Net Profit                    1.7        1.1       0.9        0.7       o.6        0.5
---------------------as percentage---------------------
Net profit/average
share capital                 4.8       4.1        4.6        3.9       3.1        2.6
Net profit/average
net worth                     4.4       3.7        4.0        3.4       2.8        2.4
EKEXA/IC & DFC
April 1974



ANNEX 14
INDSTRIAL CREDIT BANK                                            Page 6 of 7
D.  Projected Balance Sheets FY75-79
(in million Rials)
(Fiscal year ended March 20)                     1971          1975          1976           1977           1978         1979
Actual-       -   - - - - - - - - - - - Projected - - - - - - - - - - - -
ASSETS
Cash and deposits                                            1,059         1,356         1,465          1,528          1,722        1,550
Short-term assets                                            1,931        1,931          1,931          1,931         1,931         1,931
Current portion of long-term portfolio                         790         1,280         1,962          2,886         3,930         4,200
Working capital loans                                        2 353         2 161         1 946          1 756         1,584         1,429
Current assets                                            133        67             79,6 7                                     9,110
Portfolio:
Long-term loans - own management                        5,806        9,372         14,392        21,166         28,819        38,504
- managed by IMDBI                       583           583           583            583            583          583
6,389        9,955         Ti77                         29,12 7 i     39,087
Equity portfolio (at cost)                              1,865        3,030          4,279         5.616          7.,o46        8,579
Total portfolio                    8,254        12,985        19,254         27,365        36,448        47,666
Provisions for losses                                         (380)         (480)         (610)          (785)          (985)      (1,215)
Property and equipment                                          14           13             12             11            10             9
Other assets                                                    97           97             97             97            97            97
Total assets                      14,118       19,343         26,057         34,789        44,737        55,667
LIABILITIES
Current accounts, deposits and
Other short-term  liabilities                           3,434        2,434          2,184         2,184          2,184         2,184
Advances on Managed Funds                                      gio          gio           g9o             g9O           91o           gio
Current portion of long-term debt                                -             -           213          1,178         2,490         3,340
Central Bank overdraft                                       1,658        1.658          1,658          1.492         1.326         1,160
Current Liabilities                                     6,002        5,002          4,965         5,764          6,910         7,594
Long-term borrowings:
Plan Organization                                         976        8,112         15,248        20,373         26,623        34,523
Eurodollar borrowings    j                              2,272        1,136              -              -             -             -
IBRD I ($ 25 mil.) and II ($ 40 mil.)                       -           61            604         1,167          1,996         2,526
Other foreign borrowings  2/                               28           58            118            210           270           430
Total long-term debt               3,276        9,367         15,970         21,750        28,889        37,479
Share capital                                                4,320        4,360          4,400          6,435         7,970         9,490
Reserves                                                       419          513            621            739           867         1,003
Surplus                                                        101           101           101            101           101           101
Total equity                       4,840        4,974          5,122          7,275         8,938        10,594
Total liabilities and equity      114,118      19,343         26,057        34,789         44,737        55,667
Guarantees                                              1,020        1,498          1,698         1,813          1,994         2,193
Managed Funds                                          18,846       20,272         22,299        24,529         26,986        29,680
RATIOS
Total debt 3/ /equity                                        2.1:1        3.1:1          4.14:1         4.0:1         4.2:1         4.5:1
Long-term  3// equity                                        o.8:1        2.2:1          3.5:1          3.4:1         3.7:1         4.0:1
Provisions/total portfolio  4/                               3.4%         2.9%           2.7%           2.5%          2.4%          2.3%
Equity investment/equity                                      39%          60%            83%            77%            79%          81%
1/ Chemical Bank, Deutsche Banx.
2/ Existing, or about to be signed, tied lines of credit.
/ Including guarantees.
i/ Including working capital loans.
EMENA/ IC & DFC
April 1974



ANNEX 14
Page 7 of 7
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT BANK
E. Projected Cash-Flow Statements FY75-79
(in million Rials)
(Fiscal year ended March 20)   1975        1976      1977       1978      1979
SOURCES
Net income                             181       202        210       225        228
Non cash charges                       101       131        176       201        231
Total cash generation               282       333        386       426        459
Share capital increase                   -         -      2,000     1,500      1,500
Collections:
Long-term loans                   790      1,280      1,962     2,886      3,930
Working capital loans              235       215        190       172        155
Drawndown on borrowings:
Plan and Budget Organization
loans                         7,136      7,136     6,ooo      8,ooo    10,500
Foreign borrowings ff              91        816        958     1,629      1,,430
Sale of equity investments        100        160        215       280        350
Increase (decrease) in current
accounts, deposits and other
short-term liabilities           (1,000)      (250)         -          -       _
Total sources                   7,634      9,690    11,711    14,893    18,324
======   ======   ======   ====== ~   === =
USES
Disbursements:
Long-term loans                 4,846      6,982     9,660    11,583    13,885
Working capital loans               43         -          -         -          -
Equity investments              1,265      1,409      1,552     1,710      1,883
Prepayment Eurodollar
borrowings      /             1,136      1,136          -         -          -
Repayments:
Central Bank overdrafts              -         -        166       166        166
Plan and Budget
Organization borrowings            -         -          -       875      1,750
Foreign borrowings                   -         -        213       303        740
Employees profit sharing                47        54         57        62         72
Increase (decrease) in cash            297       109         63        194      (172
Total uses                    7,634      9,690    11,711    14,893    18,324
1/ IBRD I (US$ 25 -million) and II (US$ 40 million) and existing,
or about to be signed, tied lines of credit (Eximbank, Coface, ECGD).
2 Chemical Bank and Deutsche Bank.
EMENA/IC & DFC
April 1974






ANNEX 15
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT BANK
OF IRAN
Projected Disbursement Schedule
(in million dollars)
1974   September     December           0.3       0.4
1975   January       March              0,5
April         June               0.6
July          September          1.9
October       December           4.5       7.5
1976   January       March              4.1
April         June               4.0
July          September          2.8
October       December           1.9      12.8
1977   January       March              1.5
April         June               1.5
July          September          0.8
October       December           0.3       4.1
1978   January       March              0.2       0.2
25.0
&MENA/IC & DFC
April 1974



