Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
P7330
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE
FOR A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
August 22, 1978
FILE COPY
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY UNIT                     CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$    1                 =         CFAF    245  1/
CFAF   1,000             =        US$      4.08
CFAF   1,000,000         =        US$      4,082
ABBREVIATIONS
ACCF                  Agence Centrafricaine des Communications Fluviales
AFDEV                 African Development Fund
ATC                   Agence Transcongolaise des Communications
BEAC                  Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
CAE                   Central African Empire
CFCO                  Chemin de Fer Congo - Ocean
DGPW                  Directorate General of Public Works
FAC                   Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FED                   Fonds Europeen de Developpement
FRG                   Federal Republic of Germany
KFAED                 Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
ONCPA                 Office National Centrafricain des Produits Agricoles
RMWA                  Regional Mission in Western Africa
UDEAC                 Union Douaniere des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
1   Floating exchange rate.  CFAF is tied to the French Franc (CFAF 50 = FF 1).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page 1 of 2 pages
CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Central African Empire
Amount:        US$15.5 million
Terms:         Standard
Project
Description:  The project would assist the Government in its efforts to
improve landlocked C.A.E.'s access to the Ocean through the
reconstruction of the Bangui-Bossembele section (145 km)
of the road to Cameroon. The proposed project consists of
the reconstruction of the Bangui-Bossembele road to two-lane
bituminous sealed standard including the construction of a
two-lane bridge over the M'Bali River.
The benefits for C.A.E. would mainly consist of savings in
vehicle operating costs, maintenance costs and distance sav-
ings. The project would also stimulate agricultural devel-
opment in some populated areas by providing improved access
to markets and reduced costs of supplying inputs. On the
external side, the project is not only an important route for
import/export traffic via Cameroon, but also a part of the
Trans-African highway and of the Trans-Equatorial route serving
land-locked Chad. The project therefore contributes also to
the economic development of the Central African Region.
Despite the Government commitment, unavailability of local
counterpart funds has been identified as a potential risk.
However, the project is linked to the rehabilitation of the
country's maintenance capacity through a program financed by
FED, FAC and the FRG.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page 2 of 2 pages
Estimated Costs: 1/
US$ '000                 Foreign
as %
Foreign     Local     Total        of Total
A.    Reconstruction of
Bangui-Bossembele road             17,540      2,516    20,056           87
B.    Supervision of construc-
tion works                            340        160       500           68
C.    Consulting engineering
services                              140         30       170           82
D.    Contingencies
(i)  Physical (10%)                 1,755        252     2,007           87
(ii)  Prices                         2,589        359     2,948           87
Subtotal D                          4,344        611     4,955           87
TOTAL                        22,364      3,317    25,681            87
ROUNDED                      22,400      3,300    25,700            87
Financing Plan:
…------US$ '000       …
Foreign     Local     Total
IDA                                13,700      1,800    15,500
Kuwait Fund                         3,600          -     3,600
African Development Fund            5,100        500     5,600
Government of CAE                     -        I,000     1,000
Total                        22,400      3,300    25,700
Estimated Disbursements:
…--------US$ 000          …
Fiscal Year:                        1979      1980     1981      1982
Annual                              4,500     5,000    4,500     1,500
Cumulative                          4,500     9,500   14,000    15,500
Economic Rate of Return:        12%.
Appraisal Report:     Report No. 1246-CA dated August 21, 1978.
1/   Net of taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE
FOR A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Central African Empire (C.A.E) for the equivalent of US$15.5
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a third highway project.
The African Development Fund (AFDEV) and the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development (KFAED) would both contribute to the financing of the project
with respectively a credit of US$5.6 million equivalent and a loan of US$3.6
million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report "The Economy of the Central African
Republic" was distributed to the Board on May 22, 1970. Since then we have
monitored the economy with several short missions and with the help of the
IMF. An IMF mission with Bank participation visited the country in October
1976; a short Trust Fund mission took place in November 1977. The findings
of these missions are incorporated in this report.
Background
3.        The Central African Empire has an area of 620,000 square kilometers.
This landlocked country has a small population of 1.8 million, most of which
is concentrated in the Western and Southern regions. About 25 percent of
the inhabitants live in urban areas. The 1976 per capita GNP was estimated
at about US$255 1/. The C.A.E. has been listed as one of the "Most Seriously
Affected" countries by the United Nations.
4.        The economy of the C.A.E. consists essentially of agriculture and
forestry, accounting for about 36 percent of GDP and providing a livelihood
for 80 percent of the population. Commerce, mining and manufacturing, and
general Government follow in order of importance. Diamonds, cotton, coffee
and timber earn 90 percent of C.A.E.'s export revenues of which the latter
two commodities account for more than half. The C.A.E. relies on river navi-
gation linked to the Chemin de Fer Congo-Ocean (CFCO) and Pointe Noire port
systems in the Congo as its main access to the sea. The Agence Centrafricaine
des Communications Fluviales (ACCF) shares river transport with the ATC to
and from C.A.E. but has been increasingly unable to handle the traffic on
schedule, particularly wood products which account for about 40 percent of
total transported tonnage.
5.        The Central African Empire belongs to the Franc area, shares a
central bank (BEAC) with Cameroon, Chad, the Congo and Gabon and is a member
of a customs and economic union (UDEAC) of which all the BEAC countries,
1/   Straight line estimation.



-2-
except Chad, are members. A fixed rate of 50 CFAF to the French franc is
maintained, and France guarantees unlimited conversion of the CFA franc into
the French franc.
Economic Performance through 1977-78
6.        Between 1965 and 1970, the country's economy grew in real terms at
an average rate of about 4 percent per annum. The economy slowed down between
1970 and 1975, with the exception of the forestry sector which continued to
expand. Other productive activities such as food and cash crops, manufactur-
ing and services recorded no real growth; mining production declined.
7.        Food crop production has traditionally tended to expand in line
with the rural population, but since 1970, urban demand for food has exceeded
the capacity of the Government's agricultural produce marketing agency,
the ONCPA, to ensure the availability at reasonable prices of foodstuff in
urban centers. Adverse weather conditions in 1973, 1974, and 1977 aggravated
the situation and the overall result has been increased food prices and
imports of basic foodstuff. Production of cash crops under the Government
managed productivity programs stagnated until 1975 generally as a result of
inadequate price incentives, input supply difficulties, financial problems,
and unfavorable weather. Coffee production was particularly affected by
man-power shortages, as coffee planters migrated to diamond fields when
they were opened up to artisan exploitation in the mid-1960's, while cotton
suffered from the Government's policy of extending productivity schemes to
marginal areas of low population densities. In 1976, coffee production
improved in response to increased producer prices and buoyant international
demand; lower international prices and scarcity of inputs adversely affected
output in 1977. Sales from existing stocks added to export earnings and the
rehabilitation of smallholder coffee plantations is being accelerated with
international assistance following the return of some planters from diamond
fields. Improved producer prices, marketing practices, and the initiation
of new productivity programs aimed at intensifying production in favorable
areas are helping to arrest the decline in cotton production and 1977-78
output is expected to rise by over 20 percent from the low level recorded in
1976-77 which was due to poor rainfall and lack of fertilizers and insecticides.
Manufacturing and services stagnated up to 1976 due to a variety of factors
including the inadequate performance of agriculture, uneven fiscal and eco-
nomic management, a series of nationalizations in 1974, the increase in
Government arrears to local suppliers, and the recession of 1974 and 1975.
Manufacturing started to improve thereafter, following efforts in 1975 and
1976 by the Government to arrest the growth in arrears, the revival of
forestry processing resulting from improved demand in industrial countries
and the expansion in consumer purchasing power which resulted from higher
export prices and volumes and some easing of credit to the private sector.
8.        In the mid-1960's, the Government's decision to open up alluvial
diamond fields to artisan diggers triggered a decline in this important export
industry, as small scale operators overran the concessions of private firms.
Initially, official artisan production increased, but clandestine trading was
subsequently induced by the unsuccessful efforts of the Government's diamond



- 3 -
marketing monopoly 1/ to control trading and to establish competitive prices.
The monopoly was then revoked, too late to modify trading practices, or to
prevent the depletion of the more easily exploitable deposits. Diamond firms
are now increasing their production in fields which require capital intensive
production techniques, and production is estimated to have increased in 1977
for the first time since the 1960's. In addition to diamond mining, other
prospects include the initiation of uranium production in the mid-1980's at
Bakouma by a new mining consortium 2/. The financial viability of the project
is hampered, however, by its remote location in Eastern C.A.E. and poor trans-
port facilities for the important quantities of bulky inputs required to be
imported in order to process uranium concentrates. Traces of other minerals
(copper, platinum, nickel, cobalt) have been found and their exploration by
a UNDP program is planned for the late 1970's.
9.        Forestry has been the only dynamic economic activity in recent
years, log production having increased by 42 percent from 1970 to 1973 and
processed timber by more than 50 percent. The value of timber exports tripled
during this period and is now the most important export item. While the 1973
drought lowered the water level of the river, hampering timber transport, the
industry suffered in 1974 and 1975 because of reduced demand in industrial
countries. Financial losses were incurred in 1974 when wood products which
were already in transit had to be sold at a loss, and in 1975, output was
reduced. Forestry activity started to recover in 1976 and 1977, and produc-
tion capacity increased with the initiation of logging and sawmill operations
by two new Romanian firms in the Upper Sangha area. However, the recovery
of the forestry sector has been hindered by persistent transport problems due
to poor flood conditions on the Sangha and Oubangui rivers and to management
problems within the Government owned river transport monopoly, the Agence
Centrafricaine des Communications Fluviales.
Outcome of the 1971-1975 Plan
10.       Outlays under the 1971-1975 plan stood at 38.7 billion CFAF (about
US$158 million) out of an originally planned 51.3 billion, an overall ful-
fillment rate of about 76 percent including cost overruns. Investments were
concentrated mostly in directly productive activities (47 percent) while
economic and social infrastructure accounted for 24 and 27 percent respec-
tively of total expenditures. Budgetary difficulties limited counterpart
funding of foreign aid projects resulting in the reduction in the scope of
some projects and the abandonment of others, while a lower level of foreign
aid, as compared to initial funding objectives, led the Government to resort
to foreign commercial loans.
1/   Office National du Diamant.
2/   Uranium Centrafricain with participations of C.A.E. (1/3), Alusuisse
(1/3), Compagnie Francaise des Mines d'Uranium (1/6) and the Commissariat
de l'Energie Atomique (1/6).



-4-
Public Finance
11.       During the 1971-75 period, overall expenditures have consistently
exceeded revenues by at least 13 percent. Total expenditures grew by 10 per-
cent while revenues increased by 7 percent, resulting in steadily increasing
budgetary deficits. In 1976, the situation was reversed, with expenditures
falling by 4 percent while revenues rose at the same rate. However, the
increase in budgetary expenditures could not be stemmed in 1977 and Govern-
ment outlays are estimated to have increased by 26 percent while revenues
lagged behind, increasing only at 11 percent.
12.       The budgetary deficits were partly financed by foreign assistance,
which accounted for 35 percent of deficit financing during the 1970-1974
period. Most of the deficit was financed, however, by arrears of payments
to local and foreign suppliers and creditors. In 1974, outstanding arrears
had reached about 50 percent of 1974 revenues. The rate of increase of
arrears decelerated in 1975 due to important foreign support aimed at reduc-
ing the level of arrears and, in 1976, to the lower overall expenditure
levels. Arrears rose again in 1977, reaching an estimated 80 percent of
1977 revenues. The targets agreed with IMF for improvements in budgetary
performance in 1978 and reducing arrears will apparently not be met.
13.       Measures to improve the public finance position have concentrated
mostly on increasing revenues through the collection of tax arrears and higher
tax rates on companies, individuals, exports and imports. However, the bulk
of budgetary revenues depend on import duties which generally stagnated since
1975. The growth of expenditures stems mainly from increases in civil service
employment which has not yet been curbed. Several measures have been taken to
improve financial administration, including a reorganization of the Treasury
in 1975 with the help of a team of experts from the French Finance Ministry,
and taxation and financial data collection studies conducted by the IMF. Most
recently, in an effort to improve financial accountability, a new auditing
directorate was established with wide powers to investigate financial report-
ing by ministeries and parastatal organizations. The IMF is continuing to
work for budgetary reform and a reduction in arrears through its Trust Fund
agreements of which the next one is to be negotiated this fall.
Balance of Payments
14.       Generally, imports of both goods and services have exceeded exports
since the mid-1960's resulting in persistent current accounts deficits. High
transport and distribution costs, up to 40 percent of the c.i.f. value of
imports, have been the major factor in the deficits on the current account.
As net public and private receipts of capital from abroad were insufficient to
cover the current deficit, balance of payments deficits prevailed between 1970
and 1975, financed largely through recourse to the short-term facilities of
the BEAC, increases in liabilities to the French Postal system and drawings on
the gold tranche in 1974 and the oil facilities in 1974 and 1975. In 1974,
the current deficit doubled in value due, in large part, to the increase in
oil prices. The current account deficit increased by a further 50 percent in



- 5 -
1975 due to the stagnation of exports and the effect of inflation on imports.
The current account deficit was then reduced by one half in 1976 due to
favorable export prices and the leveling off of imports. The current account
deficit in 1977 is estimated to be about the same as in 1976 due to high
exports resulting from timely sales of cotton and coffee early in the year,
offset by the rising value of imports. A large current account deficit is
expected in 1978 due to lower export prices and stable imports.
15.       Foreign assistance has been substantial in past years and increased
rapidly from US$10 million in 1971 to between US$40 and 50 million in 1975 and
1976. In 1975 positive net foreign assets were recorded for the first time
since 1969, and an overall surplus on the balance of payments was finally
achieved in 1976. Gross foreign reserves are estimated to have risen from
US$3.8 million at the end of 1975 to US$18.8 million at the end of 1976, and
to US$26 million at the end of 1977.
External Debt
16.       At the end of 1976 debt outstanding (including undisbursed) amounted
to about US$111 million, of which about 75 percent has been disbursed. The
corresponding debt service ratio is 13 percent; however, repayment of arrears
on external debt service is not included in this ratio. In 1973, the authori-
ties set up a "Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement" to manage the external debt
and debt service payments. In 1974 and 1975, with the help of French bud-
getary grants, the increase in arrears of payments was stemmed. Bilateral
talks with some creditor countries are underway to restructure general payment
schedules. The Government is also actively negotiating settlements for some
outstanding nationalizations. Responding to a Government request, the Bank
recently conducted a preliminary review of the external debt situation, to
be followed, later, by a more extensive survey.
Outlook and Prospects
17.       A new investment program, established at CFAF 143 billion for the
1976-1980 period, comprises the sum of all identified priority operations.
Top priority is accorded to improving transport infrastructure, particularly
to overcome constraints which limit C.A.E.'s access to the sea. Since the
Government recognizes that execution of this program will be determined by
the availability of external financing, annual reassessments are planned to
realign it to available resources. Public investment is running at an annual
rate of about CFAF 6 billion virtually all from external donors in view of
the lack of budgetary savings. The Government is also initiating studies
needed to establish a five-year development plan for the 1980-1985 period.
18.       The revival and future growth of the economy of the C.A.E. will be
determined by four key factors:



- 6 -
(a) improvements in economic and fiscal management; the
Government has recently been attentive to IMF proposals
to improve budgetary procedures and is now improving
controls over spending in Government and state enter-
prises through streamlining of auditing procedures. It
is also attempting to settle disputes concerning past
nationalizations and to accelerate repayments of arrears
to local and foreign suppliers thereby promoting better
business confidence. It has demonstrated greater realism
in pricing policies with important rises for cotton and
coffee. Government revenues resumed growth in 1977 when
economic conditions improved. Notwithstanding the higher
revenues, estimates of the outcome for 1977 are disappoint-
ing. Despite its agreement to IMF suggested stabilization
measures, Government spending in 1978 would appear to have
largely exceeded targets agreed with IMF. A new effort at
stabilization will be undertaken this fall in conjunction
with an IMF Trust Fund drawing;
(b) the rate at which the forestry sector will respond to strength-
ened international demand for timber. Available indicators
point to a significant increase of production and exports by
forestry concerns during 1976 and 1977;
(c) removal of transport constraints, comprising in particular
improvements underway on the "Chemin de Fer Congo-Ocean",
including the realignment project (Ln. 1228-COB), which is
financed by a number of aid agencies including the Bank;
the improvement of the Bangui-Bossembele-Bouar-Cameroon
border link in the West, and of river navigation to which
the French Government, the Federal Republic of Germany and
the Fonds Europeen de Developpement (FED) are attentive
(see para. 29); and
(d) the pace of revitalization of the agricultural sector; short
term gains have occurred due to recent increases in producer
prices. The medium term outlook points to increases in cotton,
coffee and food crops as a result of continued assistance to
these sectors by the donor community. The Government's long
term strategy of eliminating migrant agriculture has also been
tested by a UNDP pilot project and is now being followed up
through two integrated rural productivity schemes financed
by the African Development Bank and the Federal Republic of
Germany.
19.       The country's per capita income remains low and with an improved
economic performance the Government should be able to attract a higher level
of development assistance. In support of the efforts currently made with
the assistance of the IMF and until the C.A.E. Government is able to generate



-7-
sufficient internal savings, external donors will be justified in continuing
to extend financial assistance on highly concessional terms and to finance
a high proportion of total costs including local costs of high priority proj-
ects.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN C.A.E.
20.       The C.A.E. joined the Bank in July 1963 and the Association in
August 1963. The Bank Group's first operation in C.A.E. was approved in 1969
when the first highway project for the construction of the Bangui-M'Baiki road
was financed with an IDA credit. A second IDA credit was provided in 1970 for
a highway maintenance project, and a third in 1972 for an education project.
Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits as of June 30, 1978, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.       Both credits for the highway sector have been completed.    The
country's difficult financial problem adversely affected the implementation
of the Highway Maintenance Project. Although the project was scaled down
three times, the Government still had difficulties in providing counterpart
funds. As a result only 10 to 20 percent of planned maintenance program
was ultimately achieved. Nevertheless, the consultants were able to intro-
duce to the DGPW a sound organizational structure as well as modern inventory
and accounting procedures and to successfully complete the preinvestment
studies of the proposed Third Highway Project (see para. 4 of the Project
Performance Audit Report No. 1819 dated December 13, 1977, prepared by the
Operations Evaluation Department - OED Report). The First Highway Project
(construction of the Bangui-M'Baiki Road) was implemented successfully. The
results achieved were even in some instances better than expected; unit prices
lower than anticipated resulted in a 15 percent cost underrun. The US$652,000
IDA share of the US$850,000 project surplus was transferred to the Highway
Maintenance Project for the purchase of spare parts (see para. 3 of the above
mentioned OED Report). The results of our experience with past lending in
this sector and the influence of this experience on the design of the pro-
posed project are presented on paras. 41 to 44. Implementation of the edu-
cation project is about 2-1/2 years behind schedule, due to inefficiency in
project administration, initial delays in meeting conditions of effectiveness
and appointing consultants, the necessity of rebidding for construction work,
and slow evaluation of bids and award of contracts, which are now in the pro-
cess of completion. Because of severe cost overruns and Government financial
difficulties, the scope of the project had to be reduced and the Association
agreed to increase its disbursement percentage to 100 percent of net of tax
costs of project assuming that we would return to lower percentage as soon as
Government finds additional external financing. On Government's request, the
OPEC Special Fund has authorized C.A.E to utilize part of its loan to C.A.E
to finance the cost overrun. As a result, the IDA disbursement percentage is
being reduced to 85 percent of project costs net of taxes. The project has
now acquired a good momentum. Since the arrival of a UNESCO specialist,
the administration of the project has improved considerably and the project
is progressing satisfactorily.



-8-
22.       An economic mission visited Bangui in September 1973 to explore
means of helping the Government to improve the fiscal situation. Although
the mission's recommendations were communicated to the Government, a compre-
hensive dialogue on the country's economic and financial problems did n ot
materialize. Furthermore, difficulties in carrying out ongoing projects
produced additional strains in our relations with the C.A.E. In 1974, ser-
vice commissions due on payments to the Association were in arrears.
23.       The situation improved considerably from April 1975 when the Govern-
ment cleared its arrears of payments and the Government, in cooperation with
the IMF, initiated improvements in the management of public finances. This was
followed, in November'1975, by RMWA agricultural and transport missions to
the C.A.E. to identify projects for Bank Group financing. Our dialogue with
C.A.E. has gradually improved, setting the stage for future lending activities.
24.       To reinforce improvements in relations and verify the Government's
increasing awareness of its economic and fiscal problems, a small economic
mission visited C.A.E. in October 1976 coinciding with an IMF Article XIV
Consultation mission. The mission was able to pursue the Bank's dialogue
with the Government, pertaining mainly to debt reporting and management, and
to confirm initiatives for the improvement of development planning and fiscal
management. In view of the country's financial performance, allocation of
IDA resources has been maintained at a comparatively low level and our lending
program has been limited only to some high priority projects.
25.       The proposed Third Highway Project, appraised in March 1976, would
be our first lending operation in C.A.E. since May 1972. It provides us
with an opportunity to further promote improvements in the Government's
development policies. As a result of this involvement in the vital trans-
port sector, we have already obtained Government's commitment to carry out
a comprehensive road maintenance program and have coordinated the efforts
of other donors responsible for financing and carrying out the program.
The Government's commitment to contribute to the program (para. 47) evidenced
a growing recognition of the need to concentrate scarce resources on priority
projects. Since measures have been taken with other co-donors to ensure the
success of the project and assuming that present attempts at improving Gov-
ernment development policies are pursued, our experience in the C.A.E. could
justify that we consider projects in other important sectors, particularly in
rural development. In this respect, an RMWA mission visited C.A.E. in June
1977 to complete the preparation of a livestock project aimed at increasing
beef production and at benefiting the neediest segment of the population, the
Bororo herdsmen. This Project was appraised in February/March 1978 and could
be presented to the Board during this fiscal year.
26.       From 1971 to 1975, public investments amounted to about US$160 mil-
lion of which domestic resources accounted for 36 percent. The remainder was
supplied by official bilateral and multilateral assistance (European Develop-
ment Fund - 25 percent, United Nations - 11 percent, Yugoslavia - 10 percent),
31 percent of which was disbursed as a result of loan commitments. Of dis-
bursed loans, IDA's share amounted in 1971-75 to 29 percent. Outstanding and



disbursed IDA credits presently account for 9 percent of the total
debt and one percent of the debt service burden. This percentage will
most likely remain unchanged in the next five years.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Transport System
27.       Most of the country lies on a high rolling plateau which presents
no particular geographic obstacles to transport. However, because it is land-
locked, the C.A.E. is faced with high transport costs to reach remote trade
outlets. The country's increasing reliance on imports and exports can be
expected to increase the sensitivity of its landlocked economy to changes in
the efficiency and cost of transport services within the country and on its
two main access routes to the sea. Roads are of prime importance in the
domestic transport system. The main internal transport axis consists of about
1,300 km of highway from the Cameroon border through Bossembele, Bangui and
Sibut to the Zaire border, which connects the country from east to west and of
which the proposed project is an important part. Major trunk roads radiate
from Bangui (see Map 12229R).
External Transport Links
28.       The country's primary access to the sea is via the Trans-Equatorial
route running from N'Djamena (Chad) south to the port of Pointe Noire (Congo).
This river/rail route from Bangui to Pointe Noire has always been the most
important route to the sea but traffic on the shorter Bangui-N'Gaoudal-Douala
(Cameroon) road/rail route is growing. In 1958, the C.A.E., Chad, Congo and
Gabon created a multinational agency to supervise and maintain the route. In
1969, these countries agreed that the agency's functions should be taken over
by a Congolese agency, the Agence Transcongolaise des Communications (ATC),
which still administers the external trade, transported by river barges on the
Oubangui and Congo rivers between Bangui and Brazzaville (1,300 km) and by
rail between Brazzaville and Pointe Noire (510 km). The main difficulties
encountered in the Bangui-Pointe Noire link have been: i) the seasonal nature
of navigation (8 months per year) and the disruption in seasonal water flows
due to the recent drought; ii) CFCO railway has been a bottleneck for transit
traffic to and from C.A.E. The ATC has been trying to improve various compo-
nents of its system and the Bank Group has already contributed US$44.9 million
(Cr. 297-COB in 1972 and 1973, and Ln. 1228-COB in 1976) to assist with these
improvements.
29.       The Bangui-N'Gaoundal-Douala route consists of an all weather road
from Bangui to N'Gaoundal (about 850 km) and of the railway to the port of
Douala (830 km) in Cameroon and is shorter by about 130 km than the Bangui-
Pointe Noire route. Traffic on this route has been increasing in recent
years - one inducement being the significant savings on maritime freight in
Douala compared with Pointe Noire.



- 10 -
30.       The Cameroon route is usable almost all year round, but the road
section in C.A.E. (595 km), together with a few bridges along the road, need
improvement or reconstruction. The draft Five-Year Plan attributes the highest
priority to carrying out these improvements by 1980/81. In Cameroon, the
major problem in using the route via N'Gaoundal is the congestion in the port
of Douala and in the Douala-Yaounde corridor. However, these problems should
be alleviated in future since a Bank loan and an IDA credit, for a total of
US$25.0 million, were provided, in conjunction with other donors, in August
1976 to extend and reorganize the port of Douala. Furthermore, the Bank has
financed studies for the construction of a new marshalling yard at the railway
terminal in Douala and to help determine an economically optimal investment
strategy for the Douala-Yaounde corridor. These studies are scheduled to be
completed in the near future and may lead to further Bank projects for this
corridor.
River Transport
31.       Rivers are important in the transport of exports and imports.    The
most widely used are the Oubangui, Lobaye and Sangha rivers, which have a
length of about 2,000 km. The Agence Centrafricaine des Communications
Fluviales (ACCF), a state enterprise with financial and administrative auton-
omy under the authority of the Ministry of Transport, is responsible for
freight and passenger transport on C.A.E.'s waterways and, in conjunction
with the Agence Transcongolaise, on the route to Brazzaville. In 1975, total
tonnage transported by ACCF was about 245,000 tons. Due to poor management
or organization, lack of qualified staff, and declining traffic, which is
partly caused by the economic situation in the C.A.E., the ACCF acquired by
1976 an accumulated debt of about CFAF 1.5 billion, of which over CFAF 700
million was owed to the Agence Transcongolaise. The ports, which are also
managed by ACCF, operate inefficiently, and facilities are poorly maintained.
By far the largest port is Bangui, which has a capacity of about 300,000 tons
per annum, but traffic in this port declined annually to a level of 166,000
tons in 1975. ACCF handles about 85 percent of total Bangui port traffic. A
recent study of the ACCF, financed by the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC)
of France, calls for a general reorganization of ACCF, improvement in its
management, an increase in technical assistance, and specifically recommends
creation of a separate management for the port of Bangui which would in-
troduce greater efficiencies and better utilization of existing facilities.
Efforts were made to increase ACCF operational capacity. Fonds Europeen de
Developpement (FED), French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) and bilateral
aid from the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) financed a project under which
a tugboat and four tankers were purchased. The project was completed in 1976.
At negotiations assurances were obtained that Government would establish a
program of action to rehabilitate river transport and ACCF (Section 4.05 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). The program is expected to concen-
trate on improvement in management, with possibility of an additional tech-
nical assistance and in improvement in maintenance of ACCF and port facilities
including its better utilization.
Air Transport
32.       The international airport at Bangui handles about 95 percent of the
country's total air traffic, which is at a low level and stagnating. In 1973



- 11 -
the airport had a traffic volume of 6,800 tons and 24,000 passengers. The
remaining twelve secondary airfields are scattered around the country and lack
reliable navigation facilities.
Road Transport
33.       The Directorate General of Public Works (DGPW) is responsible for
the entire network of about 22,000 km of roads, of which only 300 km are
paved. Nearly 11,000 km of primary and secondary networks consist of gravel
or earth roads and 11,000 km are unclassified feeder roads and tracks con-
necting areas of agricultural activity. The total tonnage now transported
by road in the C.A.E. is estimated at about 350,000 tons per annum. Trans-
port demand is seasonal because of the predominance of agriculture. Traffic
density patterns follow the location of economic activity in the south and
southwest. Collection of traffic data is the responsibility of the DGPW but
traffic counts have so far been carried out only for selected roads whose
reconstruction is planned by the Government in the Five-Year Plan. Although
the existing truck fleet is currently more than adequate to meet require-
ments, the trend towards increasing use of the Cameroon route will require
some change in the fleet's structure and a further increase in capacity of
trailers.
34.       Over 30 percent of total road freight traffic (other than cotton
and timber) is handled by the Office National d'Affretement, a state-owned
company which is under the Ministry of Transport and was created in 1969.
Some 50 private transporters handle the remaining goods traffic and have
formed an organization to represent them in their dealings with Government
organizations. The trucking industry appears to function reasonably well.
The present tariffs, which were established by the Presidency in 1974, are
similar to tariff ranges in other African countries (CFAF 14-24 per ton/km).
Administration of Roads
35.       The DGPW consists of the following:
(a) the Directorate of Planning and Construction which is
staffed exclusively with French technical experts;
(b) the Directorate of Road and River Maintenance which
is staffed by local technical personnel and requires
strengthening; and
(c) the Directorate of Administrative and Financial Services
which is also responsible for training and is staffed by
local personnel, except in the FED-financed training
school. In addition, the Directorate has a laboratory
with technical competence to perform soil and materials
tests.
36.       Most of the managerial and technical competence depends on the FAC
technical assistance program, and its continuation, particularly for the
Directorate of Planning and Construction, is crucial to the DGPW's overall



- 12 -
operation. French authorities have indicated that this assistance will
continue. A FED-financed training school was established in Bangui in 1974
with a projected output of about 40 civil works inspectors, foremen and
mechanics in each two-year cycle. The Government's objective is to replace
foreign personnel by nationals. In the DGPW positive steps have been taken to
provide civil engineering training to nationals at different levels.   About 30
Central Africans are studying engineering in Europe and Canada, and a similar
number of higher grade technicians are receiving advanced training in Europe,
Ivory Coast and Senegal, while about 80 students are being trained in Chad and
Mali in lower grade technical skills.
Engineering and Construction
37.       The Directorate of Planning and Construction prepares designs for
minor road improvements works and simple bridge structures, while designs for
major projects are done by foreign consultants. At present, C.A.E has not
established its own set of highway design standards and French practices and
design techniques are still widely used. The domestic construction industry
is small and at an early stage of development. In building construction,
there are several local contractors who can compete with foreign firms and
two or three local contracting firms have experience in construction of minor
bridges. All major road construction work to date has been done by foreign
contractors since there are no local contractors capable of undertaking a
sizeable road contract.
Highway Maintenance
38.       Highway maintenance is a chronic problem in C.A.E.   Most roads
have developed from tracks and have sub-standard formation and inadequate
drainage, making maintenance difficult. Existing equipment, most of which
is either absolete or non operational because of the lack of spare parts, is
insufficient for the work and the lack of trained supervisors, operators and
mechanics, is clearly evident in the organization and quality of maintenance
works.
39.       Expenditures for routine maintenance and administration are provided
from the national budget. A limited amount of heavy maintenance is also car-
ried out by FAC. The amounts allocated to the Ministry of Public Works for
highway maintenance represent about 2.5 percent of Government's total current
expenditures. This share is comparable to that in most of the countries in
the West African Region for road maintenance, but the amounts actually made
available (always less than budgeted) have been insufficient for the country's
needs. Road users contribute to the national budget through taxes levied on
fuel, taxes and duties on imported vehicles and spare parts, taxes for vehicle
registration, licensing and inspection and road tolls. All revenues go into
the national budget, from which allocations are made to the Road Fund for
highway maintenance and administration. Total revenues from all road user
sources over the period 1973-1975 amounted to about CFAF 3.6 billion (US$14.7
million equivalent). Of this amount only about CFAF 0.9 billion (US$3.7 mil-
lion) were spent on the highway sector.



- 13 -
40.       Maintenance of the primary and secondary highways is handled by the
Directorate of Road and River Maintenance and its field organization, which
consists of two regional divisions and eight subdivisions, responsible for
routine maintenance operations, which are carried out by field teams of
"cantonniers" using existing equipment. In addition, two heavy equipment
units carry out periodic maintenance and rehabilitation works. The first unit
located in Bangassou in the eastern district, uses equipment provided under
the IDA Second Highway Project, (Cr. 199-CA), and is experiencing a continuous
shortage of recurrent funds for fuel and lubricants, and a lack of spare parts
and of trained personnel. The second heavy equipment unit was established in
1975 by FAC to assist the DGPW in carrying out road rehabilitation works and
the regraveling in the forestry region of Berberati in the western district.
This unit has equipment worth US$1.5 million, is fully financed (including
operation and labor costs) by FAC, and is supervised by FAC technicians.
IDA Support for the Highways
41.       Our discussions in this section are based on the conclusions of
(i) the Project Completion Report prepared by the Bank's Western Africa
Regional Office and dated July 23, 1976 and (ii) the Project Performance
Audit Report prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department and distributed
to the Board on December 13, 1977.
42.       Since 1969, two IDA credits totalling US$8.5 million have been
provided to C.A.E. to assist the development of the highway sector. Credit
146-CA of April 1969 provided US$4.2 million under the First Highway Project
for the reconstruction of the Bangui-M'Baiki road (102 km) and purchases
of equipment to maintain the road. Credit 199-CA of June 1970 made available
US$4.3 million under the Highway Maintenance Project to finance a four year
maintenance program to ensure that the condition of primary and secondary
roads would not hinder further economic development. Both Projects have been
completed in 1975 and 1976 respectively.
43.       The First Highway Project was implemented successfully and in line
with the scope envisaged at appraisal. The economic rate of return as rees-
timated in the Project Completion Report was the same as the return estimated
at appraisal, 14 percent. However, vehicle operating cost savings due to the
construction of this road may be reduced in the future as a result of con-
tinued neglect of maintenance operations, such as regravelling of shoulders.
Because shoulders have been allowed to wear away, water collection along the
road edge during the rainy season can lead to weakening of the pavement. In
addition pavement surface or subgrade has failed in some sections. To return
the road to good condition, maintenance has to be increased substantially.
Delay of more than two or three years may lead to the need for reconstruc-
tion of large sections as a result of further failures and to increased
user costs, either of which could reduce the economic rate of return to less
than 10 percent. However, the proposed maintenance program being financed in
conjunction with this project includes measures to restore maintenance oper-
ations on the Bangui-M'Baiki road.



- 14 -
44.       The implementation of the Highway Maintenance Project was unsatis-
factory. Only 10 to 20 percent of the planned maintenance program and a
limited amount of training were accomplished. This unsatisfactory outcome
was primarily the result of the unavailability of sufficient local funds for
recurrent maintenance expenditures. Of the funds provided, some were also
diverted to finance the operation of a regravelling unit for the improvement
of streets in Bangui. Because of the shortage of local funds, the project was
scaled down three times. Because the planned maintenance improvements were
not implemented, the reestimated economic rate of return is negative compared
with the appraisal estimate of 28 percent.
45.       In view of these unsatisfactory results due mainly to the inadequate
provisions for road maintenance, the Association advised the Government in
May 1976 that the financing of this proposed project would be contingent
upon the Government making arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, for
the establishment of a minimum road maintenance program supported by foreign
financial and technical assistance. To satisfy this prerequisite, the Govern-
ment convened a meeting in Bangui in April 1977, where potential donors,
mainly FED, FAC and FRG as well as the Bank, were invited. At the meeting,
a four year highway maintenance program was agreed between the donors and
the Government.
46.       External donors agreed to give assistance to the Government's main-
tenance efforts by providing and operating independently: (a) one rehabil-
itation and one light equipment unit (financed by FAC and FRG); (b) one
heavy unit (provided by FED); and (c) one heavy unit eventually provided by
FAC in 1979, using the equipment actually existing at Berberati. The donors
also agreed to provide funds to finance related operating costs of these units
for a period of two years. These units will carry out periodic maintenance,
i.e. regravelling and road reshaping works, on the Bossembele-Garoua-Boulai
section of the most important route to Cameroon and other selected high
priority primary roads. FED contribution includes also continuation of the
training school and the financing of the services of technical experts namely
an expatriate coordinator (to be placed in the DGPW) for the overall mainte-
nance program and technical experts for rehabilitation of Government's exist-
ing equipment. The overall cost of foreign aid would amount to CFAF 1.7
billion (US$6.9 million). The primary road network covered would total 640
km. Although this network is less than we initially proposed, this program
appears to be satisfactory. This foreign-assisted maintenance program will
be managed by FED. Their experts will work closely with local personnel both
at managerial level and in the field. The financial agreements with both
FED and FAC have already been signed and the expatriate coordinator has been
appointed and is expected to arrive in C.A.E. in October 1978. The signature
of the only outstanding financing agreement, that with FRG, is a condition
of effectiveness of the IDA Credit (Section 6.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
47.       On its part the Government has agreed to launch maintenance opera-
tions in parallel with the program of foreign donors. This would mobilize
the Government's underutilized maintenance organization to execute routine
maintenance operations on the priority road network (including the IDA-
financed Bangui-M'Baiki road) using its field staff of "cantonniers" and



- 15 -
existing equipment. To this effect, the Government allocated CFAF 500 million
(US$2.0 million) in 1978 and will allocate at least the same amount annually
for the following three years to a special Road Fund account opened in a local
bank. This account is managed by the Ministry of Public Works and the funds
are used exclusively for maintenance operations, namely wages of "cantonniers,"
fuel and lubricants, spare parts, and materials. The Government intends to
rehabilitate some existing maintenance equipment and to use funds from the
1978 budget to purchase spare parts. Also, the Government signed a contract
with Louis Berger (USA) to execute a highway maintenance study which started
in 1977; the final report should be available in late 1978.
Investment Policies in the Transport Sector
48.       The Ministry of Transport is formally responsible for the country's
transport policy and coordination, but lacks qualified staff particularly for
policy-making and investment planning. Coordination of the various tranport
modes is not a problem in C.A.E. since road transport is the dominant mode and
does not compete with river transport. From 1972-1974, under UNDP technical
assistance, a transport economist was provided and, at the Government's
request, UNDP is presently financing a transport planning specialist for the
period 1977-1978. Development plans in the transport sector are initiated
by the Ministry of Transport and those specifically for roads by the Ministry
of Public Works and Urban Affairs in the form of investment proposals. These
proposals are incorporated by the Ministry of Planning into a draft plan
which is submitted to the Council of Ministers.
49.       In the first four years of the 1971-1975 Five-Year Plan, capital
investment in the transport sector amounted to about CFAF 7.9 billion (US$32.0
million) or some 20 percent of total capital expenditures. Investments in
transport infrastructure were concentrated on improving the trunk road network
and the facilities of the ACCF. About 70 percent of the total investment in
the sector was devoted to highways, 25 percent to river transport and 5 per-
cent to air transport. Recognizing the dependence of the economy on efficient
transport systems, the Government planned to increase transport investments
substantially in the subsequent Five-Year Plan. The 1976-1980 Plan for the
highway sector calls for the construction or improvement of more than 1,900 km
of roads, reconstruction of about 30 bridges scattered in different regions
and a maintenance program for secondary and feeder roads. The highest prior-
ity is given to the construction of the Bangui-Bossembele-Cameroon Border road
(595 km).  The Plan also includes construction of the M'Baiki-Mongoumba road
(115 km) as well as the pavement strengthening of the Bangui-Damara road (68
km) between Bangui and the start of the proposed project road which begins
at PK 11.5 north of Bangui.
50.       Implementation of the plan is proceeding slowly; at present only six
of the thirty bridges are being reconstructed under the first phase of a FED
program. In the second phase, FED would continue with the bridge projects and
would also finance pavement strengthening of the Bangui-Damara road.
51.       While specific bottlenecks in the transport network do exist, actual
transport demand in C.A.E. does not justify at present new investments in road
construction on the proposed scale of the new Plan. Furthermore, financing



- 16 -
for the entire program is unlikely to be obtained. A more realistic approach
would be to construct only the road to Cameroon, to rehabilitate the Bangui-
Damara road and to reconstruct the bridges. The appropriate strategy for most
of the trunk road system would be to preserve the existing network from dete-
rioration by carrying out maintenance, which has been inadequate for many
years, and to introduce gradual improvement with rehabilitation projects.
The Government is aware that the targets in the Plan are overambitious. The
current situation in C.A.E. does not permit the sector lending approach for
transport. The sector's capabilities are two limited due to basic shortcom-
ings such as lack of qualified staff with managerial capability (as meno-
strated in the execution of the previous road maintenance program) and a
severe shortage of local funds for all sectors. Therefore, a project-by-
project approach will remain the appropriate form of lending for the C.A.E.
in the foreseeable future.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
52.       The proposed Third Highway project consists of the reconstruction
of the Bangui-Boali-Bossembele road (145 km) to a two-lane, bituminous, sealed
standard. The feasibility study and the detailed engineering for the recon-
struction of the Bangui-Bossembele road were financed under Credit No. 199-CA
and prepared by consultants Louis Berger (U.S.A.). The appraisal mission
visited C.A.E. in March 1976. However the processing of the project was
delayed until the Government was able to establish a minimum road maintenance
program satisfactory to the Association (para. 40). Negotiations were held
from November 7 to 11, 1977 in Washington with a delegation from C.A.E. led
by H.E. Andre Dieudonne Magale, Minister of Planning. An appraisal report
entitled Third Highway Project (No. 1246-CA), dated August 21, 1978 is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A Credit and Project
Summary is presented at the beginning of this report.
Description
53.       The project covers the period 1978 to 1981 and consists of:
(a)  reconstruction of the Bangui-Bossembele road (145 km)
to a two-lane bituminous sealed standard, including the
construction of a new two-lane bridge on a modified align-
ment at the M'Bali river crossing; and
(b) technical assistance for laboratory services related to
construction supervision and for completion of detailed
engineering, prequalification of contractors and evalution
of bids.
Objectives
54.       The proposed Third Highway Project would assist the Government
in its efforts to improve landlocked C.A.E.'s access to the ocean. The



- 17 -
Bangui-Bossembele trunk road is an important section of the country's shorter
alternative route to the ocean via Cameroon rather than the Congo. The con-
struction of the Bangui-Bossembele-Cameroon border road would not only reduce
would make arrangements with FAC satisfactory to the Association to ensure
the continued availability of a team of qualified experts to assist DGPW
for the implementation and supervision of the Project throughout the project
construction period (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). DGPW would provide supervision team support services and laboratory
services whilst necessary laboratory equipment would be provided under the
project.
Project Cost and Finantcing
56.       The total project cost is estimated at US$25.7 million equivalent,
net of identifiable taxes and duties, of which foreign costs amount to US$22.4
million (87 percent). The Government has exempted the project from taxes and
duties. The high proportion of foreign costs occurs because of the need to
import all contractor's plant, qualified personnel, skilled labor, materials
and equipment. These cost figures are based on an evaluation of the results
of bids received and opened in April 1978. The foreign and local components
of total construction costs are comparable to those for a recently completed
project, Damara-Sibut road (FED financing, 1975).
57.       Costs for reconstruction of the Bangui-Bossembele road were prepared
using the consultants' detailed engineering designs, originally based on
September 1975 prices and updated to October 1977 prices. Physical contingen-
cies of 10 percent have been allowed; price increases are estimated at 8 per-
cent in 1978, 7.5 percent for 1979 and 7 percent onwards. As supervision of
the construction works will be by the DGPW using FAC experts, estimates for
these works exclude costs of the FAC supervision team, but include the teams
support services and the retroactive financing of costs of laboratory services.
A minor sum is included in the cost estimate for engineering consulting ser-
vices to finance the finalization of detailed engineering, prequalification
of contractors and evaluation of bids.
58.       Prior to negotiations it was envisaged that IDA would provide a
US$17.5 million credit to cover the foreign exchange component of the proj-
ect while the Government of C.A.E. would contribute US$1.0 million equiva-
lent to cover the remaining local cost of the project. However, in view of
uncertainties with respect to prices, it was proposed to await the results
of the bids before finalizing the financing plan of this project. On the
basis of the bids received in March 1978, the total estimated cost of the
project increased to US$25.7 million with a foreign exchange component of
US$22.4 million. It was therefore necessary to seek other donors to cover
the financing gap and KFAED agreed to provide a US$3.6 million loan to joint-
finance only the foreign exchange component of the costs of civil works (in-
cluding contingencies). AFDEV agreed to contribute US$5.6 million to finance
the costs of civil works (including contingencies); as an exception to its
normal procedures AFDEV agreed to finance jointly both local and foreign
exchange costs on a pari-passu basis, on condition that IDA shares pari passu



- 18 -
the foreign as well as local costs financing. As a result of these arrange-
ments, disbursements against the US$15.5 million credit would be US$13.7 mil-
lion for foreign exchange costs and US$1.8 million for local costs. The
resulting financing plan is outlined in the Credit and Project Summary pre-
sented at the beginning of this report. A condition of IDA credit effective-
ness would be that the cofinancing agreements with both KFAED and AFDEV have
been signed and that all conditions precedent to their disbursements were
fulfilled save only the condition that the IDA Development Credit Agreement
has become effective (Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
59.       All procurement would be by international competitive bidding and
after prequalification of bidders. In order to allow local contracting firms
to bid for bridgeworks, the project works have been split into two contracts,
i.e., roadworks for the entire road, and bridgeworks for the new structure
over the M'Bali River. In order to ensure the most realistic estimates
of total project costs, bids for the construction works were received and
analyzed prior to submitting the project to your approval. Of the eleven
firms prequalified, four submitted bids for roadworks and three tendered for
bridgeworks. The Government proposes to award the contracts to the lowest
bidders, i.e., a French firm for roadworks and a local firm for bridgeworks.
Contracts for construction works are to be awarded in September 1978, works
to start in October 1978 and to take about two and a half years to complete.
60.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$15.5 million would be disbursed from
FY1979 to FY1981; the following percentages of expenditures would be financed:
(i)  reconstruction of Bangui-        60 percent;
Bossembele road
(ii)  supervision of civil works       100 percent of the foreign expendi-
(laboratory equipment and        tures and 55 percent of local cost
laboratory services)             expenditures;
(iii)  consulting engineering           100 percent of foreign exchange
services                         costs.
Retroactive Financing
61.       Retroactive financing up to US$140,000 is recommended to cover the
costs of finalization of detailed engineering, prequalification of contractors
and evaluation of bids, for which payments are to be made to consultants for
such expenditures before the signing of the proposed credit but after November
1977.



- 19 -
Economic Justification
62.       The economic rate of return of the project based on total cost is
12 percent; the return for paving the first section, Bangui-Boali (82 km),
representing 57 percent of total project cost, is 13 percent and for the
second section, Boali-Bossembele (63 km), 11 percent based solely on benefits
from savings in vehicle operating costs for normal and generated traffic,
maintenance cost savings and distance savings (the project would shorten
travel by 2.5 km). Benefits from time savings and accident reduction have
not been included in the calculation. The project fits well within the
Government's strategy of improving the land transport network. The road
section to be constructed under the proposed project serves populated and
economically important regions of the C.A.E. where the investment would
stimulate agricultural development because of the improved access to markets
and the reduced costs of supplying inputs.
63.        The proposed project road, as one of the major trunk roads in the
country with significant local traffic, will have a positive impact on devel-
opment over a wider area than just the immediate zone of road influence. The
Bangui-Bossembele road is the first leg of the C.A.E.'s important alternate
route to the ocean (through Cameroon) which is gaining in importance. Although
in 1976 the route took about 10 percent of C.A.E.'s export/import traffic, it
could be reasonably assumed that after being improved in the C.A.E. the route
will gradually take over about 40 percent of total external traffic in the
next 15 years. The Bangui-Bossembele road is also part of the Trans-Equatorial
route serving landlocked Chad as well. About one-third of Chad's external
traffic has been using this route via Bangui to Oubangui river. In addition
to routes through Nigeria and Cameroon, the Trans-Equatorial route is an
important link, particularly for the southern part of Chad, not only for
cotton export but also for various imports (fuel, cement and other processed
goods). The road is also part of the Trans-African highway connecting Lagos
with Mombasa, whose importance will grow following progress of the highway
construction. The contribution of the project road to the economic develop-
ment of the Central African Region and the country, therefore, is complex,
since the artery will carry traffic related to various aspects of economic
activity. It will also ease passenger movement to and from Bangui towards the
north and west of the country. Development of the region where the project
road is situated will be, therefore, inter alia, the joint product of agricul-
ture programs and transport improvements.
Risks
64.       No risks are anticipated in the physical execution of the project.
The cost of the project is also well defined since it is based on the results
of ICB. However, a risk exists concerning the availability of local funds for
financing Government's counterpart funds and for road maintenance. Even if
adequate funds would be committed, inadequate financial management may
jeopardize their availability at the right time. To mitigate this risk, the
Association requested and the C.A.E. Government agreed that Government's
contribution to the road maintenance program be deposited in a special bank
account outside of Government's Treasury. Government has so far lived up to



- 20 -
its commitment for the year 1978. However, in view of the Government's
failure to provide counterpart funds in the past, the Association will review
regularly the status of the Government's contribution to the project and to
the road maintenance program. Furthermore, the success of institution build-
ing will depend on the availability of trained manpower which is scarce. The
implementation of the maintenance program is left largely in the hands of the
other codonors which should ensure its successful implementation because of
the long experience of FAC and FED in the field of road maintenance in the
C.A.E.   The spirit of cooperation exhibited by all codonors and the Govern-
ment during preparation of the project also augurs well the success of the
maintenance program.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Central African
Empire and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.
66.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in Annex III of this report.
67.       Special condition of credit effectiveness would be that (a) the
agreement with FRG has been signed and (b) the KFAED and AFDEV loan and credit
agreements have been signed and the initial disbursement conditions under
these agreements, save for the effectiveness of the IDA credit, have been
fulfilled (Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By Ernest Stern
Attachments
August 22, 1978



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
CENTRAL AFR. EMPIRE SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                ----------------------------------------________
---------------                           CENTRAL AFR. EMPIRE                      REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      623.0                                      MOST RECENT                         CONGO
AGRIC.      60.1                      1960       1970   ESTIMATE           NIGER      PEOPLE'S REP. IVORY COAST*
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   120.0      170.0     250.0             110.0       330.0       380.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)           1.3        1.6       1.9               4.0         1.2        5.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       2.0       3.0        3.0               3.0         4.0       16.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       22.0      27.0      32.0               22.0         8.0       32.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)        46.2      45.4       43.4              52.3        44.1       46.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)         30.5      26.4       22.5               25.7       23.8       23.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)      190.0/a       ..        ..                ..
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)      35.0      39.0       41.0              38.5        41.0       41.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.5/a     2.9        2.7               3.5         2.8        3.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                2.0       2.2        2.2               2.8         2.6        3.4/a
URBAN                                7.9       7.2        5.9               6.3         5.6        8.77W
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)         18.6       30.1      35.9                8.2       36.0       28.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      41.6      42.1       42.0              44.5        42.0       42.5
1S TO 64 YEARS                      54.1      54.8       54.9              52.6        53.0       54.8
65 YEARS AND OVER                    4.3       3.1        3.1               2.9         5.0        2.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   0.8       0.8        0.8               0.9         0.9        0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.8/b     0.9/a     0-9/a               1-0/a      1-l/a      0.9/C
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         720.0     820.0     890.0             1900.0       520.0/b   2600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)        94.0      91.0      89.0               91.0        56. 07W    82.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            ..       ..         ..                ..
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..       ..         ..                ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS          ..        ..         ..                ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                .. 38100.0    18610.0             58260.0      9160.0    15320.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2680.0 /c 1280.0 /b      *-            7040.0       850:0/c   2830.0/d
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          670.0     460.0         ,,            2230.0       220.0/d   1150.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)        96.0      97.0     102.0               83.0        97.0      114.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             48.0      48.0       49.0/b            72.0       40.0        60.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..      22.0         .               24.0/b     23.0/e      18.0 /e
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4           27.4 /a      ..        ..
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      32.0      69.0       79.0              14.0      133.0        76.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     1.0       5.0        8.0               1.0       19.0        11.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            10.0    10-13      10-13               13.0       13.0        13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                      ,,      12.0       *9.                3.0       10.0         7.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)               15.0 /d                                           so . *  50.0/f  20.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)               3.4        ..         ..                ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                       ..        ..         ..                ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  ..        ..         ..                ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                    ..        ..        ..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)        10.0      30.0     41.0                36.0        69.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          2.0       4.0        5.0               1.0          ..       10.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           6.0      29.0       30.0              10.0        64.0       95.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               ..         ..        ..                .,          ..        0.2
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



-22 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 o f 14 pages
NOTE-S
.Th.ese otherwise noted, (e.g., ONP per capita and population), data for 1960 refer to tllyyear between 1959 and 1961, tot 1970 between, 1969 and 1971,
and for Moat Rtecent Estimate between 1973 and 1976.
*:vcrv Coast haa been selected as ank objective country for C.A.E., bacause it has similar resource base, similar domestic and international
_tiutltutlonal sec-up "Regional Central Bank, Membership in the Franc Zone'.
CENTRAL APR. REP.       1950     /a  African population only, excluding 15 percent of population not covered by survey;               lb   Ratio of population under
15 and 65 and over to total labor force;         jj   Including midwives and assistant nurses;          Id  Prior to 1965.
1970     /a   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end over to total labor force;             /b  Including midwives and assistant nurses.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE;       /a   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;             lb   1969-71 average.
NIGEl                   1970     Is  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;             lb   1964-66.
CON'GO PEOPLE'S REP.    1970     /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end over to total labor force;             /b   Total population in age 15-59;
It  including assistant nurses;         Id  1967;     /a   1964-66;     /f   1966.
IVORY COAST             1 970    /Is  Due to iinigration, population growth rate is higher than rate of natural increase;               lb  1965-70;      /c  Ratio
of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;            /d   Government personnel including midwives;
Is 1964-66.
R2, July 20, 1978
DEFINITIONS 0? SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thou km2)                                                                       population per nursing Person - Population divided by ntumber of practicini
Totsal   Total surface ares coprising lend area and inland waters,                           male and female graduate nurses, "trsined" or "certified" nurseen, and
Astric.  Most recent estimatae of agricultural ares used temporarily or pensa-               auxiliary personnel with training or experience.
nently for crops, pastures, market & kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                   Population par hospital bed - Population divided by nm.eber of hospital beds
availab le in public and private general and specialiced hospital and
GNP per capita (US5) - ON? per capita estisoates at curranit market prices,                   rehabilita tion c enters; excludes nursing homoes and establishments for
calculated by same c onversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 cusatodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1977 data.                                                                Per capita sanply of calories fT of resuirem-trs) - Computed fran energy
equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita per day;
Population and vital statistics                                                              available supplies .comprise dometic production, imports less experts, and
Peculation (mid-year million) - Al of July first:     if not available, average              changes in stock; net supplies exclude aniaal feed, seeds, quantities used
of two end-yesr estiavates; 1960, 1970 and 1977 data,                                      in feed processing and losses in distribution; requiremnts were estima ted
by FAQ based on physiological needs for normnal activity and health conaid-
Population density - per oscar. let - mid-year population per square kilome ter              sting environmental temperature, body weights, age and sex distributions of
(100 hectares) of total ares.                                                              Po pula'tion, and allowing 10% for waste at household level.
Population density - per square Ion of atrin, lend - Computed as above for                 Per capita supply of protein (sramn car day) - Protein content of per capita
agricultural land only.                                                                    net supply of fosd per day; net supply of food is def iced as above; reqsire-
ments for all countries established by USDAk Ecmonmic Raeserch Services
Vital statistics                                                                              provide for a miniamum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rate cer thousacd. average - Annual live births per thousand of                   20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal1
mid-year population; ten-year aritimnetic averagies ending in 1960 and 1970,               prote in; thes e standards are lower than those of 71 greams of total protein
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estima te,                            and 23 grams of an imal pro teIn as an average for the world, proposed by FAO
Crude death rate per thousand, average - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year               in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-               Per capIta protein supply frn animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                                      derived from, anima ls and pulses in gram   per day.
In fant mortality rate i/thou)- Annual deaths of infants under one year of age             Death rate f/thaws ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
per thousand live births.                                                                  years, to children in this age group; suggested a       soa indicator of
Life eopectcanny at birth (yr)     A-Avrage staber of yerar of life remaining at             meln.trition.
birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countries.                                                                           Education
Gres. -repoduction rate       eae   number of live daughters a we-nn will bear              Adjusted enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrollment of oIl ages as per-
in her nort-oal reproductive period if she experiences present age-specific                centage of priosry school-age population:; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                  but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countries with
for developing countries._                                                                 universal education, enrollment may exceed lOOT since som      pupils are below
Population crowth rate (%)    totalI - Compound annual growth rates of mid-year              or above the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                             Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; secondary
Population arowLb rate (TI - urban - Computed like growth rats of total                      education requires at least four years of approved primary inatructlon;
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect conparability of               provides general, vocational or teacher training instructions for pupils
data among countries.                                                                      of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally excluded.
Urbam population (7, of total) - Ratio of urban to total populatIon; different             Years of schoolingp povided (first and second levels) - Total years of
definitlon. of urban areas may effect comparability of data amOng countries,               school ing  atscodr       level, vocational instruction may be partially or
completely excluded,
Axe structure (percent) - Children (S-li years), working-age (15-64 years),                Vocational enolet To         eodaryl - Vocational institutions include
and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-year population,                     technical, indutrial or other programs which operate independently or as
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of Population under 15 and 65 and over to thoase                departments of secondary Institutions.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                   Adult literacy rate (Ti  - Literate adults (able to read and write) as per-
E-conomic dependencyrai     - Ratio of popelation under 15 end 65 and over to                caenage of total adult population aged 15 yerar and over.
the labor fence In age group of 15-64 ..eers.
Family plannIng. - acceptor (cmlaie thou) - Cumulative number of acceptors                 Housing
of birth-control devices under uaspices of national family planning program              Personse per room (urban) - Average number of persona per room    in occupied-
Fsince l:ncpion.                                                                            conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings exclude non-permanent
famIy_clasping -users IT of maried wmn          Percentages of martied women of             structures and unoccupied pants.
chil-beaing  ge(5-44year) who use birth-control devices to all married           Occupied dwellings wihuMie         ae    T     - Occupied conventional dwellings
women in same age group.                                                                   in urban and rural areas without inside or outside piped water facilities
Employment force (thousand)  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~~         ~~~~,as percentage of al occupied d-Ielinga.
Accessto electricity CT of all dwellngs) -Conventional dwellings with
Totaol labor    c   th    n    - Economically active persons, including armed                electrici ty in living quartets as percent of total dwellings in urban and
forces and uneployed but exclu.ding bousewives, students, etc.; definitions                rural areas.
in verioos countries are not comparable.                                                 Rural dwellinas connected to electricity (Ti - Compuced as above for rural
Laborfoc    in agriculture fT) - Agricultural labor force fin farming, forestry,             delings only.
huntn    end fishin) as percentage of total labor force.
Unemployed f% of labor force)   U-Unmployed are usmaIly defined as persona who             Cona,unption
are able and willing to takea job, our of a Job on a given day, remained Out             Radio receivers (per thou pop) - Akll types of receivers for radio broadcasts
of a job, and seeking work for a specified minimum period not exceeding one                to general public per thousand of population; excludes snlicensed receivers
week; may set be comparable between countries due to different definitions                 in countries and In years when registration of radio sets was in effect;
Of onemployad and source of data, e.g.' employment Office statistics, sample               data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries abolished
surveys, compulsory unemployment insurance.                                                 licensing.
Pasengr*Lca.rs lee2r thou pop - Passe nger cars comprise motor crar seating
Incomedistribution - Percentage of private income (both in casb and kind)                     lestaPihOprosOxlds                   muacs       erssadmltr
received by richest 5%, richest 20%. poorest 20%, and poorest 40% of house-                 vehicles.    htprosexld.abans,e...edilty
holds.                                                                                   Electricity fkweh/yr per cap) - Annual counoption of industrial, ccmmercial,
public and private electricity in kilowatt hours per capita, generally
Distriburo    flndoaeai -          Percentages of land owned by wealthiest 10%                baaed onproduction data, without allowance for losses in grids but allow-
and Poorest 10    fo land owner.-                                                           Ing far imports and .eporta of electricity.
Health and Nutritim                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~Newsprint (kg/yr per cap) - Per capita annual consumption in kilograms,
Hea~,l.thand NuritIon,i    -Pp!t-d11..y              -..,1p.t.                                estimated from domestic production plus net Imports of newsprint.
PhysIcians qualIifid from a eIcalucltol at uiversty leve.1



- 23 -
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                        ANNJAL RATE OF GROXTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.        %                       1960 -65           1965 -70           1970-1976
GNP at Market Prices            484.9      100.0                         1.6                3.6                 1.4
Gross Domestic Investment        96.9       20.0                         5.2                1.0                 3.8
Gross National Saving            63.1       13.0                        28.2                3.2                6.o
Current Account Balance         -34.7       -0.7                        -2.2               0.0                -7.2
Exports of Goods, NFS            96.9       20.0                        10.4                2.1                 5.1
Imports of Goods, NFS           130.8       27.0                         7.7               1.7                 6.3
CNUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY D; 1976
Value Added                   Labor Force                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.                         M Mln.    _ %                   US $         3_
Agriculture                     159.0       33.0
Industry                         89.1       18.0
Services                        177.4       37.0
Unallocated  1/                  59.4       12.0
Total/Average            .           .                           _
48ht.9     100.0                        100.0                             100.0
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT                                       /2                                           of GDP
FINANCE (Blns CFAF)             1973.  1975   1976   1977       1978 /3                      1976          1971-76
Current Receipts                10.8   13.0   13.5    15.0      18.0                          12            14
Current Expenditure             12.3   16.4   14.9    19.4      17.4                          13            17
Current Surplus                 -1.5   -3.4   -1.4   -4.4       -0.T                         -1             -3
Capital Expenditures             1.4    1.8    2.6     2.6       2.6                           2             2
External Assistance (net)/4      0.5    2.6    1.3     1.5       1.5                           2             2
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES             1971 9   W(2     1Y93    1974    1975    1976    1977
(Billions of CFAF outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                 8.4     9.8    10.3     13.4    13.5    18.9    20.8   /5
Bank credit to Public Sector          2.2     2.4     4.8      7.4     9.1     9.8    10.8  7W
Bank Credit to Private Sector         8.9     4.9    10.2    11.3     11.6    10.6    15.6  7/
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP    13.1    14.5    14.8     15.3    13.1    16.3
Wholesale Price Index (1976=l00)/7 66.4      70.6    72.8    82.8     95.2   100.0
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale price index                 5.6     6.3      3.1    13.7    15.0     5.0
Bank credit to Public Sector         -9.9     9.1   100.0     54.2    23.0     7.7    10.2
Bank credit to Private Sector       -20.9    11.2     3.0    10.8      2.7    -8.6    47.2
.. Not available.                 . Not applicable.
1/  Includes indirect taxes.
IMF,D estimates.
3/ II.9 forecasts based on a Trust Fund agreement.
1/  Consisting of grants and loans from foreign bilateral and multilateral entities and IMF counternarts.
5/ Up to April 1977.
6/ Up to August 1977.
7/  General price index not available.
July 19(8



- 24 -
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYHENTS AND CAPITAL FWWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 197i-76)
1970     1975      1976                           1970        1976       1971-1976
(Millions US $)                                US U5  %  Mn US$ 
Exports of Goods, NFS          61.8     80.7     96.9
Imports of Goods, NFS         77.9     159.7    130.8
Resource GaP (deficit = -)    :ET1~    _79.0   :77
Diamonds   12.1     41    10.2   15      26
Interest Payments (net)       -2.8      -2.7      -.5              Cotton       6.6    22     9.8   14       18
Workers' Remittances            1.0       .6       .9              Coffee       6.7    23    19.8   28       25
Other Factor Payments (net)    -         -        -                Timber       1.9     7    14.1   20       23
Net Transfers                 -1.8      -5.8     -1.2              Others       1.9     7    15.6   23        8
Balance on Current Account    -19.7    -86.9    -34.7                          29.2   100    69.5   100     100
Direct Foreign Investment        .9      4.5                      EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1976 /2
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements               1.7       .    .                                                             US $ Mln
Amortization                -1..
Subtotal                    -.3      14.5      *-                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             64.0
Capital Grants                  8.2     49.6     39.8               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)            1.4      14.1     10.8               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i               6.8      3.7     4.JP
Increase in Reserves (+j      -2.7      -0.5     20.1             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976 /3
Gross Reserves (end year)       0.2      3.8     18.8
Net Reserves   (end year)      -0.9     -1.9      3.7               Public Debt. incl. guaranteed             12.7
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                          Total outstanding & Disbursed             12.7
Imports
of which:  Petroleum 1/
Exports
of which:  Petroleum         .        .        *        IBRD/IDA LENDING, (latest month) (Million US $):
IBRD         IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
1970: 278    1974: 240                                        Outstanding & Disbursed               .         10.2
1971: 278    1975: 214                                        Undisbursed                           .          2.2
1972: 256    1976: 239                                        Outstanding incl. Undisbursed         .         12.4
1973: 230
Not applicable.
Not available.
1/   Staff estimates.
2/   Provisional Staff estimates.
3/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Servicees.
July 1978



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CENTRAL
AFRICAN EMPIRE (C.A.E.)
STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of June 30, 1978)
Credit                                        Amount (US$ million)
Number    Year     Borrower    Purpose        IDA     Undisbursed
Two Credits have been fully disbursed          8.5         -
308-CA    1972    C.A.E.       Education       3.9        2.2
Total IDA credits       12.4
Total undisbursed        2.2
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
Nil



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 308    Education I Project:   US$3.9 million Credit of May 26,
1972; Effective Date: January 18, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977.
The project originally consisted of: (a) construction and equip-
ping of two lower secondary schools; (b) extensions to four lycees and to
the technical lycee in Bangui; (c) technical assistance (7 man-years) for
project implementation and preparation of a long-term educational develop-
ment plan, curricula and teacher training plans. The project is about
2-1/2 years behind schedule, due largely to delays in (a) appointing con-
sultants, (b) recruiting a technical adviser to prepare bidding documents,
and (c) awarding construction contracts. As a consequence of these delays
and by world-wide inflation costs have risen from US$4.3 estimated at
appraisal to about US$10.2 million (net of taxes). Government has decided
with our agreement only to proceed with the extensions to five lycees and the
construction of two new lower secondary schools. Construction of the five
school extensions is almost complete, and contracts will soon be awarded for
equipment and for the two lower secondary schools. The net of tax cost of the
reduced project is estimated to be US$4.6 million. Because of Government's
financial difficulties IDA had agreed to disburse against 100 percent of net
tax costs of the project (see President's Memorandum to the Board No. IDA/
R77-51 of May 2, 1977). Meanwhile Government has obtained assistance from the
OPEC Special Fund to provide US$700,000 equivalent to finance the project
costs not covered by the Credit. The Credit will therefore finance 85 percent
of project costs net of taxes. The project is progressing satisfactorily.
1/   This note is designed to inform the Executive Directors about the
progress of projects which are being implemented, and to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy
them. It should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that it does not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT
DATA SHEET
SECTION I:     Timetable of Key Events
a)   Time taken by country to prepare project:       5 years
b)   Project prepared by:                            Government/consultants
c)   First time project submitted
to the Association:                            1971
d)   Departure of Appraisal Mission:                 February 28, 1976
e)   Negotiations completed:                         November 11, 1977
f)   Planned date of effectiveness:                  November 1978
SECTION II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
Consultants Louis Berger (USA) have been selected to carry out the
detailed engineering, the prequalification of contractors, and the
evaluation of bids. Retroactive financing up to US$140,000 is
proposed to cover these costs.
SECTION III:   Special Conditions
1.   Initiation by Government of a program of action by Government
to rehabilitate river transport and ACCF (para. 31).
2.   Agreement with FRG fully signed (para. 46).
3.   Assurances that satisfactory arrangements will be made to
ensure continued availability of a team of qualified experts
to assist DGPW in the implementation and supervision of the
Project (para. 55).
4.   Kuwait Fund Loan fully signed and all conditions precedent
to its disbursements, save for the effectiveness of the IDA
Credit, fulfilled (para. 58).
5.   AFDEV Credit fully signed and all conditions precedent to
its disbursements, save for the effectiveness of the IDA
Credit, fulfilled (para. 58).
6.   KFAED Loan fully signed and all conditions precedent to
its disbursements, save for the effectiveness of the IDA
Credit fulfilled (para. 58).






C.                  I  I  I  I       ' I
ru$     I I  I  K*  F.  i  I  a4,                 I  .                           r  -  
t5ErsIrF    ,1.,,;                      '      ^F 1- I>^  7.-       -       i
~~~~~~~~~~~.                     -   -  -.   ,     r
4-v,~~~~~~~~~~~A
t       1             k    ) ¢  ri  -~~~~~~~~~ I
h   ' .   -   " ' t      )      ' .      .          _
j~~I 
I. LI'                              I                  ;.-r_ 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I        -'                            - '1 t--       -Ir-
.a~ ~~~ ; F  - -  )   f           ,              ' -a .  -   -   '
_   b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -               A1  I  
FC'iA.                             . A' 
]~~~~~~~~~~~~~                   ~~~~~~ I,'  "  ''-  
-~~~~~~~~~                                 ~  ~ ~~~~~ I -  -  .,             CE NT .~  .r S,: wF I.:r  F PAr,FE
- ~      ~       -               ; ~'  I jI       THIRD HIGHVVAY PROJECT
>  ~    ~~~~~~ -F  *               -. 1,: e: l1   I 
I            ,'L1                        i.r.a,.  ,,  :I--f
|                               -  .  - r >,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/  ,               T.-0..  -Ir.:0.  MjkF...... z.
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~                           t . jl- .I o*.
F :' I e ,>~~~~            a     r 0   /1 IH .s| ..... 






IBRD 12229R
CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE                                                           -
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT                             ,---t 
ROAD NETWORK o
_--___I                                       .                                        --__- = =_
*J                         CRAMPEL
E*~~~~~~~~~. ->_                 t. 
\             r ,   >;~~ I.            -- . .          ..- *-~   -
C-~ ~                  t;          I                 "1_
/ BOSGAN A  ±  6OUCA            I" ,A     YALINGA   /
4 -- --,  t     ~~---       S*--__                    !_                     ; -      
s J | * Z A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  R  E Il; - ..;
±11
o  "  - S6.,-.;                                         _ , , ,.S2t
i?, ~  \                        Z/  A  I 



