Report No. 1246-CA                                                       FILE  COPY
Appraisal of a
Third Highway Project
Central African Empire
August 21, 1978
Western Africa Projects Department
Highways Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00        =  CFAF 245
CFAF 1 million = US$4,081
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES:
Metric
Metric                      British/US Equivalents
I meter (m)               =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      2   =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km ) =  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
I metric ton (m ton)      =  2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACCF  -  Agence Centrafricaine des Communications Fluviales
AfDF  -  African Development Fund
ATC   -  Agence Transcongolaise des Communications
CFCO  -  Chemin de Fer Congo Ocean
DGPW  -  Directorate General of Public Works
EDF   -  European Development Fund
FAC   -  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FRG   -  Federal Republic of Germany
GTC   -  Groupement des Transporteurs Centrafricain
MT    -  Ministry of Transport
ONAF  -  Office National d'Affretement
PK    -  Pointe Kilometrique
UNDP  -  United Nations Development Programme
voc   -  vehicle operating costs
vpd   -  vehicles per day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY  .....................................................................                         i- i
1.   INTRODUCTION           .................................................. .                          1
2.   THE  TRANSPORT  SECTOR  ......                ........................... .                          2
A.   Economic  Setting  ...........................................                                 2
B.   The  Transport  System  ................. ..........................                           2
C.   Transport  Planning   .             ...a..   .  .... ...  ... .............. . . .   .         5
3.   HIGHWAYS  oo..... ... o................... ....................................                      7
A.   The Network  ................................................                                  7
B.   Characteristics  and Growth  of Road  Traffic  .................                               7
C.  The Road Transport Industry .................................    8
D.  Administration ........................................................... 3
E.   Planning  and Financing  .... . . . . . . . .   ...........                                    9
F. Engineering and CoAistruction ..* .......                                                       11
G.  Maintenance .           ................................................                       11
4.   THE PROJECT ..                     ...................................................              15
A.   Description  ...................                .     ............................            15
B.   Cost  Estimates  ................                   .............................             16
C.   Execution                  ..................................................                 18
D.   Financing  and Disbursements  ................................                                19
5.   ECONOMIC  EVALUATION  ............................................                                  20
A.   General                 ....................................................                  20
B.   Regional Development  ..........................................                              20
C.   Traffic                      .........................................                        21
D.   Economic Return                .................................                              22
E.   Sensitivity Analysis  .......................................                                 22
F.   Distribution  of Benefits  ........ ..................................                        23
6.   AGREEMENTS  REACHED  AND RECOMMENDATION  ................                       ..........          23
This report has been prepared by Messrs. D. Jovanovic (economist), S. Hayden
and G. Trnka (engineers) following an appraisal mission in March 1976, and
two post-appraisal missions in April 1977 and April 1978.
|  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLES
1. Composition of the Hfghway Network in 1976
2. Traffic Development in River Ports 1970 - 197-5
3. Investments in Transport Sector during 1971 - 1975 Plan
4. Draft Investment Program for the Transport Sector in the New Five-
Year Plan 1976 - 1980
5. Vehicle Fleet Development 1971 - 1975
6. Highway Expenditures 1971 - 1975
7. Estimates of Government Revenue from Road Users 1973 - 1975
8. Design Standards for Reconstruction of Bangui-Bossembele Road
9. Estimated Schedule of Local Cost Financing
10. Estimated Schedule of Credit Disbursements
11. Estimates of Vehicle Operating Costs
12. Estimated Economic Returns of the Reconstruction of Bangui-
Bossembele Road
ANNEX
1. Economic Evaluation of Bangui-Bossembele Road Reconstruction
CHART
Organization of Department of Public Works
MAPS
IBRD 12228
IBRD 12229



C.A.E.
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Central African Empire (C.A.E.) is a landlocked country about
1,700 km from the nearest ocean port (Douala). The flows of C.A.E.'s external
trade are very sensitive to transport costs because of the long distances
between production centers and ocean ports and the fact that the scarcity
of known natural resources causes heavy dependence on imports. The country's
main access to the sea is the Trans-Equatorial route (which is run by Agence
Transcongolaise des Communications, ATC) to the port of Pointe Noire (Congo),
a distance of about 1,810 km. However, a shorter route via Cameroon is grow-
ing in importance, due partly to shortcomings of the route via Congo. The
Douala port handles about 10% of C.A.E.'s external trade: it is estimated
that in 1976 over 200,000 tons of C.A.E.'s export/import traffic used the ATC
route, while about 20,000 tons were transported via Cameroon. The routes are
competing and complementary at the same time. Assuming that the volume of
C.A.E. export/import traffic will grow at about a modest 3% per annum, by 1985
approximately 65,000 tons or about 20% of total tonnage is expected to be
transported via the Cameroon route; by 1995 its share could reach 40% of the
total volume of the export/import traffic or 170,000 tons. Nevertheless, the
ATC route is expected to keep more than 50% of C.A.E.'s external trade or over
200,000 tons per annum.
ii.       The internal transport infrastructure is generally adequate in
extent for the country's level of development. In the draft 1976-1980 Five-
Year Plan (draft plan) the Government gives high priority to improvement of
the route to Cameroon (Bangui-Bossembele-Cameroon Border road), to construc-
tion of about 30 bridges in different regions and to a maintenance program
for secondary roads. On the Association's initiative, the Government and
participating foreign donors prepared a four-year program for maintenance
of primary roads. In addition, the draft plan calls for construction or im-
provement of about 1,300 km of trunk roads. The draft plan appears ambitious,
and it is uncertain how the entire program will be financed. In the period
1971-1974, capital investments in the transport sector amounted to about CFAF
7.9 billion (US$32.0 million), or about 28% of total capital expenditure in
the country.
iii.      Bank Group lending in the transport sector has totalled about
US$8.5 million to help finance two highway projects, one in 1969 for about
100 km of road construction, and the second in 1970 for a 4-year road main-
tenance program. The construction works of the First Highway Project were
satisfactorily completed. The Second Highway Project, however, was not
successful; its execution was hampered mainly by the Government's continuous
lack of funds for recurrent maintenance expenditure.



- ii -
iv.       The main objective of the proposed Third Highway Project is to
improve a major trunk road, Bangui-Boali-Bossembele (145 km), which also
serves as the first section of C.A.E.'s access route to the ocean via Cameroon.
Landlocked C.A.E. cannot rely exclusively on the Trans-Equatorial route which
is useable only about eight months per year and which does not provide satis-
factory services for transit traffic. Construction of the Bangui-Bossembele-
Cameroon Border road would provide year-round access to an ocean port and
reduce transit time. For these reasons and the significant local traffic it
carries, the road is given high priority in the draft plan. The proposed
project consists of the reconstruction of the Bangui-Bossembele road to
two-lane bituminous sealed standard.
v.        The Association made the financing of this project contingent upon
the Government's arrangement for a minimum road maintenance program supported
by foreign assistance. The aim is to initiate necessary maintenance on
limited networks and to have the Government gradually increase its effort.
vi.       The cost of the project is estimated at US$25.7 million equivalent
net of identifiable taxes and duties; foreign costs amount to US$22.4 million
(87%) and the local cost component is US$3.3 million equivalent (13%). The
Government has exempted the project from taxes and duties which would amount
to an additional US$3.6 million equivalent. The proposed Credit of US$15.5
million would finance 60% of the cost. The Government has committed itself to
finance part of the local component of project costs. However, in view of its
tight fiscal situation it was agreed that co-financing from external sources
is needed in order to cover almost the entire net-of-tax cost. The African
Development Fund will finance US$5.6 million and the Kuwait Fund US$3.6 mil-
lion. The Government will provide US$1.0 million.
vii.      The Directorate General of Public Works (DGPW) will be responsible
for execution of the project, with the assistance of consultants for com-
pletion of preparatory work. FAC experts already assigned to DGPW will
supervise construction.
viii.     Detailed engineering was completed in October 1975 and some addi-
tional work on the designs and the bidding documents were completed in
October 1977. DGPW employed consultant Louis Berger (USA) to carry out this
work together with the prequalification of contractors and evaluation of
bids. The reconstruction works will be done by unit price contracts, the
award of which will follow international competitive bidding (ICB) in accord-
ance with Bank Group guidelines. To enable participation of local contract-
ing firms in bidding for bridgeworks, the project works have been split into
two contracts i.e. roadworks for the entire road and bridgeworks for the new
structure at M'Bali River. Ten foreign firms have been prequalified for both
contracts and one local firm for the bridgeworks contract only. Separate
bids for each contract or a combined bid for both contracts were invited in
November 1977.
ix.       Costs for civil works are based on the detailed engineering studies
and were finalized after the results of bid opening were received in April
1978. There was no ICB in the country for four years; therefore to ensure the



- iii -
most realistic estimate of total project costs, the Government proceeded with
ICB prior to submitting the project to the Association's Board of Executive
Directors for approval of the Credit. Of the 11 firms prequalified, 4 con-
tractors submitted their bids for roadworks and 3 contractors tendered for
bridgeworks. After having evaluated the bids, the Government proposes to
award the contracts to the lowest evaluated bidders. Contracts for the
construction works are expected to be awarded in September 1978, and to take
about two and a half years to complete.
x.       Credit proceeds would be disbursed on the basis of 60% of total
expenditures for construction costs net of taxes and duties. The Govern-
ment has requested the Association to consider retroactive financing up
to a limit of US$140,000 for consultants' fees for finalization of detailed
engineering designs, prequalification of contractors and evaluation of bids.
Disbursement would be on the basis that the proposed IDA Credit of US$15.5
million would finance the following: (i) for reconstruction of Bangui-
Bossembele road, 60% of the total cost of items net of taxes and duties;
(ii) for supervision of construction, 100% of the foreign cost and 55% of
the total cost of laboratory services; and (iii) for consulting engineering
services, 100% of foreign cost.
xi.       The economic return for paving the road was estimated on the basis
of benefits from vehicle operating cost savings to normal and generated
traffic, maintenance cost and distance savings. The economic return for
paving Bangui-Bossembele road (145 km) is 12%; the return for paving the
first section is about 13% and for the second section about 11%, with a
first year return of 10% and 8% respectively. Under sensitivity tests,
the rate of return on the whole road still remains 10% when the cost is
increased by 10% and benefits decreased by 10%.
xii.      The bulk of project benefits is related to savings in agricultural
freight transport and long distance transport to and from Bangui, basically
measured in normal traffic, and generated traffic benefits. In addition, the
reconstruction of the road will produce time savings, and reduce accidents
and road maintenance costs. Finally, it is anticipated that the economy as
a whole will benefit from the project by improvement of C.A.E.'s part of its
export/import outlet via Cameroon.
xiii.     Agreement having been reached on the issues set forth in Chapter
6 of this report, the proposed project is suitable for a Credit of US$15.5
million to the Government of Central African Empire on standard IDA terms.






C.A.E.
APPRAISAL OF THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Central African Empire has a basic transport infrastructure gen-
erally adequate in extent to match the country's level of development. Over
recent years, the Government's development strategy has been to upgrade major
trunk roads (mostly in the south) where the Bangui-Bossembele-Bouar-Cameroon
Border road has been given particular attention. For the landlocked C.A.E.
the reconstruction of the road will improve a long desired and needed alter-
native to the Trans-Equatorial route for access to the ocean.
1.02      The proposed project would be the third financed by the Association
in the transport sector of C.A.E. The First Highway Project (Credit 146-CA,
US$4.2 million, 1969), financed the paving of Bangui-M'Baiki road (98 km)
which was satisfactorily completed in 1972. The Second Highway Project
(Credit 199-CA, US$4.3 million, 1970) consisted of a four-year highway main-
tenance program, including procurement of equipment, spare parts, materials
and technical assistance for project management and training. Due to Govern-
ment's financial inability to meet necessary recurrent road maintenance
costs, use of road maintenance equipment for other than project works, and
unsatisfactory training results, the program's scope was significantly re-
duced. The project was unsuccessful and was finished in early 1975.
1.03      Preparation of the proposed project began in 1970 under the Second
Highway Project which also provided financing for the feasiblity study and
detailed engineering for the Bangui-Bossembele road. The study was prepared
in June 1972, but the execution of detailed engineering was deferred due to
low traffic at that time. Detailed engineering was finally completed in
October 1975, and an updated economic analysis was completed in February
1976.
1.04      The project cost is estimated at US$25.7 million equivalent net of
identifiable taxes and duties; foreign costs amount to US$22.4 million (87%)
and local costs amount to US$3.3 million equivalent (13%). The proposed
Credit of US$15.5 million would finance 60% of the cost. The Government has
exempted the project from taxes and duties, which would total US$3.6 million
equivalent.
1.05      This report is based on studies carried out by the DGPW consultants,
Louis Berger (USA), and on the findings of an appraisal mission, consisting
of Messrs. D. Jovanovic (economist), S. Hayden and G. Trnka (engineers),
which visited C.A.E. in March 1976, and post-appraisal missions in April 1977
and April 1978.



- 2 -
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
2.01      The Central African Empire with an area of about 620,000 km  is
located in Equatorial Africa. A landlocked country, the C.A.E. is faced with
high transport costs to reach remote trade outlets. Most of the country lies
on a high rolling plateau which presents no particular geographical obstacles
to transport, but long distances put a strain on the transport system. The
sparse population, growing at about 2.2% annually, is estimated at about 2.0
million in 1978. It is concentrated mostly in the south and west of the
country, where the areas of economic activity are located.
2.02      In recent years the Gross National Product (GNP) has been stagnat-
ing in real terms; GNP per capita was estimated at about US$230 in 1976.
Natural resources include agriculture and livestock potentials in the south
and west, substantial forest reserves in the southwest and some minerals,
diamonds (near Berberati) and uranium deposits (near Bakouma). About 80%
of the population is engaged in agriculture and forestry, together account-
ing for about 40% of GNP. Principal exports from 1973 to 1976 were timber
products (30%) and diamonds (23%) followed by coffee (22%) and cotton (16%).
This represents a major shift in the composition of exports in 1970 when
diamonds accounted for 41% of export value, cotton and coffee 22% each, and
timber 6%. While the increase in the value of coffee exports was caused by
world market, diamond production has fallen, the cotton sector has stagnated
and the timber industry underwent a swift expansion which was halted in 1975
and 1976 because of decreased demand in Europe. Despite an average increase
of about 8% in export tax revenues from 1970 to 1975, overall budgetary
deficits continue (US$11.4 million in 1975 as compared to US$16.0 million
in 1976) mainly due to increased import prices and inadequate fiscal and
budgetary management.
B.   The Transport System
2.03      The domestic transport system is simple and relies mainly on road
transport. The present road network consists of about 11,000 km of classi-
fied primary and secondary roads of generally low standards (only about 300
km are paved) and about 11,000 km of unclassified feeder roads and tracks
(Table 1). Major trunk roads radiate from Bangui, C.A.E.'s capital. The
main internal transport axis is C.A.E.'s part of Trans-African Highway
(Cameroon Border-Bossembele-Bangui-Sibut-Zaire Border, about 1,300 km)
connecting the country from east to west (see Maps). Details of the road
system and of the characteristics of road transport are given in Chapter 3.
Access to the Ocean
2.04      The flows of C.A.E.'s external trade are sensitive not only to
the high transport costs caused by long distances to the nearest ocean ports
(CFAF 19,000-34,000/ton or CFAF 11-20 per t/km), but also to inefficient
services provided on existing routes. External transport is therefore an



- 3 -
important factor to the economy, since the high transport costs make the
country's exports less competitive as well as inflate the domestic prices of
imports. The country's primary access to the sea is via the Trans-Equatorial
route (para. 2.05) running from N'Djamena (Chad) south to the port of Pointe
Noire (Congo). To reach Pointe Noire from Bangui, goods must travel a river/
rail route of approximately 1,810 km: 1,300 km by the Oubangui and Congo
rivers to Brazzaville and then 510 km by rail from Brazzaville to Pointe
Noire. The alternative route via Cameroon is shorter with a total distance
of about 1,680 km (Bangui-Douala). It goes from Bangui to N'Gaoundal by
all-weather road (about 850 km) and thence by railway (830 km) to the port of
Douala which offers significant savings in maritime freight; via n'Gaoundere
the route is 1,815 km.
2.05      The Trans-Equatorial route handles most of C.A.E.'s external trade
traffic, but its share has been gradually declining in recent years. Pre-
sently, the Trans-Equatorial route carries about 90% of C.A.E.'s external
trade, while the Cameroon route carries the rest. In 1976 it is estimated
that about 200,000 tons of C.A.E. export/import traffic used the ATC route,
while over 20,000 tons were transported via Cameroon. The routes are com-
peting and complementary at the same time. The less expensive river link
of the ATC route makes it attractive for the transport of bulk commodities,
namely timber, fuel, cement and cotton. The Cameroon route is attractive
for higher value commodities and small shipments, such as textiles, vehicles,
foodstuffs, beverages, leather, paper, coffee, tobacco, etc. Assuming that
the volume of C.A.E.'s export/import traffic will grow at about a modest 3%
per annum, by 1985 about 65,000 tons or 20% of total tonnage is expected to
be transported via the Cameroon route; by 1995 its share could reach 40% of
the total volume of export/import traffic or 170,000 tons. Nevertheless,
the ATC route is expected to keep more than 50% of C.A.E.'s external trade
or over 200,000 tons per annum. However, in the case of slower growth (less
than 3% annually) of the external trade volume, the ATC share of the traffic
is expected to be more affected.
2.06      Agence Transcongolaise des Communications (ATC), formed in 1969,
is the successor to a multi-national agency, the Agence Transequatoriale
des Communications (ATEC), created in 1958 by the Congo, Gabon, C.A.E. and
Chad to manage the 2,900 km route from N'Djamena (Chad), through Bangui
to Pointe Noire. Now a Congo national agency, ATC still performs many func-
tions of the former ATEC by virtue of agreements among the countries concerned.
ATC owns and operates an integrated system comprising: (a) the Atlantic Ocean
port of Pointe Noire; (b) a railway, Chemin de Fer Congo Ocean (CFCO), from
Pointe Noire to Brazzaville; and (c) river ports (including Brazzaville) and
river services on the Congo-Oubangui-Sangha rivers. There are several diffi-
culties in C.A.E.'s relying exclusively on this corridor. It is not useable
all year round since the Oubangui river is navigable only about eight months
during the year. Furthermore, since 1972 the ATC system has had difficulties
in handling the traffic. The principal bottleneck in the system has been the
railway. ATC's services have deteriorated, causing particularly long delays



- 4 -
for transit traffic of C.A.E. It is expected, however, that the operation of
the ATC system will improve. 1/
2.07      The Cameroon route, useable all year round, has constraints which
prevent C.A.E.'s using it to a greater extent. The road section in C.A.E.
(595 km) and a few bridges along the road need improvement or reconstruc-
tion which is given the highest priority in the draft Five-Year Plan (para.
3.11). The Government is seeking external financing for road sections after
Bossembele, and it can be reasonably assumed that this portion of the route
will be improved by 1984/85. In Cameroon, the road section via N'Gaoundal
is also part of the Trans-African Highway and 140 km (out of about 250 km)
have just been paved. The problem lies in the Douala-Yaounde corridor and
in the congested port of Douala. The situation will be improved by exten-
sions and reorganization of the port and with the planned construction of a
new marshalling yard. 2/
River Transport
2.08      River transport, particularly important for export/import traffic,
follows the Oubangui, Lobaye and Sangha rivers, totalling about 2,000 km.
Agence Centrafricaine des Communications Fluviales (ACCF), a state enter-
prise with financial and administrative autonomy under the authority of the
Ministry of Transport, was created in 1970. ACCF is responsible for freight
and passenger transport on C.A.E.'s waterways and partly on the ATC route to
Brazzaville. In 1976 total tonnage transported by ACCF was about 245,000
tons. Due to its poor management and organization, shortage of qualified
local staff and to declining traffic partly due to the economic situation in
the C.A.E., ACCF's financial position has been deteriorating. By 1976 its
total debt was about CFAF 1.5 billion, of which over CFAF 700 million was
owed to ATC (Congo). A study of the ACCF, financed by Fonds d'Aide et de
Cooperation (FAC), was completed in September 1975. It calls for the general
reorganization of and improvement in management, an increase in the technical
assistance team from 12 to 19 experts and an increase in the fleet. Efforts
1/   ATC has been trying to improve the various components of its system
and its current investment plan (1974-1978) calls for improvements
amounting to US$234 million to be financed mainly by international and
bilateral sources. The Bank Group has already contributed two credits
of US$16.2 million (in 1972 and 1973, Cr. 297-COB) and a US$38.0 million
loan (1976, Loan 1228-COB).
2/   The total cost of the Douala port extension and modernization project is
estimated at about US$120 million equivalent. In August 1976 the Bank
Group approved a loan of US$15 million and IDA credit of US$10 million.
The balance would be provided by other international and bilateral insti-
tutions and by the Government of Cameroon. The project is expected to
meet the port of Douala's needs through 1985. The growing traffic con-
gestion between Douala-Yaounde led to a study of alternative investment
policies for road and rail in this corridor. The Bank Group made two
loans to Cameroon railways totalling US$21.2 million; the last one (Loan
1038-CM) included the Douala-Yaounde transport corridor study which is
underway.



- 5 -
have also been made to increase ACCF operational capacity. The European
Development Fund (EDF), FAC and bilateral aid from the Federal Republic of
Germany (FRG) financed a project under which a tugboat and four tankers were
purchased. The project was completed in 1976.
2.09      The ports of C.A.E. are managed by ACCF.  Both their operational
efficiency and maintenance of their facilities need improvement. The port
of Bangui with a capacity of about 300,000 tons per year is the largest by
far. The traffic in the port declined 10% annually in the period 1970-1975
(Table 2), falling to 166,000 tons, of which approximately 30,000 tons was
Chad transit traffic. The port of Zinga, also on Oubangui River, is small
and used when vessels cannot reach Bangui because of low water level. Salo
on the Sangha River is not a real port and handles timber exports only (about
60,000 tons/year). The FAC-financed study recommended creation of a separate
management to operate Bangui port more efficiently and to take better care
of existing port facilities.
Air Transport
2.10      C.A.E. has an international airport at Bangui which handles about
95% of the country's total air traffic. The air traffic is low and stag-
nating; in 1973 the airport had a traffic volume of 6,800 tons and 24,000
passengers. The rest of the air traffic is spread over about 12 scattered
secondary airfields. Twelve expatriates assist C.A.E. in civil aviation;
additional qualified local staff is needed. The country has two airlines:
(i) Air Centrafricaine, Government-owned, with two old planes - one DC 3
and one Beach Baron; the company operates at a loss which is covered by
the general budget; (ii) ACAV (Agence Centraficaine de Voyage) is a private
enterprise of mixed capital with two Caravelles and specializes in unsched-
uled international flights.
C.   Transport Planning
2.11      Development plans in the transport sector are initiated by the
Ministry of Transport, and those specifically for roads by the Ministry of
Public Works, in the form of investment proposals. On the basis of these
preliminary proposals, the Ministry of Planning puts together a draft plan
which is submitted to the Council of Ministers for further review and finally
to the Emperor. For most investments, however, this institutional arrangement
is overshadowed by imperial decision-making, to the extent that the above
process can be reversed with investment proposals originating from the emperor.
Having the power centralized to such a degree creates institutional weakness
in the established planning process.
2.12      The Ministry of Transport (MT), formally responsible for transport
policy and coordination, needs qualified staff to strengthen policy making and
investment planning. The planning is actually reduced to investigations on a
project-by-project basis. At the request of MT, UNDP is considering financing
a transport planning specialist, who would only alleviate the staffing problem
in the Ministry. However, several nationals are at schools abroad, and the
Ministry expects them to be available in a few years.



2.13      During 1971-1975 (within the previous five-year plan) total invest-
ments in the economy as a whole amounted to about CFAF 39.0 billion, of which
capital investment in the transport sector amounted to about CFAF 7.9 billion
(US$32.0 million) or about 20% of total capital expenditures. The development
of the transport infrastructure has been slow, with emphasis on improving the
trunk road network and the facilities of ACCF. About 70% of the total invest-
ment in the sector was devoted to highways, 25% to river transport and 5% to
air transport (Table 3).
2.14      Although the transport sector's share appears adequate, in absolute
terms investments in the sector were insufficient considering its importance
and requirements.  The country's increasing reliance on imports and exports
can be expected to increase the sensitivity of its landlocked economy to
changes in quality and cost of transport services both within the country and
on external access routes to the sea.  It appears that the Government has
realized that, and in the draft plan (Table 4) the proposed program for the
transport sector calls for an enormous increase in investments amounting to
about CFAF 65.0 billion (US$265 million) or 43% of total planned investments
in 1976-1980 mostly for the highway sector (paras. 3.11-3.12). The financing
of the program relies almost entirely on external sources, and the program
appears too ambitious. Although the Government recognizes the importance of
road maintenance, little has been achieved in the field. Preliminary agree-
ment on a maintenance program was reached at a meeting held in Bangui in April
1977 between the Government and foreign donors (EDF, FAC, FRG and World Bank)
(para. 3.22). Due to this new development, the sector targets originally set
in the plan will need to be revised, since expected external resources will be
partly shifted to road maintenance.
2.15      Coordination of the various transport modes is not a problem in
the C.A.E., since road transport is the dominant mode and does not actually
compete with river transport. However, the organization of air transport
and particularly of river transport and ACCF need improvement and require
action by the Government. Following the recommendations of the FAC-financed
study, the Government agreed that, with the assistance of external donors,
it would prepare a program to rehabilitate river transport and ACCF opera-
tions. The program is expected to be completed in 1978 and will be submitted
to the Association for comment. The program is expected to concentrate on
improving management (possibly providing additional technical assistance)and
on improving maintenance and utilization of ACCF and Bangui port facilities.
Highway Sector Lending
2.16      The current situation in the C.A.E. does not permit the sector lend-
ing approach for transport. The sector's capabilities are too limited due
to basic shortcomings such as a lack of qualified staff with managerial cap-
ability, as demonstrated in the execution of the previous road maintenance
program, and a severe shortage of local funds for all economic sectors.
Therefore, a project-by-project approach will remain the appropriate form
of lending for the C.A.E. in the foreseeable future.



3. HIGHWAYS
A.   The Network
3.01      There are about 11,000 km of classified primary and secondary roads
of which only about 300 km are paved (Table 1). The remainder are gravel or
earth roads of generally low design standards, and some of these are periodi-
cally closed during the rainy season. There are also about 11,000 km of
unclassified feeder roads and tracks connecting areas of agricultural activity.
The Directorate General of Public Works (DGPW) in the Ministry of Public Works
is responsible for the entire network of about 22,000 km (para. 3.07).
3.02      The C.A.E.'s road network is generally adequate in extent and serves
all populated areas in the country. Primary roads have been inadequately
maintained (para. 3.18), while secondary and feeder roads have deteriorated
due to the complete lack of maintenance over the past several years. Further-
more, about 30 bridges on the trunk road network are damaged or unuseable and
require urgent reconstruction which is partly underway (para. 3.11). The
terrain in the country, with some exceptions in the north, is generally easy,
and natural road construction materials are available.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.03      Traffic density patterns follow the location of economic activity
in the south and southwest. Transport demand is seasonal because of the pre-
dominance of agriculture. Collection of traffic data is the responsibility of
the DGPW, but traffic counts so far have been carried out only for selected
roads whose reconstruction is planned by the Government in the draft plan.
A counting system to cover the entire primary road network has not yet been
established. Based on export/import and transit traffic volumes and on
estimates of internal production, the total tonnage transported in the C.A.E.
is estimated now at about 350,000 tons per annum.
3.04      The available data on the motor vehicle fleet indicate an annual
rate of increase of 8% in the period 1971-1975 (Table 5). In 1975 the fleet
consisted of about 14,700 units of which about 80% were light vehicles.
Although the fleet might have been overestimated due to inadequate data
collecting (vehicles no longer in use might have been kept in), the existing
truck fleet was more than adequate to serve past requirements. However, the
trend towards increasing use of the Cameroon route will require some change in
fleet structure and further increase in trailers' capacity, which grew at 18%
per year in this period. Lack of data (such as fuel consumption) prevents a
more accurate estimate of average traffic growth on the network. The estimate
made by consultants in 1969 of 8% per year now appears high and does not
follow the recent performance of C.A.E.'s economy. It is more reasonable to
assume that average annual traffic growth is currently in the vicinity of 5%.



- 8-
C.   The Road Transport Industry
3.05      Public freight transport is handled by the Office National
d'Affretement (ONAF), a state-owned company with administrative and financial
autonomy, and by numerous private transporters. ONAF was created in 1969
and is under the authority of the Ministry of Transport (MT). Its fleet is
steadily growing and in 1976 reached 180 trucks and trailers with total
payload capacity of 2,200 tons. ONAF has somewhat improved its management
and eliminated its past deficit. It has a privileged position and controls
most road freight transport except cotton and timber. Over 30% of total road
freight traffic (other than cotton and timber) is carried directly by ONAF.
Urban and interurban passenger transport is handled by the Compagnie Nationale
de Transport Routier (CNTR), a state-owned company under the authority of MT,
and by about 50 individual transporters.
3.06      The majority of public freight transport is handled by more than 50
private transporters, who are required to obtain licenses from the MT (valid
one year). MT also provides authorization for the purchase of commercial
vehicles. Private transporters are organized in the Groupement des Transpor-
teurs Centrafricain (GTC), a private organization which represents its members
in dealing with Government organizations (including ONAF). The trucking in-
dustry is divided between ONAF and GTC. Public transporters are required to
obtain authorization from ONAF for each freight transport; this is routinely
provided. For its organizational role in transport distribution and services,
ONAF charges GTC 7% of its total net annual revenue. Although the justifica-
tion of this arrangement could be questioned, the situation in the freight
transport industry appears fairly reasonable since ONAF is trying to achieve
more efficient allocation of freight transport. In order to pursue this
policy, ONAF is planning to open offices in the interior. Further analysis,
however, of the organization of the industry is needed. The present tariffs,
which were set in 1975, are within the tariff range in the African Region
(CFAF 14-24 per ton/km). The tariff for general merchandise is CFAF 18 per
ton/km, while for special commodities (fuel, cotton, foodstuffs) the tariff
is lower, ranging from CFAF 13-15 per ton/km.
D.   Administration
3.07      DGPW is responsible for the administration, design, construction and
maintenance of the primary road system, government buildings and river works.
DGPW's jurisdiction was extended in October 1975 when it took over about 17,000
km of the secondary and feeder roads and tracks from Genie Rural and was made
responsible for their maintenance. DGPW consists of three directorates and
a laboratory (see chart). The Directorate of Planning and Construction has
three divisions which are responsible for studies and planning, supervision of
new road construction, and building works. The Directorate of Road and River
Maintenance is in charge of maintenance operations and the management of
DGPW's equipment pool. This directorate has four divisions, two of which
constitute its field organization covering two regional districts, each
divided into four sub-divisions. The other two divisions are in charge of



- 9 -
equipment and workshops, and of river works. The Directorate of Administra-
tive and Financial Services is responsible for overall administrative and
financial matters and staff training. The DGPW laboratory carries out soil
surveys and soil and materials tests for highway design and construction.
3.08      All three divisions of the Directorate of Planning and Construction
are staffed exclusively by French technical experts. Twenty-two engineers
and technicians, who are provided under a long-standing FAC technical assis-
tance program, operate this directorate efficiently. The Directorate of
Road and River Maintenance is inadequately staffed by local technical per-
sonnel, consisting of one engineer and about a dozen technicians. Adequately
maintaining the entire road network, for which the DGPW is responsible, is
beyond the directorate's present capability. The Directorate of Administrative
and Financial Services is also staffed by local personnel with the exception
of the EDF-financed training school which employs three expatriate training
officers. The DGPW laboratory is staffed by two French expatriates, one local
engineer and two local technicians; it has the technical competence to perform
its duties, but its facilities and equipment are obsolete and incomplete.
3.09      Except for the Planning and Construction Directorate, the DGPW's
staffing situation is unsatisfactory, especially in the Road and River Main-
tenance Directorate where a serious shortage of specialized staff exists.
Most of the managerial and technical competence depends on the FAC technical
assistance program, and the continuation of this assistance, particularly
for the Planning and Construction Directorate, is crucial to the DGPW's
overall operation. French authorities have indicated, in discussions, that
this assistance will continue.
3.10      In DGPW, there is a program to provide civil engineering training
to nationals at different levels. About 10 Central Africans are studying
engineering in Europe, and an equal number of higher grade technicians are
receiving advanced training in Europe, Ivory Coast and Senegal. There are
about 80 students training as lower grade technicians in Chad and Mali. In
addition, an EDF-financed training school was established in Bangui in 1974
with an output of about 40 civil works inspectors, foremen and mechanics in
each two-year cycle. EDF support will continue until 1980. Although the
training efforts seem to be well organized, it is unlikely that they will
result in any significant additions to DGPW's staff.
E.   Planning and Financing
3.11      The draft plan for the highway sector (Table 4) includes upgrading
major primary roads, reconstruction of about 30 bridges scattered in different
regions and a maintenance program for secondary and feeder roads. The highest
priority is given to the construction of Bangui-Bossembele-Cameroon Border
road (595 km). The draft plan also includes construction of M'Baiki-Mongoumba
road (115 km), as well as improvement of C.A.E.'s section of the Trans-African
Highway (pavement strengthening of Bangui-Damara 68 km and construction of
Sibut-Bambari-Bangassou road 553 km). In addition the draft plan also envis-
ages the construction or improvement of about 600 km of other trunk roads.
However, implementation of the plan is proceeding slowly; at present only six



- 10 -
of the 30 bridges are being reconstructed under the first phase of an EDF
program. In the second phase, EDF would continue with the bridge projects
and would finance pavement strengthening of the Bangui-Damara road. On
the Association's request, a four-year maintenance program of the primary
road network, to be financed by foreign aid, has also been included (paras.
3.22-3.27).
3.12      The draft plan, calling for construction or improvement of more
than 1,900 km of roads in 5 years, is unrealistic, and it seems unlikely that
financing for the entire program will be obtained. Since the transport demand
in C.A.E. is, with some exceptions, generally low, major investments in road
construction are not economically justified. A more realistic approach would
be to limit construction plans to the high priority road to Cameroon, the
projects under the above EDF program (para. 3.11) and the maintenance program
to preserve the primary network from further deterioration (paras. 3.22-3.27).
3.13      Highway expenditures are financed from two sources:  the national
budget and foreign aid (principally from EDF, FAC and the Bank Group).
Current and capital road expenditures in 1971-1975 totalled about CFAF 9.4
billion (US$38.5 million equivalent) of which CFAF 5.5 billion (US$22.4
million) or about 60% was spent on investment and the rest on road mainte-
nance (Table 6).
3.14      Road users contribute to the national budget through taxes levied
on fuel (CFAF 32/litre on gasoline, CFAF 13/litre on diesel oil), taxes and
duties on imported vehicles and spare parts, and taxes for vehicle registra-
tion, licensing and inspection, and road tolls. Total revenues from all
road user sources over the period 1973-1975 amounted to about CFAF 3.6 bil-
lion (US$14.7 million equivalent) (Table 7). Government expenditures for
the highway sector over the same period were much less, totalling about
CFAF 1.2 billion (US$4.9 million).
3.15      The most important source of revenue from road users is the taxes
levied on fuel, which amounted to more than CFAF 700 million in 1975. Ac-
cording to the covenants (Sections 4.03 and 4.04) in the Development Credit
Agreement of the Second Highway Project (Credit 199-CA), as much revenue as
needed for adequate maintenance should be allocated annually from fuel taxes
to the Road Fund, which was established in 1971. If these revenues are not
sufficient to provide necessary maintenance funds, the Government should
increase budgetary allocations to the Road Fund by means of fuel tax increases
or other measures. In practice, however, the funds allocated annually for
road maintenance are only about half the revenue from fuel taxes (Tables 6
and 7) and consequently maintenance is neglected. The Government acknowledges
the inadequacy of the maintenance budget and funding, and after a recent review
of the matter, confirmed that it would allocate CFAF 500 million in 1977, and
at least the same amount annually thereafter, to a special account in a local
bank. This Road Fund account will be operated by the Ministry of Public Works
and the funds will be used exclusively for maintenance operations.



- 11 -
F.   Engineering and Construction
3.16      DGPW's Planning and Construction Directorate prepares designs for
minor road improvement works and simple bridge structures; design for major
projects is done by foreign consultants. At present, C.A.E. has not estab-
lished its own set of highway design standards, and French practices and
design techniques are widely used. The Directorate of Planning and Construc-
tion has prepared bridge loading regulations, vehicle regulations, some
typical construction specifications and conditions of contract, all based
on French practice.
3.17      The domestic construction industry is small and at an early stage
of development. In building construction, there are several local contrac-
tors who can compete with foreign firms. Two or three local contracting firms
have experience in constructing minor bridges. There are no local contractors
specializing in roadworks or capable of undertaking a sizeable road contract;
all major road construction work to date has been done by foreign contractors.
All road projects except for the Bangui-M'Baiki road (IDA Credit 146-CA) have
been done under the auspices of EDF or FAC. As a result, only contractors of
the EEC countries have been employed.
G.   Maintenance
3.18      Maintenance of the primary and secondary highways is handled by the
Directorate of Road and River Maintenance through two regional divisions and
eight subdivisions. Each subdivision is responsible for routine maintenance
operations which are carried out by its own field staff of "cantonniers" and
some equipment. In addition, there are two heavy equipment units engaged in
maintenance and rehabilitation works. DGPW is in charge of one unit, which
is assigned to Garoua Boulai on the road to the Cameroon border. Since most
of DGPW's equipment provided under the IDA Second Highway Project is not
operational and requires rehabilitation, the unit, engaged in road regravel-
ling works, has been strengthened by a new fleet of 15 trucks recently
procured by the Government on a supplier's credit. However, the unit is
experiencing operational difficulties, including a continuous shortage of
recurrent funds for fuel and lubricants, and lack of spare parts and of
trained personnel. The second heavy equipment unit, established by FAC in
1975 to assist DGPW in carrying out road rehabilitation works, is engaged in
regravelling primary roads in the forestry region of Berberati in the western
district. It is equipped with US$1.5 million worth of equipment, and its
operations are fully financed and supervised by FAC. The unit operates suc-
cessfully but DGPW has little say in its management and no attempt is being
made to develop a C.A.E. team to eventually take over the operation.
3.19      The four-year maintenance program (IDA Credit 199-CA) provided
equipment and technical assistance. Continuous lack of Government funds for
purchase of fuel, lubricants and spares slowed the works and made it necessary
to reduce the scope of operations several times during the project period.
Although the project achieved very little in physical terms and in training
of personnel, it made the Government aware of the importance of regular main-
tenance works. In DGPW there is no doubt about the necessity of an adequate
country-wide maintenance program, but Government budgetary constraints prevent
its implementation. On the Association's request, the Government recently



- 12 -
reviewed the matter and committed itself to execute a four-year maintenance
program on selected primary roads (paras. 3.22-3.27) in cooperation with
foreign donors.
3.20      Highway maintenance is a chronic problem in C.A.E.  Most roads
have developed from tracks and have sub-standard formation and inadequate
drainage, making maintenance difficult. In 1975 some 17,000 km of secondary
and feeder roads and tracks were added to DGPW's maintenance responsibility
but without corresponding budgetary support. Existing equipment, most of
which is either obsolete or non-operational because of the lack of spare
parts, was insufficient for the work. In 1977 the Government procured new
maintenance equipment (US$650,000) and a fleet of 50 tippers and 10 tankers
(US$4.5 million) on supplier's credits; the equipment is being delivered.
However, the tippers and the tankers are huge, and their suitability for DGPW
maintenance opeations is still to be proved. In general, the lack of trained
supervisors, operators and mechanics is clearly evident in the organization
and quality of the maintenance work carried out by DGPW. Although budgetary
constraints are severe, the Government has established a clear policy on
maintenance of primary roads by approving and participating in the foreign-
assisted four-year maintenance program.
3.21      Expenditures for routine maintenance and administration are provided
by the national budget, while a limited amount for heavy maintenance is pro-
vided by FAC. The amounts allocated to the Ministry of Public Works for
highway maintenance represent about 2.5% of Government's total current ex-
penditures. This is comparable with most of the countries in the West Africa
Region (average allocation is 2-3%), but the amounts actually made available
(always less than budgeted) and spent on highway maintenance have been insuf-
ficient to meet the requirements (Table 6).
3.22      In view of the inadequate road maintenance, the Association advised
the Government in May 1976 that the financing of the proposed project was
contingent upon the Government's arranging for the establishment of a minimum
road maintenance program supported by foreign financial and technical assis-
tance. The Government accepted the Association's condition and requested
assistance from potential foreign donors. After lengthy preparatory discus-
sions, the Government invited the potential donors, namely EDF, FAC and FRG,
to meet in Bangui in April 1977. At the meeting, the Government confirmed
that it assigned the highest priority to the Bangui-Bossembele road project
and assured the foreign donors of its willingness to start and actively par-
ticipate in a highway maintenance program. The Government reached preliminary
agreement with EDF, FAC and FRG on the arrangements for the program (paras.
3.23-3.29), which were satisfactory to the Association. Later, in April and
May 1978, Government signed agreements with EDF and FAC on specific programs,
stipulating the scope of the programs; the Government's signing an agreement
with FRG will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit.
3.23      The assistance for highway maintenance is expected to start in the
fall of 1978. It would mobilize the Government's idle maintenance organiza-
tion to execute routine maintenance operations on the priority road network
(including the IDA-financed Bangui-M'Baiki road) using its field staff of
"cantonniers" and existing equipment. To make DGFW's maintenance organization



- 13 -
productive, the Government allocated CFAF 500 million (US$2.0 million) in 1978
and will allocate at least the same amount annually for the next three years
to a special Road Fund account in a local bank. This account is managed by
the Ministry of Public Works and the funds are used exclusively for mainte-
nance operations, namely wages of "cantonniers", fuel and lubricants, spare
parts, and materials. The Government intends to rehabilitate some existing
maintenance equipment and to use funds from the 1978 budget to purchase spare
parts. Using the rehabilitated equipment, the Government intends to launch
maintenance operations in parallel with the program of foreign donors (para.
3.24). Also, the Government signed a contract with consultants Louis Berger
(USA) to execute a highway maintenance study which started in November, 1977;
the final report should be available in late 1978.
3.24      External donor agencies will assist the Government by providing and
operating independently: (a) one rehabilitation and one light equipment unit
(provided by FAC and FRG), and (b) one heavy equipment unit (provided by EDF).
The units will carry out periodic maintenance, i.e. regravelling and rod
reshaping works, on the Bossembele-Garoua Boulai section of the most important
route from Bangui to Cameroon and on other selected high priority primary
roads. The present FAC unit will also be engaged in maintenance works after
completion of its current rehabilitation project by 1979. Although such a
program will cover only 640 km of the primary road network (para. 3.27), its
objectives would be the initiation of proper maintenance operations in the
country and gradually increased efforts by the Government.
3.25      In addition to providing one heavy maintenance unit for regravelling
works and operational costs for four years, EDF assistance will include con-
tinuation of the existing EDF training school (reorienting the program towards
highway maintenance) and services of technical experts, namely an expatriate
coordinator for the overall maintenance program and mechanical experts for
rehabilitation of Government's existing equipment. The EDF assistance will
start in 1978 with continuation of the training school, recruitment of the
coordinator (to be placed in DGPW as Assistant Director in October 1978) and
other expatriates, and with procurement of equipment for the heavy unit imme-
diately thereafter. The EDF assistance to the program would total CFAF 1.2
billion (US$5.0 million). EDF will also direct the overall foreign-assisted
maintenance program; their experts will work closely with Government personnel
both at managerial level and in the field. Government workshops and spare
parts will be used to rehabilitate the existing equipment with the help of
expatriates. This could be a good continuation of a working relationship
between foreign and local staff.
3.26      To form a rehabilitation unit FAC will provide in the fall of 1978
part of the equipment and funds to cover its operating expenditures for two
years; totaling CFAF 175 million (US$0.7 million). FRG will provide the other
part of the equipment and funds for operational expenditures for up to four
years, totaling CFAF 294 million (US$1.2 million). In 1979 FAC will provide
one light unit and its existing heavy unit at Berberati would also be used
for maintenance program operations, after the work at Berberati is finished.
Providing program performance is satisfactory, FAC would most likely continue



- 14 -
financing operating expenditures of the units after the initial two years.
Both FAC and FRG have agreed to EDF's managing the overall program and to
Government personnel's participation in the operations for training purposes.
3.27      The road network to be maintained under the program and the dis-
position of particular units used will be as follows:
(i) one heavy unit, provided by EDF in 1978, on regravelling
the Bossemtele-Garoua Boulai section (300 km) of the
road to Cameroon;
(ii)  one rehabilitation and one light unit, provided by FAC and
FRG in 1978, on regrading the Bossembele-Bossemtele section
(140 km) and maintaining the road to Cameroon; and
(iii) one heavy unit, which may eventually be provided by FAC in
1979 from the existing equipment at Berberati, on regravel-
ling of the Sibut-Bambari road (200 km).
Overall foreign aid will be about CFAF 1.7 billion (US$6.9 million) and the
primary network covered by the foreign-assisted maintenance program will total
640 km.
3.28      The extent of road network to be covered by the Government is not
yet known. The sections of roads to be maintained by the DGPW units will
be identified after the arrival of the EDF coordinator (para. 3.25) and after
the recommendations of the maintenance study (para. 3.23) are received.
However, the existing organization of "cantonniers", which is in charge of
daily routine maintenance operations, is spread throughout the whole country.
3.29      At the April 1977 meeting, the foreign donors discussed with the
Government its contribution to the Road Fund over the next four years. Gov-
ernment officials confirmed that CFAF 500 million (US$2.0 million) would be
allocated annually but were unable to indicate any likely increase above that
amount. The Government assured the foreign donors of its intention to continue
highway maintenance operations after the four-year program period and even-
tually to take over from foreign donors the management and financing of main-
tenance. However, the Government officials felt it was too early to formulate
a view on whether further foreign financial assistance would be needed.
3.30      The Association is satisfied with the arrangements made by the
foreign donors for road maintenance assistance with Government participation.
However, in view of the Government's current budgetary constraints, the Asso-
ciation will regularly review the status of the Government's contributions
to the maintenance program (para. 3.23). To attain this objective, the
Government and the Association have agreed on annual budgetary allocations
(1978-81) of CFAF 500 million for highway maintenance and on the timing of
their disbursement.



- 15 -
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The proposed project consists of the reconstruction of the Bangui-
Boali-Bossembele road (145 km) to two-lane bituminous sealed standard, in-
cluding engineering services by consultants, and of the laboratory services
for the supervision of construction works to be carried out by DGPW with the
assistance of FAC personnel.
4.02      The Bangui-Bossembele road is one of the three principal road
outlets from the capital, the other two being Bangui-M'Baiki road and Bangui-
Damara road. Of these three roads, only the Bangui-Bossembele road (see map)
is not bituminous sealed. The start of the existing road and of the project
is located north of Bangui at PK 11.5 on the Bangui-Damara road which was
built under FED financing in 1968. The volume of traffic on the Bangui-Damara
road is high, and its two-lane bituminous sealed carriageway in the section
near Bangui is in bad condition and requires pavement strengthening. The
Government has not yet found an external source of financing to improve 8 km
of the road. It agreed, however, that as a temporary solution a force account
unit of DGPW will carry out the most urgent repairs.
4.03      The first 84 km to Boali Post of the Bangui-Boali-Bossembele road
passes through low, flat terrain and rolling savanna at an average elevation
of 350 to 400 meters. From Boali Post the road follows hilly terrain for
about 6 km, crossing the steep escarpment of Boudou at PK 90. After Boali
Falls (PK 94) the road reaches a plateau (elevation over 600 meters) and
continues through rolling and occasionally hilly forest to the village of
Bossembele (PK 157). The total length of the existing road is 148 km. The
present Bangui-Bossembele road is an all-weather road and is 5.0 to 5.5 meters
wide, with laterite surface. Despite the generally good condition of the
road, movements of heavy vehicles are restricted during the rainy season, with
all vehicles weighing over 2.5 t barred from using the road, usually for about
six hours after rain, to allow the carriageway to dry. The road was not en-
gineered and was constructed mainly by clearing and grubbing the ground and
spreading a layer of lateritic soil. As a result most of the road is at or
below the level of the surrounding ground and drainage is unsatisfactory.
However, its horizontal and vertical alignments, with some exception, are
adequate and allow reasonable travel speeds in dry weather.
4.04      There are two major river crossings on the existing road, M'Poko
River at PK 23.6 and M'Bali River at PK 57.4.  Both crossings are provided
with single-lane bridges, 73 meters and 55 meters long respectively. The
bridge structures are of reinforced concrete and are in satisfactory condi-
tion. The bridge at M'Bali River is, however, poorly sited with dangerous
curves at both approaches.



- 16 -
4.05      Geologically the basement of the savanna region in the Bangui-Boali
section is constituted of quartzite, diorite, conglomerate and sandstone for-
mations while quartzites and schists are found at the plateau of Bossembele.
These formations should provide suitable road pavement building materials,
and they seem to be available in adequate quantities and within reasonable
hauling distances. Subgrade soils are lateritic with a significant clay con-
tent. They exhibit high plasticity but do not swell and their permeability
is low. The subgrade bearing strengths are fairly high, with average CBR's
over 35%.
4.06      The proposed project road on the improved alignment will be 145 km
long and will be constructed to a two-lane bituminous sealed standard. It
will have a carriageway 6.0 m wide on a formation 8.0 m wide (Table 8). A
design speed of 80 km/h has been adopted for geometric design and a maximum
permissible single-axle load of 13 tons considered for pavement design. The
carriageway wearing-course will consist of a double bituminous surface treat-
ment on a base and sub-base course with an overall thickness of 30 cm. The
design standards (Table 8) are consistent with the projected traffic require-
ments, terrain configuration and general soil conditions in the area; they are
also in general accordance with the standards presently being considered by
the Trans African Highway Coordinating Committee. The proposed reconstruc-
tion includes provision of adequate drainage for the project road and the
construction of a two-lane bridge on a modified alignment at M'Bali River
crossing. The existing bridge at M'Poko River will remain in use.
4.07      The feasibility study and the detailed engineering for the recon-
struction of the Bangui-Bossembele road were prepared by consultants Louis
Berger (USA) and financed under the Second Highway Project (Credit 199-CA).
The study was completed in June 1972. The detailed engineering was deferred
due to low traffic volume at that time, but was completed in October 1975
and submitted, together with the bidding documents, to the Association for
review and approval. Recently some minor work has been done to finalize
detailed engineering and bidding documents. The DGPW employed Louis Berger
(USA) to carry out this work together with the prequalification of contrac-
tors and the evaluation of bids, which was completed in April 1978.
B. Cost Estimates
4.08      The total project cost (construction period 1978-1981) is estimated
at US$25.7 million equivalent, net of identifiable taxes and duties; foreign
costs amount to US$22.4 million (87%) and local costs amount to US$3.3 million
equivalent (13%). The Government has exempted the construction contract from
taxes and duties, which woul  total about US$3.6 million equivalent.  Earth-
works average about 5,500 m /km and reconstruction cost per kilometer is
about US$170,000 including physical and price contingencies. Details of cost
estimates (in first quarter of 1978 prices) are given below:



- 17 -
-CFAF Million-- -          ------US$'000-------    Foreign
as %
Foreign  Local  Total   Foreign   Local   Total  of Total
A.  Reconstruction
of Bangui-
Bossembele Road    4,297.3   616.3 4,913.6  17,540   2,516   20,056    87
B.  Supervision of
Construction
Works (Labora-
tory services)         83.3    39.2   122.5       340      160      500    68
C.  Consulting Engi-
neering Services       34.3      7.4    41.7      140       30       170    82
Subtotal A&B&C      4,414.9   662.9 5,077.8  18,020   2,706   20,726    87
D. Contingencies
(i) Quantities
(10%)             429.7    61.6   491.3   1,755       252    2,007    87
(ii) Prices/i          634.2    88.1   722.3   2,589        359    2,948    87
Subtotal D          1,063.9   149.7 1,213.6   4,344        611    4,955    87
TOTAL                   5,478.8   812.6 6,291.4  22,364   3,317   25,681    87
ROUNDED                 5,500      800   6,300    22,400   3,300   25,700
(Total including        5,478.8 1,680.3 7,159.1  22,364   6,859   29,223    77
taxes)
/A   Price escalation is estimated at 8% in 1978, 7.5% in 1979, 7% in 1980
and 1981.
4.09      Costs for reconstruction of the Bangui-Bossembele road are con-
sultants' detailed engineering design rates of September 1975, which have
been updated. Quantity contingencies of 10% have been allowed; as of 1978,
price variation is estimated at 8% for 1979 and 7.5% for 1979 and 7% onwards.
Supervision of project construction works will be by DGPW with the help of
FAC experts, and their cost is excluded from the above supervision estimate,
which includes the costs of soils and materials laboratory services (salaries
of expatriate and local personnel, wages of local labor, and overheads). A
minor sum is also included for consulting engineering services for the final-
ization of detailed engineering, prequalification of contractors and evalua-
tion of bids.



- 18 -
4.10      The most efficient way of executing the construction has been
reviewed in detail. Although local labor is available in Bangui and wages
are extremely low, labor is scarce and difficult to organize outside the
capital. In order to employ local labor, the contractor would have to pro-
vide the transport from Bangui at its own expense, accommodation, etc.,
which would increase the local labor costs, making labor intensive methods
for this project uneconomical.
4.11      The foreign exchange component in the estimate (para. 4.08) amounts
to 87% of total costs net of taxes and duties, or to 77% of total costs, taxes
and duties included. The high proportion of foreign cost results from the
necessity to import all contractor's plant, qualified personnel and skilled
labor, and nearly all materials.  The provision of equipment, its transport
to Bangui, a major part of its operating expenses and its low residual value
after contract completion (due to non-continuity of work) all contribute to
high foreign costs. Nearly all materials are to be imported with the excep-
tion of aggregates and timber, the processing of which also involves foreign
cost. The local component consists mainly of local labor costs. The general
shortage of skilled labor in C.A.E. makes it a special case since equipment
operators and drivers must be hired abroad and expatriate mechanics must be
used to supervise local mechanics. The cost estimate and assessment of its
foreign and local components were prepared on the basis of results of inter-
national competitive bidding. The proportion of foreign and local components
of total construction costs are comparable to those for a recently completed
project, Damara-Sibut road (EDF financing, 1975).
C. Execution
4.12      Execution of the project will be the responsbility of the DGPW,
assisted by consultants in finalizing preparation and by FAC experts already
assigned to DGPW in supervising construction works. Two engineers and two
technicians, to be provided by FAC, will be needed. The Government has agreed
to these arrangements. DGPW will provide supervision team support services
and laboratory services.
4.13      The reconstruction works will be done by unit price contracts,
the award of which will follow ICB in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
To enable participation of local firms in bidding for bridgeworks, the project
works have been split into two lots i.e. roadworks for the entire road and
bridgeworks for the new structure over M'Bali River. Ten firms, (six firms
from France, one each from Italy and Ivory Coast, one French/German joint
venture, and one joint venture of a French and a domestic firm) have been
prequalified for both lots, and one local firm for the bridgeworks contract
only. Separate bids for each contract or a combined bid for both contracts
were invited at the same time. In order to ensure the most realistic estimate
of total project cost, bids for the work were received and analysed prior to
submitting the project to the Association's Board of Executive Directors. Of
the 11 firms prequalified, 4 contractors submitted bids for roadworks and 3
contractors tendered for bridgeworks. The Government proposes to award the
contracts to the lowest evaluated bidders, i.e. a French firm for roadworks



- 19 -
and a local firm for bridgeworks. Contracts for construction are to be
awarded in September 1978; works are due to start in October 1978 and to
take about two and a half years to complete.
4.14      Government is committed to finance part of the local project costs.
In view of its tight fiscal situation, however, cofinancing was arranged in
order to cover almost the entire net-of-tax cost from external sources. At
Government request the Association helped in making final arrangements with
co-donors.
D.   Financing and Disbursements
4.15      The proposed project will be jointly financed by an IDA Credit of
US$15.5 million and contributions by the Government and other co-financers of
about US$10.2 million equivalent. The proposed financing plan (net of taxes)
has been prepared in agreement with the Government and donors.
Financing Plan (in US$'000)
Foreign        Local         Total
1.   IDA                                     13,700          1,800         15,500
2.   Kuwait Fund                              3,600            -            3,600
3.   African Development Fund                 5,100            500          5,600
4.   Government of CAE                                                      1,000
TOTAL                                   22,400          3,300         25,700
A condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit will be the Government
signing co-financing agreements with Kuwait Fund and AfDF.
4.16      The proposed Credit will finance a major part of the foreign cost
component; disbursement rates will be as follows:
(i) reconstruction of Bangui-
Bossembele road:                    60% of total cost;
(ii)  supervision of civil works          100% of foreign cost and 55%
(laboratory services)              of local cost;
(iii)  consulting engineering services:  100% of foreign cost.
Tables 9 and 10 show the estimated schedule of disbursements from the Govern-
ment's contribution and from IDA's Credit.
4.17      The Government has employed consultants to complete detailed
engineering, prequalify contractors and to evaluate of bids prior to Board
consideration of the proposed project. It has requested the Association
to consider retroactive financing of expenditures incurred for this purpose.
It is recommended that the Association approve retroactive financing for
such expenditures up to US$140,000.



- 20 -
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
5.01      The Government's development strategy is based to a significant
degree upon improving C.A.E.'s transport links to the ocean. Its objective
expressed as a priority in the draft plan is to improve the land route to
Cameroon. The C.A.E.'s export/import traffic via Cameroon has been gradually
increasing, and it is estimated that in 1976 it exceeded 20,000 tons.
5.02      Presently, the road section in the C.A.E. (595 km) is an earth
road of low standard (with the exception of about 11 km of paved road from
Bangui), creating high vehicle operating costs and making passage difficult
for heavy vehicles particularly in the rainy season. The proposed project
consists of improvement to two-lane paved standard for the first part of
the C.A.E. section, Bangui-Bossembele (145 km). For improvement of the
remaining part (440 km), the Government requested EDF and AfDB assistance,
but no agreement has yet been reached. The proposed minimum maintenance
program (para. 3.23) would, however, provide adequate maintenance of the
existing road to the Cameroon border.
B.   Regional Development
5.03      The first section (82 km) of the Bangui-Bossembele road connects
the capital with Boali, a place of important economic activity with a tex-
tile factory and power plant completed in 1976. The second section (63 km)
extends to more populated Bossembele, the administrative center of the region
where agriculture is the main economic activity. The Government's objective
in agriculture is to develop import substituting products and export crops
in order to reduce the balance of payments deficit. In 1976, agricultural
production in the road zone exceeded 25,000 tons, consisting mainly of manioc,
fruits and groundnuts; land under cultivation (more than 26,000 ha) and
production volumes are expected to increase following construction of the
project road. In the road zone there is also a fruit juice factory with 6,000
tons of annual capacity. A cotton development scheme (north of Bossembele) of
about 25,000 ha financed by EDF is underway. The project road will also serve
the area which is the object of a regional development effort in livestock-
raising on 24,000 ha, 55 km north of Bangui. It is anticipated that this
project, expected to start in 1978 with AfDB financing, will decrease beef
imports from Chad and Sudan. In addition, it is probable that by 1980/81
an additonal 180,000 tons per year will be transported via the project road
between Cameroon (port of Douala) and Bakouma (600 km east of Bangui), if
a uranium mine project is realized. Since this is uncertain, the additional
traffic was not taken into account in the economic evaluation.
5.04      The proposed road project, as one of the major trunk roads in
the country with significant local traffic, will have a positive impact on
development over a wider area than just the immediate road zone. Bangui-
Bossembele road is the first leg of C.A.E.'s important alternate route to the



- 21 -
ocean (through Cameroon) which is gaining in importance. Although in 1976 the
route carried about 10% of C.A.E. export/import traffic, it can reasonably be
assumed that after improvements in C.A.E. the route will carry over 40% of
total external traffic in the next 15 years (para. 2.05). Bangui-Bossembele
road is also part of the Trans-Equatorial route serving landlocked Chad as
well. Part of Chad's external traffic (about 35,000 tons in 1976) has been
using the route via Moundou-Bossangoa-Bossembele-Bangui to Oubangui river
(about eight trucks/day on average). In addition to routes through Nigeria
and Cameroon, the Trans-Equatorial route is an important link, particularly
for the southern part of Chad, not only for cotton export but also for various
imports (fuel, cement and other processed goods). The road is also part of
the Trans-African highway connecting Lagos with Mombasa, whose importance will
grow as the highway is built. The contribution of the project road to the
economic development of the region and the country, therefore, is complex,
since the artery will carry traffic related to various aspects of economic
activity. It will also ease passenger movement to and from Bangui towards the
north and west of the country. Development of the region where the project
road is situated will be, therefore, the joint product of agriculture programs,
transport improvements and a number of other interacting development activities.
C. Traffic
5.05      The traffic on the road was regularly counted in the period 1971-
1975. It showed a steady growth of 7% annually but the traffic volumes were
not evenly distributed. In 1975, the average traffic on the first section was
about 145 vehicles per day (vpd) and on the second section about 90 vpd. The
traffic after Bossembele gradually decreased to about 25 vpd at Garoua-Boulai
(Cameroon Border).
5.06      The traffic composition on the project road in 1975 showed a signif-
icant share of heavy vehicles, particularly high on the second section; on the
first section trucks and trailers made up about 43% of traffic, while on the
second section about 56%.  The traffic structure is explained by the important
share of long distance export/import traffic on the road to the port of Bangui
and in the opposite direction to Cameroon and Chad.
5.07      At the beginning of 1981 when the project road is expected to be
completed, on the basis of past growth normal traffic on the first section
would reach about 198 vpd and on the second about 120 vpd; the share of inter-
national long-distance traffic to Cameroon is estimated at about 16 trucks and
trailers per day. However, due to the substantial savings in vehicle operat-
ing costs (para. 5.09), the anticipated increase in agricultural activity in
the road zone and the experience of substantial build-up of additional traffic
after paving a road in the C.A.E., the project road is expected to generate
a significant volume of additional traffic amounting to about 35% of normal
traffic. Only a minor share, 10% of the generated traffic, is attributed to
an increase in international traffic via Cameroon; the traffic to and from
Chad is not expected to increase in volume. Total traffic after the road is
constructed is estimated at about 265 vpd on the first section and about 160
vpd on the second section.  In the first 10 years of the road's economic life,



- 22 -
average growth of normal traffic is estimated at 7% p.a., tapering off there-
after to 6% p.a.; the generated traffic growth was assumed at 5% during the
entire economic life (Annex 1). The traffic forecast is generally consistent
with the past development on the project road, as well as with traffic growth
on the existing paved roads in the country.
D.   Economic Return
5.08       The basic economic return from paving the project road was estimated
on the basis of benefits from: (a) savings in vehicle operating costs (voc)
for normal traffic, (b) benefits from generated traffic, and (c) maintenance
cost savings and distance savings (the project road is shorter by 2.5 km).
Benefits from time savings and accident reduction were omitted from the cal-
culation.
5.09       The economic cost of the road construction is about CFAF 4,458
million (US$18.2 million) in mid-1977 prices and is based on the results
of ICB spread over three years (1978-80). Costs also include supervision and
consulting engineering services; physical contingencies of 10% of construction
cost were also included in a separate test (Annex 1).   Estimated vehicle
operating costs for different vehicle classes range between CFAF 29.4-130.8/km
(12-53 USc/mile) on paved road, which is about 35-42% less than estimated voc
on the existing road (Table 11). In the economic analysis it was anticipated,
however, that voc on the paved road would increase somewhat due to expected
insufficient maintenance. The quantified anticipated benefits together with
capital expenditures were discounted over the life of the project, taken as
20 years (1981-2000).
5.10       The results of the economic analysis are summarized in Table 12.
The economic return for paving Bangui-Bossembele road is 12%, the return
for the first section is 13% and for the second, 11%. The first year return
for the first section is over 10% and for the second section over 8%. The
incremental return for paving the second section now as compared to construc-
tion in stages starting from improved gravel standards is about 11% (Annex 1).
E.   Sensitivity Analysis
5.11      The various components of the economic evaluation have not been
estimated with equal degree of reliability. There is a risk of shortfall
in the estimated benefits particularly if the generated traffic (which con-
tributes about 12% of total benefits) does not materialize. Taking the two
sections separately, if benefits are reduced by 15%, the economic return
drops to as low as 9% for one section, still within the range of opportunity
cost of capital in C.A.E., estimated at 9-10%. Eventual diversion of Chad
traffic (para. 5.04) from the road would have an insignificant effect on
economic return since on average only about eight trucks per day carry Chad
traffic. The sensitivity analysis shows that with the combination of unfavor-
able assumptions (10% increase in cost combined with a 10% decrease in bene-
fits), the rate of return may go as low as 9% (Table 12).



- 23 -
F. Distribution of Benefits
5.12      The bulk of project benefits is reduced transport costs.  Private car
and truck owners would benefit directly from reduced vehicle operating costs.
Some benefits are expected to be passed on to passengers since there is some
competition in inter-urban passenger transport. A part of the benefits would
accrue to the government-owned transport companies. There will also be direct
benefits to the farmers: The new road will provide them a faster and more
reliable link and will eliminate dust pollution for settlements along the
road. The project is also expected to promote increased agricultural produc-
tion (in the road zone), particularly food crops for Bangui, and to benefit
the economy as a whole by improving this important export/import outlet. It
is difficult, however, to quantify how project benefits would diffuse to the
Government, among the population and different economic sectors.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      The following principal items have been discussed and agreed upon
with the Government, and specified as covenants in the Credit Agreement:
(i) the Government will prepare, as soon as possible, a
program to rehabilitate river transport and ACCF operations
(para. 2.15);
(ii)  an annual highway maintenance budget of CFAF 500 million
and a schedule of disbursement for a four-year period
(1978-81) (para. 3.30);
(iii) improvement of the first 8 km of the existing Bangui-Damara
road, between Bangui and the beginning of the project road,
to be undertaken by DGPW (para. 4.02);
(iv)  the construction project will be exempt from local taxes
and duties (para. 4.08);
(v) arrangements for supervision of construction works and
availability of a team of qualified experts financed by
FAC (two engineers and two technicians) through the project
construction period (para. 4.12); and
(vi)  a coordinated financing plan for the Government, the
co-financers and IDA (para. 4.15, Table 9).
6.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit will be the Gov-
ernment's signing (i) co-financing agreements with the Kuwait Fund and AfDF
(para. 4.15), and (ii) an agreement for financing the highway maintenance
program with FRG (para. 3.22).
6.03      Agreement having been reached on the issues set forth in para. 6.01,
the proposed project is suitable for a Credit of US$15.5 million to the Gov-
ernment of Central African Empire on standard IDA terms.



-  24  -                   Table I
C.A.E.
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Composition of the Highway Network in 1976
(km)
Surface Type
Gravel and    Unimproved
Total              partly impjyved  earth and
Length       Paved      earth-       tracks
A. Classified Network
Primary Roads                  4,350        290        4,060           -
Secondary Roads                6,300         -         3,440         2,860
B. Unclassified Network
Feeder Roads and Tracks       11,300         -           -          11,300
Total                     21,950        290       7,500        14,160
1/ All-weather roads
Source: Ministry of Public Works, March 1977
May, 1977



-  25  -
Table 2
C.A.E.
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic Development in River Ports 1970-1975
(in 000 tons)
1970      1971       1972       1973       1974       1975
A. Port of Bangui
Imports           192.9      160.1      132.2      129.2      122.5      113.6
Exports            74.2       62.6       57.1       55.8       53.4       52.4
Total         267.1      222.7      189.3      185.0      175.9     166.0
B. Port of Zinga
Imports             -         14.3        2.3        1.5        0.5        0.4
Exports             -         34.8       74.0       87.6       42.5       27.5
Total                     49.1       76.3       89.1      43.0       27.9
Source: Ministry of Land and River Transport
May, 1976



-  26  -
Table 3
C.A. E.
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Investments in the Transport Sector During
1971 - 1975 Plan!/
(in CFAF Millions)
Total
Originally                                        Actual       Rate
Planned                                         Investmients    of
1971-1975   1971    1972  1973  1974    1975 (1971-1975)  Realization
Road Transport              7,680   1,408   1,293   570   815   1,410    5,496           71.6%
River Transport             1,748      41      179   380   882       527    2,009       115%
Air Transport               1,087     138       85    31    45        71      370        34%
Railway Infrastructure        500      -        -      -     10       17       27         5.4%
Total            11,015                                           7,902         72%
1/ Includes all Government investments and foreign credits and grants.
Source: Execution of the Five-Year Plan, Ministry of Planning, Bangui.
September 1976



-  27  -
Table 4
C.A.E.
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Draft Investment Program for the Transport
Sector in the new Five-Year Plan
197b6-1980
(in CFAF millions)
I. Road Infrastructure
1.  Paving of about 800 km of trunk roads1/                     26,100
2.  Reconstruction of about 30 bridges                             770
3.  Maintenance program of secondary and
feeder roads                                                 1,677
4.  Improvement of about 1,100 km of trunk roads                14,100
5.  Investments in O.N.A.F. and C.N.T.R. infra-
structure                                                      866
6.  Urban works in Bangui                                        4,000
Total      47,513
II. River Infrastructure
1.  ACCF Fleet                                                   2,720
2.  Bangui port infrastructure                                     610
3.  Other                                                          630
Total       3,960
III.  Air Transport Infrastructure
1.  Secondary airfields                                          2,866
2.  Installations at Bangui airport                              2,800
3.  Purchase of five airplanes                                   5,500
Total      11,166
IV.   Railway Infrastructure
(Studies and engineering)                                       2,820
GRAND TOTAL       65,459
1/ Includes: Bangui-Bossembele-Garoua Boulai (600 km);
Bangui-Damara (68 km); M'Baiki-Mongoumba (80 km);
Pissa-Bouchia (35 km).
Source: Ministry of Planning, Bangui, 1976
October 1976



- 28 -
Table 5
C.A.E.
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet Development 1971 - 1975"/
(Units)
Annual
Compound
Growth Rate
1971    1972    1973    1974    1975  in 1975   1971-1975
Passenger cars        5,139   5,644   6,093   6,504   6,912   47.0%           7.8%
Pick-ups              3,378   3,732   4,047   4,404   4,684   31.9%           8.6%
Trucks                1,740   1,949   2,136   2,280   2,396   16.3%           8.4%
Trailers                 85      99      119      148      165    1.1%       18.0%
Buses                   152     154      173      211      216    1.5%        9.1%
Special Vehicles        285     291      307      319     321    2.2%         3.2%
TOTAL          10,779  11,869  12,875  13,794  14,694    100%            8.0%
1/ Figures at the end of the year
Source: Ministry of Land and River Transport
May, 1976



- 29 -
Table 6
C.A.E.
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Expenditures- /1971 - 1975
(CFAF Million)
1971    1972   1973   1974   1975   TOTAL
I.  HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE
A. Government
1. National Budget
(i) Administration          n.a.     130    140    158    154         582
(ii) Maintenance             n.a.     200    106       75    211      592
Subtotal A:             n.a.    330    246    233    365   1,174
B.  Foreign                           283      434    247    525    110   1,599
Subtotal, A and B:    283        764    493    758    475   2,773
US$ Million Equiv-
alent 2/              1.2      3.1    2.0    3.1    1.9    11.3
II. HIGHWAY INVESTMENT
C.  Government                       694      414    307       -      n.a.  1,415
D.  Foreign                           714     880    293    815    n.a.  2,702
Subtotal, C and D:  1,408   1,294    600    815  1,410   5,527
US$ Million Equiv-
alent                 5.7      5.3    2.4    3.3    5.8    22.5
TOTAL, A,B,C and D  1,691   2,058  1,093  1,573  1,885   8,300
US$ Million Equiv-
alent                 6.9      8.4    4.5    6.4    7.7    33.9
1/ Actual expenditures, taxes included
2/ US$1.00=CFAF 245
Source: DGPW and mission estimates
October, 1976



-  30  -
Table 7
C.A.E.
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimates of Government Revenues from Road Users 1973-1975
(CFAF millions)
Taxes                         Vehicle                Vehicle
levied                          Regis-              Technical
Year      on Fuels -  Import  DutiesV2  tration  Licensing  Inspection TTolls3-   Total
Spare
Vehicles Parts
1973        690.0       350.0     93.0      118.5      50.0         5.2        7.0    1,313.7
1974        700.0       364.0    116.0      110.5      58.0         3.4        7.8    1,359.7
1975        715.0       n.a.     n.a.       103.9      64.o         3.5        7.6      894.0
1/ Revenues from Road Fund directed to general budget; taxes on gasoline CFAF32/1
(regular gasoline = CFAF 95/1) on diesel fuel CFAF 13/1
21 Import duties and taxes combined amount to: 70-90% for passenger cars, 48.5%
for pick-ups, 32-43% for trucks and 53% for spare parts, ad valorem
3/ Tolls vary between CFAF 50-100/vehicle depending on vehicle size; Government
vehicles are exempt
Source: Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Planning and Statistics, March 1976
May 1977



-  31  -
Table 8
C.A.E.
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
DesiRn Standards for Reconstruction of Bangui-Bossembele Road
Design Speed                       80 km/h
Pavement Width                     6.00 m
Formation Width                    8.00 m
Minimum Horizontal Radius:
Normal                        360 m
Exceptional                   190 m
Maximum Grade:
Normal                       6%
Exceptional                  7.5%
Pavement Design:
Standard Equivalent
Axle Load                    8.2 tons (18000 lb)
Bridge Design Loading:
French Standards
(Fascicule 61 du Cahier
Francais des Prescriptions
Communes)
Load Limit per Axle: 13 tons
Source: DGPW, Consultants Louis Berger (USA)
November, 1976



-  32  -
Table 9
C.A.E.
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Local Cost-/Financing
Fiscal Year
and Semester Ending                                 CFAF Million
1979
December 1978                                      45
June 1979                                          45
1980
June 1980                                          45
1981
December 1980                                      45
June 1981                                          20
TOTAL        245
1/ Free of taxes and duties
Source: DGPW, Consultants and mission estimates.
May, 1978



-  33  -
Table 10
C.A.E.
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Credit Disbursements
(US$'000)
IDA Fiscal Year                                          Cumulative Disbursement
and Semester Ending                                          at End of Semester
1979
December 1978                                                        2,000
June 1979                                                            4,500
1980
December 1979                                                        7,000
June 1980                                                            9,500
1981
December 1980
June 1981                                                           12,000
14,000
1982
December 1981                                                       15,500
Source: Mission estimates.
May, 1978



- 34 -
Table 1l
C.A.E.
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimates of Vehicle Operating Costs 1/
(CFAF/km net of taxes)
Improved
Paved Road     Gravel Road      Existing Road 21
Passenger car                   29.38           37.91        41.75 -  51.26
Pick-up                         31.87           40.44        46.64 -  54.63
Light truck (7t)                68.74          88.63        107.05 - 125.28
Heavy truck (12t)               91.45         117.01        146.96 - 171.41
Trailer (25t)                  130.80         166.62        195.61 - 227.54
1/ The estimates of voc are for Bangui-Bossembele road only;
all voc in mid-1977 prices
2/ Unimproved gravel or earth road
Source: Consultants Louis Berger and mission estimates
May 1978



- 35 -
Table 12
C.A.E.
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Economic Returns of the
Reconstruction of Bangui-Bossembele Road1/
Sensitivity Analysis
Costs    Benefits
Best     Increase   Decrease      Costs Increase 10%
Estimate       10%        15%      Benefits Decrease 10%
Bangui-Boali (82 km)          13%        12%         12%               11%
Boali-Bossembele (63 km)    11%          10%          9%                9%
Bangui-Bossembele cL45km)    12%         11%         11%               10%
Boali-Bossembele _/
(incremental rate of return)
(63 km)                      11%          9%          8%                8%
1/ The returns are rounded; more information is given in Annex I
2/ Economic Return for upgrading the road from engineered gravel
to bituminous paved standard
Source: Consultants Louis Berger and mission estimates
May 1978



-  36  -
ANJNEX I
C.A.E.
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Bangui-Bossembele
Road Reconstruction i/
Bangui-        Boali-           Bangui-
Parameter                              Unit            Boali          Bossembele       Bossembele
Length                                  km               82              63                145
Traffic 2/
1975                                  AADT              147              90                 -
1981 - Light vehicles                 AADT              151              68                 -
- Heavy vehicles                 AADT             116               93                -
- Total                          AADT             267              161                -
2000                                  AADT              825             500                 -
Economic Cost 3/
Paved Road                        CFAF million        2,541.1         1,916.9           4,458.0
Annual Benefits 4/
(a) Paved Road
1. 1981 - First Year
- savings in voc 1/from
normal traffic             CFAF million         205.15          117.11             322.26
- savings    voc from
generated-/ Traffic        CFAF million          37.00            22.03             59.03
- savings in maintenance
cost                       CFAF million          24.69           18.52              43.21
- Total                    CFAF million         266.86          157.66             424.52
2. 2000 - Last Year Total   CFAF million           956-95           486.59          1,443.54
(b) Paved Road'7/
1. 1981 - First Year Total  CFAF million              -              77.76             -
2. 2000 - Last Year Total   CFAF million              -             150.08             -
First Year Return
Paved Road                        Percent                10.5             8.3                9.5
Economic Return
Paved Road                        Percent                13.4            10.7               12.4
Paved Road                        Percent                12.3             9.6               11.3
Incremental Return                Percent                 -              10.6               -
1/ The economic evaluation was done in the prices of mid-1977 assuming a 20-year
economic life (1981-2000); the construction was estimated in the period 1978-1980.
2/ Normal and generated traffic together.
3/ Net of taxes; tax component is about 17% of the financial cost; includes the cost of
supervision and consulting engineering services.
4/ Benefits include: savings from vehicle operating costs of five groups of vehicles
(Table 11) from normal and generated traffic; distance savings of 2.5 km on the Bangui-
Boali section; and savings in road maintenance cost.
5/ In the period 1981-1990 traffic growth was estimated at 7% and in the period 1991-2000 at
6% per annum.
6/ Generated traffic was estimated at about 35% of normal traffic; however, half of the
benefits of the generated traffic was taken into the computation of economic returns; its
annual growth was estimated at 5% throughout the economic life (1pI-2000).
7/ Benefits for computing incremental return for paving Boali-Bossembele section; the
benefits include savings in voc between engineered gravel standard and paved standard,
additional mobilization cost of CFAF 198.00 million (net of taxes) in 1985 (assuming that
the road should be paved by that year) and savings in road maintenance cost. Incremental
economic costs of paving the section (if the works are done in one package with road
improvement to gravel standard) are estimated at CFAF 875.00 million.
8/ The test includes an increase of road construction cost of 10% (physical contingencies);
the first year return for the whole road is 8.7%; in the sensitivity analysis for the
whole road, when the cost is increased by 10% and benefits reduced by 10% the return
is 10.1%.
Source: Consultants Louis Berger, Ministry of Agriculture, Bangui, and mission estimates
May 1978



CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organization of Department of Public Works
Directorate General
Technical Advisor                                   of
Public Works
~~o n o~Ispetobo  ud ivson
Directorate of                                                                 Directorateoof Administrative                                                                          Public Works
PIanning and Construction                                                    Road and River Maintennace                                             and Financial Services                   Laboratory
<; rtrT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Equipmen                                                                        Rive                                       Personnell
Studies and           Roadwvorks           BuligWr                    itict                District                 adAcut                                                               n
Planning             Supervisor           Supervision                EatWest                                   V                    Iastructure Weasnt
Subdivisions:         Subdivisions:
Batangafo              Bagi
G rampel              Berberati
Bambari                Bouar
Bangassou             Bossangoa
May 1978                                                                                                                                                                                                  World Bank -19307






I BRD 1228
| (- 6 .> ~~N  I G  E  R _< 4'   1'128
X                                   0              0                   0             t                                                X          A~~~~~~~~~''       U    D    A    N
t jX / 0 $t- i R ; :\iRAL AFR;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CEN                                                                                       EMPIRE  
10    0    <   >;ng    C A At vO   tQ l  ; 5Ossambe-99  >                                                                                    ;t  -4--y~~~~~~~TRAL  FRICA
0  5   5   ;   E   ;  ;;  gJrHr  or  !  a,mil Y M4L8i  e  I]N[/E, t 8e rr:ti Z<Lnga ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6-
I  )                    EQUATORtAl                               A>,>                         i               .                                                  %>s,         '~~~~~~~~~E.     ]~
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ag;   Nr                                                                                                                                         -J       A-;? \CuNAZ _     7 t- n s WlW g,
:~~~~~~~~~~' X                                  +         <      -9't-                                                j ,     />                                                                       ''
; \ ;: |   ,   t (     a '>=f-j                      ,  gelings  b                  9' <'~~~~~~~~~ (   d                                          'A
'.  ['   0                        LtBREVtELE(;MALA  17j                           >9    >$ 
LsE  \t  L   :                r          rf      UtSsOtue           j  ~~~~ ~~~~~~c       N   G   O        (s'~                       CENTRAL AFRICAN  EMPIRE                         
i; ;; 0 :0/   \   1;    iX   G   A   ci-t,0 N            ?                    t 1        Z LsRbD  \-~THIRD  HIGHWAY  PROJECT
6,          o     ld Mlne       V         J          0l  .Oas ,-,                              4                                                         -/  B=Project roadc
YS:  'R,    i  _  r  t   ,4           MondS          /                aojX         rN'>                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Primary roads, C.A.E.
\;  5/  ;   i   <             /      t>Mbind  vX,  (  'LZ               R%MazAdwn62     ............                   ........ Trons-A......... Tra riAfrn HiHighwa
0 t X . | ; J ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
A  F R I C  A                                                                                                                                                         Noa.2LtL r iono) capitals
009~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -.t - -ol - /, - -Internotional boLincrries
2  00;  E    (i)   ,aS   X                               ;W   1            * a )                   O                            ~~,Lf      100         200         300          400 MIIE5
r   )  j  X  fa   iJ             X           ty                                 =S                           O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ too    2120    300    400    500    600 KILOMETERS
t;: E _} igS A N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G  O' L' A                                                           1 Ij                                              2i14






IBRD 12229R
/   :                                                                                                                                         :::        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JANUARY RRD
CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                       A F RI C
ROAD NETWORK                                                      9
\                             :                         0  0                0 Jv             --~~~               ~       ~~~~~~~~~' \L
<                                                %A     OS     S2                                    <-.'                           4, :;
\   /,                      IIELE                                                                                      -  /S    *
X                                             2          ;,  7              o             4                             X  OGA_DAOUA
.QF PAOUA   -.                                                 A                                            5A\A  A  YAj.N                         _
A'~~~~U
\R A K ' UMAX                       A>         '          0            A
%4Q04 /   t  -            (                                              X           t                ( /                /   P                         / \9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-t
O    \TELE\                                 //   SI W I   \ VI&<    4                                                                              J                                 _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NO  A4A
.Is E4 *v  !RBERATI                    s>A        BAX                  0     f     b                               OUANGOOJ N                A      
1-Y.                                                                            i  ,X,              ;      :       R      ;      V     d      X    D;         _     -      PROJECT ROAD
VE   \.'   A   WAKOMBO    ZII                                                                                                   OTWPAVED PRIMARY ROADS
AARNMBO0                                                                                                                    OT1HER PRIMAnY ROADS
______SECONDARY ROADS
OLA                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LOCAL OR FEEDER RIOADS
.   .... _CONSTRUCTED UNDER CREDIT 146-CA
\ SAL        1/O                             -}                             \NZ    A;  L   R    E   ;          \ \ 0 D; i                              *       INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
4. SECONDARY AIRFIELDS
o..'.  RIVERS
0 t                                                                                                                                                        -  .       O 0 0 0 ;; ; 0  IN T E R N A T IO N A L   BO U N D A R I ES
tyl                                                                                                                                                                               S.ALE SrOZ*EVf *  Rq hr nQr sx 4_ we ng rt & nor  t   z   e s  2 0 0   K
TAII,,dAIpS,w,   I-p RIA SR11      is   N1   RI    Be,  p    10*0.1 RI R  SRt  so re 10OKM
PRISSISN                                                          WA"llSIsPnd HA -nflI0n



