Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19521
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1783-RW)
June 29, 1999
Water and Urban 2
Infrastructure
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =   RwF (Rwanda Franc)
1987 US$1.00        =   RwF 84
1997: US$1.00        =   RwF 300
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                 British/US Equivalents
I meter (m)              =   3.3 feet
I hectare (ha)           =   2.47 acres
1 area (lOOm2)           =   0.025 acres
1 kilometer (km)         =   0.62 mile
I square kilometer (kM2)    =   0.39 square mile (sq. m.)
1 kilogram (kg)          =   2.2 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)              =   0.26 US gallon (gal.)
1 metric ton ( m ton)         2,204 (lb.)
RWANDESE FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                  African Development Bank
AFD                   Agence Francaise de Developpement
BADEA                 Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique
BNR                   Banque Nationale du Rwanda
CDF                   Communal Development Fund
CIC                  Interministerial Coordination Committee
DEA                   Directorate of Water and Sanitation
ELECTROGAZ            National Water and Electricity Company
GDW                   General Directorate of Water
GOR                   Government of Rwanda
MINITRAPE             Ministry of Public Works and Energy
NFRWS                 National Fund for Rural Water Supply
NGO                   Non-Governmental Organization
SMEs                  Small and Medium Enterprises
Vice President    :  Callisto Madavo, AFRVP
Director          :  Emmanuel Mbi, AFC09
Sector Manager    :  Letitia A. Obeng, AFTU2
Task Team Leader  : Richard Verspyck, AFTU2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CR 1783-RW)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE                                                                    i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                        ii
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                  1
A. INTRODUCTION                                                          I
B. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES                                2
C. AcBEVEMENT OF THE PROJECT OBJECTIVES                                  3
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                                   5
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                                6
F. BANK PERFORMANCE                                                      7
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                                  7
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                                                 8
1.  FUTURE OPERATIONS                                                    8
J.  KEY LESSONS LEARNED AND RECOMMENDATIONS                              9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES                                               11
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS                                        11
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS                                     12
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE                                              12
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL           13
TABLE 5: TARGETED AND ACHElVED OUTPUT                                   14
TABLE 6: PROJECT INDICATORS FORPROJECT OPERATION                        15
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT                                    15
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS                                                 16
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FiNANCING                                             16
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS                                    17
TABLE 10: STATUS OF COVENANTS                                           17
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS                 18
TABLE 12: BANKRESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS                                   19
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS                                      20
ANNEX A. AIDE-MEMOIRE OF THE COMPLETION MISSION
ANNEX B. BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
MAP - IBRD No. 20139
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1783-RW)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Water Supply Project
in Rwanda for which Credit 1783-RW, in the amount of SDR1 1.7 million (US$15.0 million
equivalent) was approved on April 28, 1987, signed on August 14, 1987 and made effective on
October 31, 1988.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1998, four years after the original closing date.
An amount of SDR180,000 was cancelled on July 9, 1998. Final disbursement was made on
June 1, 1999, at which time a balance of SDR 467,642.74 (US$627,165.03 equivalent) was
canceled. Six donors contributed to the project: AfDB (US$12.5 million); Austria (US$7.0
million); BADEA (US$7.2 million); AFD (US$16.0 million); Switzerland (US$8.3 million);
UNDP (US$0.7 million). Two donors disbursed their pledged amounts: Austria and AFD. The
remaining four donors disbursed as follows: AfDB (32% of the pledged amount); BADEA
(39%); Switzerland (16%) and UNDP (0%).  The Government of Canada contributed
approximately US$0.3 million, though not anticipated at the time of the SAR.
This ICR was prepared by Marie-Chantal Uwanyiligira (AFMRW), Eleanor Warner and
Richard Verspyck (AFTU2). The Borrower contributed to the ICR preparation through the DEA
and CEPEX and prepared its own implementation completion report, which is summarized in
Appendix B.
Preparation of this report began during the Bank's December 1998 supervision/completion
mission to Rwanda, led by Mr. R. Verspyck. The ICR is based on materials in the project files,
correspondence, the appraisal report, and the Development Credit Agreement (DCA).
Comments were received from staff involved in different stages of the project and have been
incorporated into the ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (CR 1783-RW)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    This Implementation Completion Report evaluates the outcome of the Second Water
Supply Project (Cr.1783) in Rwanda, implemented by the Directorate of Water and Sanitation
(DEA) within the Ministry of Public Works and Energy (MINITRAPE).
Project Objectives and Components
ii.   The project's objectives were to: (a) assist the Government of Rwanda (GOR) in
improving the efficiency of water supply operations in rural areas through strengthening the
capacity of the General Directorate of Water (now Directorate of Water and Sanitation, DEA)
and the communes to effectively perform their functions and improve the efficiency of resource
flows into the sector; (b) improve the quality and quantity of water provided to the country's
rural population through the establishment of a national water system rehabilitation and
maintenance program; (c) assist in financing and implementation of the rehabilitation and
expansion of five water systems in the Lava Region (Northwest Rwanda).
iii.   The project's components included: (a) specific investments for rehabilitation and
expansion of water supply systems in the Lava Region; (b) engineering services for construction
supervision; (c) a national program developed by the communes with assistance from local
NGOs for rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of existing rural water supply systems
throughout the country; and (d) an institutional component with technical assistance and training,
to reinforce the capacity of the General Directorate of Water as well as the communes and user
associations.
Evaluation of Objectives
iv.   The project's objectives were clear and consistent with a comprehensive reform program.
The project set out to introduce innovation in managing rural water supplies on a large scale.
However, setting up a national fund to channel countrywide investments in rural water supply
using NGOs and relying on an executing agency with little experience to coordinate multiple
actors, donors and stakeholders was a challenging enterprise. The executing agency had only
two years of existence prior to the project and, at the time, there was little regional or even global
experience in sustainable investments in rural water supply. The objectives related to setting up
a mechanism for increasing sustainable investments in rural water supply would have been
difficult to attain even under normal country conditions. The project had to be restructured in
1995, due to the 1990-94 outbreak of war and continued uncertain security conditions. However,
the scale of the restructuring was inadequate to allow the project's revised objectives to be



-ii-
achieved. The restructured project remained too ambitious as there was little executing
capacity, at the agency or the communal levels, and little chance of strengthening capacity to
execute the project. Moreover, the restructured project still relied on cofinanciers, some of
whom did not continue involvement after the war.
Achievement of Olbjectives
v.    Ten years (including four years of war) after project effectiveness, the key development
objectives (as initially set out in the SAR and addressed by the three components) have been
partially achieved.
(a) The objective of strengthening the capacity of the DEA (formerly GDW) and
communes to perform their functions through detailed functional analyses, manpower
development, provision of equipment and creation of a National Fund for Rural Water
Supply (NFRWS) to improve the efficiency of resource flows into the sector was not
achieved. Most of the innovative features of sector development contemplated in the SAR
did not materialize or did so temporarily (e.g., private sector participation in the operation
and maintenance of water systems, NGO-driven planning and execution of physical
works). Not all policy reforms were achieved. The policy reforms that were achieved
were subject to significant Government delays;
(b)  The objective of improving the quality and quantity of water provided to the
country's rural population through the establishment of a national water system
rehabilitation and maintenance program was not achieved. The nationwide water system
rehabilitation and maintenance program contemplated under the project never took off
because the supporting institutional framework, including the NFRWS, collapsed before
becoming truly operational; and
(c)  The objective of rehabilitating and expanding water supply systems in the Lava
Region was only partially achieved.  The component got started in 1989 but was
interrupted by adverse security conditions in the Lava Region, which prevented
completion. 'While part of the production and primary distribution systems was completed
before the 1994 war (AFD, Austria and IDA financing), only a limited amount of the
secondary distribution systems was completed - the IDA-financed component.
Results
vi.  The project accomplished the following: (a) construction of treatment and pumping
stations, laying of 160 km of primary pipes and 14 km of distribution pipes in the Lava Region;
(b) rehabilitation of four simple (gravity-fed) piped water supply systems and construction of
277 protected springs; (c) establishment of three user associations and 60 water committees in
three communes and development of a nationwide sensitization program; (d) formulation and
testing of cost recovery and water charges collection schemes; and (e) development of a new
water and sanitation policy based on a demand-driven approach. A total of US$51 million or
71% of estimated costs was expended. As a result of the shortcomings enumerated in para. v
above, the project zas completed benefits less than one-sixth of the beneficiaries expected at the
outset.



-iv-
Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability
vii. The project was unsuccessful in achieving its original objectives as well as the restructured
ones. The exceptional circumstances, particularly the 1990-94 civil war and genocide, in which
the project was implemented are indeed the most important factors of the project's failure.
Sustainability of achievements depends on the ability of the GOR to mobilize the needed
resources to implement the policy reforms anticipated by the project, including full involvement
of the communes in decentralized management of the systems. Sustainability is probable for the
simple systems, provided that continued support is given to the user associations in collecting
water charges and providing adequate operation and maintenance, but is unlikely for the complex
ones, as the required mechanisms for management of these systems have not been put in place.
Current indications are that the Government is moving in the right direction to initiate
sustainable management of water supply systems, through the recently adopted water and
sanitation policy.
Bank Performance
viii. Bank performance at appraisal is rated satisfactory. It is also rated satisfactory during
implementation. However, the Bank performance has been deficient as regards the project
restructuring (para.27). The project was restructured in 1995, but was not properly adjusted to
the new situation prevailing in the country. Institutional objectives (difficult to achieve under
post-conflict situations) were not modified and project activities were not refocused on high-
impact activities consistent with continued uncertain security conditions and the disappearance
of cofinanciers. Large amounts remained committedv against studies, the results of which had
little chance of being implemented in the short term. This project is one of the oldest in the
Rwanda portfolio. Originally planned for six years, it was implemented over a period of more
than eleven years (including four years of war when the project was also interrupted).
Borrower Performance
ix.  The Borrower's performance in project implementation was deficient as exemplified by:
(a) the Government's lack of compliance with key Credit Agreement conditions at the project's
effectiveness; (b) failure to effectively implement its strategy to delegate responsibility to the
communes and communities for managing the water supply infrastructure; (c) deterioration of
political and economic conditions, specifically the non-service of debt, which led to the
withdrawal of one cofinancier; (d) procurement problems that delayed the execution of
distribution systems and the start-up of rehabiliatation studies at a critical time; and (e) failure to
strengthen capacity of the DEA and the communes, which was exacerbated by the lack-of
adequate human resources after the genocide.
Key Lessons Learned and Recommendations
x.   The key lessons learned in this operation are as follows:
(a) The Bank showed flexibility in dealing with assistance in a post-conflict situation
through the project restructuring process, but that process should have thoroughly



reviewed the project development objectives and components. Reformulation of projects
in a post-conflict situation deserves special attention, particularly the assessment of
institutional and policy reforms targets;
(b) Future operations need to be kept simple and conducive to quick results on the
ground. This project had a relatively complex design, involving a multiplicity of donors
with countrywide coverage and was innovative; IDA participation in this operation
served as a catalyst for providing funds and encouraged burden sharing among donors.
As such, it represented an important part of a broad-based multi-donor effort. However,
there was not much tangible result for the final beneficiaries, since donor funds, which
were largely earmarked for civil works, were discontinued as a result of country
instability;
(c) When the Bank has a partnership with cofinanciers, the project finance plan should
be designed in such a way that interruption by one cofinancier would not affect the
participation of other cofinanciers. This was the case for the Lava Region component
where the withdrawal of AfDB and BADEA did not affect the participation of the other
donors. Conversely, different cofinancing arrangements that were adopted for the
national rehabilitation program greatly limited the impact of the component. With donors
not returning after the 1994 war, it is evident that in such a situation, a mechanism should
be found to resolve the financing gap left by the donors' withdrawal. One approach
might be that, when donors show a tendency not to resume their financing, after a defined
period other solutions such as supplemental credit by IDA could be envisaged;
(d) Radical changes to the institutional and operating environment are important to
ensure the sustainability of sector investments. However, they are particularly difficult to
implement under post-conflict situations where the client's attention is more focused on
emergency rather than long-term issues. It is important to gauge the government's
capacity and commitment, in order to redesign an operation that effectively responds to
the realities in the country. Additional institutional changes would be necessary to
adequately transfer management of nrral water facilities to the communes and related
communities and ensure financial self-sufficiency of the sector. This will be addressed
through the riecently adopted policy; and
(e) Project ownership at an early stage and throughout the project cycle is a key factor
for moving ahead and ensuring sustainability of the project outcome. This lesson has
been taken into account in designing the Bank's future operation under preparation which
is based on the recently adopted policy. The latter is articulated on a demand-driven
approach, where the communities are assuming the lead role in the overall project cycle.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (CR. 1783-RW)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
1.   IDA's assistance to the water sector started in 1983, with the First Water Supply
Project (Credit 1345-RW of SDR12.0 million, signed on July 7, 1983). An institutional
study for the rural water supply sector was carried out under CR 1345. It recommended a
new sectoral strategy, aimed at giving full responsibility for rural water supply to the
communities and establishing a new system of water charges to be collected from users at
the communal level to cover operation, maintenance and renewal costs. In November
1985, the Government approved the sectoral strategy and its implementation was sought
through the Second Water Supply Project. Financing for investments were to be obtained
from the National Fund for Rural Water Supply (NFRWS), to be created under this
project, as a specialized window of the existing Communal Development Fund (CDF).
CR 1345 also financed detailed engineering studies for rehabilitation and extension of
rural aqueducts in the Lava Region. The studies constituted the basis for this Second
Water Supply Project.
2.    Country Background. Rwanda is a small (26,000 kM2), landlocked and resource-
poor country in central Africa. Between 1959 and 1973, the country experienced
repeated ethnic conflicts, which culminated in a civil war triggered in 1990 by exiles
seeking to return to Rwanda. In August 1993, a power-sharing agreement was signed in
Arusha, Tanzania. However, implementation of the accord lagged, and the political
transition was irremediably derailed by renewed violence, culminating in the 1994
genocide. The genocide and civil war devastated the economy. Economic output fell by
50%. In July 1994, a Government of National Unity was put in place. Since assuming
power, the new Government placed emphasis on establishing an atmosphere of peace and
security, resettling displaced persons and refugees, assisting victims of genocide,
rehabilitating social infrastructure and reviving and stabilizing the economy. Despite the
difficult socio-political environment, the limited capacity of the Government, and the
challenges of maintaining a fragile coalition Government while dealing with violent-
insurgency, Rwanda has made progress in the social (including water facilities) and
economic fronts since 1994. Economic, administrative, judicial and social infrastructure
(including water facilities) and institutions have been rehabilitated.   Additional
background information on the country and sector can be found in the Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 6602-RW).



-2-
B. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
3.    The project's objectives as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report were to:
(i)  strengthen the capacity of the General Directorate of Water (GDW) and the
communes to perform their functions through detailed functional analyses,
manpower development, provision of equipment and the creation of a National
Fund for Rural Water Supply (NFRWS) to improve the efficiency of resource
flows into the sector;
(ii)  improve the quality and quantity of water provided to the rural population
throughout the country through establishment of a national water system
rehabilitation and maintenance program under the direction of GDW; and
(iii) assist with the financing and implementation of the rehabilitation and
expansion of water supply systems in the Lava Region (Northwest Rwanda).
4.    The project components included:
(i)  rehalbilitating and extending water supply systems in the Lava Region,
covering an area of about 1,000 km2 and serving about 400,000 persons in 1992
and 500,000 in year 2000. The systems were: (a) Sebeya and Yungwe-Bikore; (b)
Mizingo-Mutura; (c) Mutera; (d) Upper Mutobo; (e) Lower Mutobo; and (f) Cretes.
(ii) providing engineering services for construction supervision;
(iii) establishing a national program for rehabilitation, operation and maintenance
of rural water supply systems and implementation of this program; and
(iv) strengthening of the GDW as well as the communes and user associations
through the provision of expertise, vehicles, equipment and training, in order to
implement the new policy for rural water supply.
5.    The project's objectives were clear and consistent with an ambitious reform
program that introduced innovation in managing rural water supplies on a large scale. As
appraised, the national rehabilitation program was a precursor of the demand-responsive
approach that was developed many years later. At the same time, the project sought to
meet the water needs of a region where geophysical conditions dictated the choice of
relatively costly and substantial investments. The conjunction of considerable policy
reforms and major investments in a single project is not unusual. However, setting up an
entirely new approach countrywide and relying on an executing agency with little
experience to coordinate multiple participants, donors and stakeholders and also manage
investments at an unusual scale was a challenging enterprise. The executing agency had
only two years of existence prior to the project and, at the time, there was little regional
or even global experience in sustainable investments in rural water supply.  The
objectives related to setting up a mechanism for increasing sustainable investments in
rural water supply would have been difficult to attain, even under normal country
conditions.



-3-
6.    Cofinancing arrangements for the Lava Region component were designed in such
a way that interruption by two cofinanciers did not affect the participation of other
cofinanciers.  Conversely, cofinancing arrangements for the national rehabilitation
program were not designed in the same way, which created severe implementation
problems at the end of the project.
7.    The project had to be restructured in 1995 due to the build-up of events that led to
the outbreak of war and continued uncertain security conditions. However, the scale of
the restructuring was inadequate to allow the revised objectives to be achieved. The
restructured project remained too ambitious as there was little executing capacity, at the
agency as well as the communal levels, and little chance of strengthening capacity to
execute the project. Moreover, the restructured project still relied on cofinanciers, many
of whom did not continue after the war. Ideally, the restructured project should not have
included institutional objectives that are difficult to achieve under post-conflict situations
(para. 11 & 27). It should have focussed on physical aspects such as providing potable
water to the massive population returning from exile and trying to resettle, using smaller
community-based organizations and relying only on the available funds. The future
project under preparation is applying a demand-driven approach with the community-
based organizations playing the leading role in the whole project cycle.
8.    The SAR mentions two risks which were correctly identified and well addressed:
(i) willingness of the communities to maintain and pay for operations; and (ii) capacity of
villagers to address maintenance as well as the availability of maintenance services, parts
and supplies. There was no mention, however, of the risk associated with the innovation
of pooling together communities, NGOs, government and contractors, multiple
participants and financiers to achieve results in rural water supply, which turned out to be
a major project issue.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF THE PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.   Achievement of the project's objectives was limited.  The status of the
components intended to achieve the project's objectives is provided in Table 5. As
indicated in the table, the physical works were not completed.
10. The objective of strengthening the capacity of GDW and the communes to perform
their functions through detailed functional analyses, manpower development, provision
of equipment and the creation of a National Fund for Rural Water Supply (NFRWS) to
improve the efficiency of resource flows into the sector was partially achieved. The
project concept required all donor funds to be put into the NFRWS and communes to
apply for finance, based on NGO help with design. After effectiveness, an NFRWS
account was opened, a set of rules for operation and management prepared (but not
adopted by the Government), and replenishment of the account was done accordingly in
1989 and 1990, but not in subsequent years as the NFRWS was not operational. Contrary
to the advice of supervision missions, the Government focussed its attention exclusively
on construction of physical works to the detriment of the NFRWS.
11. Most of the other innovative features for sector development contemplated in the
SAR (private sector participation in the operation of water systems, and NGO-driven



-4-
planning and execution of physical works) did not materialize as planned.  Two
international NC,Os withdrew from the project at an early stage in execution. One local
NGO, which had the required experience, worked on the design of the distribution
network up to 1993, but relations with the Engineering Consulting Team were very
strained and eventually resulted in the local NGO withdrawing from the project. Finally,
another international NGO was contracted, but was expelled in 1996 for political reasons.
The responsibility for developing the distribution network was then contracted to an
international firn, which was contrary to the spirit of the demand-driven approach; only
about 10% of the networks were completed.
12.   The elements that did materialize were only temporary. For example, the GDW
was reorganized and training provided, but its staff (including a Project Coordination
Unit) was disbarided in 1994 as most of them left the country during the civil war. It was
subsequently re-established as DEA but remained very weak in project management,
financial management and community development. Similarly, two intercommunal
associations of water users were established in 1993 in the Lava Region, but disintegrated
in 1994. R6gies associatives were created after 1995 and promotion of community
management for project infrastructure then made some progress, as confirmed by an
independent assessment on the impact of community development activities in Rutobwe
and Musambira. The user associations of the Mutura and Musambira communes are the
only ones in Rwanda (with Ngenda) that effectively charge and collect user fees based on
actual consumption. The experience suggests that the commune might not be the
appropriate leveil for organizing operation and maintenance of multiple water systems and
scattered springs. The post-war experience with smaller community-based organizations
is convincing, but strengthening social cohesion and reintegration in Rwanda remains a
fornnidable challenge.
13.   The objective of improving the quality and quantity of water provided to the rural
population throughout the country, through the establishment of a national water system
rehabilitation and maintenance program under the direction of GDW was partially
achieved. The project component respondling to this objective did not effectively get off
the ground until 1993. At that time, and following the collapse of the NFRWS, it
transformed into a top-down, conventional rehabilitation program covering a limited
number of communes, for which master plans were being prepared. Studies were
interrupted in 1994 and resumed in 1996. The scope of the program was refocused on (a)
three communes to be supplied by 15 simple systems and more than 700 springs; and (b)
ten complex intercommunal systems in Mayaga-Bugesera. The execution of this revised
program was eventually hampered by the limited availability of Swiss co-financing
(which was the primary source of funding for works of this component), implementation
delays and procurement and contract management problems. Only four simple systems
were rehabilitated in two communes and 277 springs 'were built in one commune only.
None of the complex systems was rehabilitated.
14.   The objective of assisting with financing and implementation of the rehabilitation
and expansion of water supply systems in the Lava Region (Northwest Rwanda) was
partially achieved. As initially conceived, five donors (AfDB, BADEA, AFD, Austria
and IDA) were to contribute. The construction of' production facilities (including
treatment plants, pumping stations and major reservoirs) and primary transmission began



-5-
in 1989/90. Four lots (financed by Austria, AFD and IDA) were completed just before
1994. The contracts for the remaining three lots (financed by AfDB and BADEA) were
terminated at the request of the contractor, due to delays in payment and settlement of
claims, and to the discontinuation of BADEA financing that resulted from arrears on debt
service payments by the Government. Very limited work on the secondary distribution
systems was done before the war, and only IDA resumed activities in the area after 1994.
Of the two secondary systems that were to be financed by IDA (lot 3: Mizingo-Mutura
system (four sub-lots) and lot 5: Upper Mutobo system (four sub-lots)), only sub-lot 3.2
was completed, in February 1997. Due to renewed insecurity in the area, a call for
construction tenders for lots 3.1, 3.3 and 3.4 elicited no response from potential bidders
and was subsequently abandoned in February 1998. Construction of the remaining
secondary system lots could not be pursued within the framework of the present project.
15.   The objective of achieving financial discipline and self-sufficiency of the rural
water supply sector was temporarily and partially achieved through the formulation of
cost recovery schemes from users, although different policies were adopted in the three
communes covered by the project (i.e., per capita contribution in Rutobwe and payment
in accordance with actual consumption in Musambira and Mutura). However, the
established water charges were insufficient to cover operation and maintenance costs, let
alone renewal. The NFRWS (para. 10), intended to become the principal channel for all
funding to the rural water supply sector, collapsed before becoming truly operational.
The NFRWS had been designed as a window of the Communal Development Fund.
However, the NFRWS never took off, never elicited trust of the communes, and never
developed the projected level of demand. Deposits in the NFRWS were eventually used
by the Government to provide its contribution to financing the Lava Region systems.
16.  In the current situation the ERR was not calculated. A total of 79% of the
investment cost planned for this component was expended, benefiting about one-sixth of
the intended beneficiaries. Revenue collected is insufficient to finance investments and
operation; it is unlikely that the ERR will be positive. Additional benefits were to be
derived from labor generated by community participation (with NGO support) in
construction of the distribution network; however, as mentioned in para. 11, the
anticipated level of community participation did not materialize.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
17.   The exceptional circumstances in which the project was implemented are indeed
the most important factor of the project's failure. The civil war, culminating in the 1994-
genocide as well as the massive population movements, not only provoked multiple
interruptions in the implementation of the project, but also undermined the fundamentals
of the sectoral development strategy, based on the involvement and participation of the
rural population. However, many factors under the control of the various participants
compounded the impact of those extremely adverse conditions.
18.   Factors within the control of Government. Implementation of the project
started slowly. The DCA was signed in August 1987, but the project became effective
only in October 1988. This was due to Government's delay in fulfilling some
effectiveness conditions, namely (i) opening of a special account for the NFRWS; and (ii)



-6-
establishing the Project Unit. Works delays were incurred when Government insisted on
assigning procurement of PVC pipes for the Lava Region distribution systems to a local
manufacturer. The latter eventually was unable to deliver. It is likely that a substantial
part of the distrjibution networks would have been completed on time and ahead of the
expansion of the civil war in the absence of this interference. In addition, Government
accumulated arrears on debt service payments due to BADEA, leading the latter to
discontinue its financing in 1992.
19.   Before 1994, Government efforts were exclusively focused on completing the
works in the Lava Region, while the national rehabilitation program for rural water
supply lagged behind schedule.  Procurement problems delayed the selection of
consultants by more than one year. The Government's commitment to establishing a
sustainable NFRWS- and its parent, the CDF- appears to have been symbolic, as well
as its commitment to delegating responsibilities to the rural population. This led to
failure to implement the nationwide program for water systems rehabilitation and
maintenance as contemplated in the SAR.
20.   Factors beyond the control of the Government. The deterioration of security
conditions in the country led some cofinanciers to limit or discontinue their financing.
Other donors demonstrated more flexibility and support, for instance in (a) agreeing to
finance contractors' claims deriving from. force majeure; and (b) providing counterpart
funds in lieu olf the Government's contribution. Finally the rehabilitation component
elicited limited interest from the donors which, even before 1994, chose to follow their
own way in financing rehabilitation works. Only IDA and, to a limited extent, the Swiss
Development Corporation financed this component.
21.   Also beyond the control of the Government was the poor performance of several
contractors and suppliers whose contracts were terminated; adverse weather conditions
were also a contributory factor which delayed the implementation of rehabilitation works
in 1997 and 1998.
22.   Factors within the control of the implementing agency. Continued weaknesses
in the project coordination unit hampered project implementation. The establishment of
the PCU, staffed with foreign advisors, did not help in building capacities in DEA. On
the contrary, it contributed to isolating Rwandese staff assigned to the unit. Most of the
coordination problems were left to the Bank supervision missions to resolve. In addition,
the PCU was unable to reduce tensions among the various participants (particularly
among the NGOs and the Engineering Consulting Team) or to actively promote the
innovations of the sectoral strategy.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
23.   Sustainability of the achievements under the Credit depends upon the ability of
the GOR and communes to mobilize resources required for operation, maintenance and
renewal of water supply schemes financed under the project.  Sustainability of the
completed physical works is probable foir the simple systems, provided that continued
support is given to the user associations in collecting water charges and ensuring
maintenance of those systems. Sustainability is unlikely for large and complex systems,



-7-
such as in the Lava Region, unless a proper management mechanism, involving private
sector participation, is put in place. The Government has taken steps in the interest of
sustainability through its recent adoption of an agreed water and sanitation policy and its
public expenditure review.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
24.   Bank performance at appraisal is rated satisfactory. Project preparation was
adequate; preparation started in 1984, the project was appraised in September 1986 and
presented to the Board in August 1987.
25.   Project supervision by the Bank appears to be satisfactory. The frequency of
missions was adequate, as was staff continuity. Three task managers succeeded one
another over a period of ten years, which is reasonable. The skills mix was adequate to
address contract management and related issues. In all, there were 19 supervision
missions, with an interruption of 15 months between January 1994 and May 1995. The
more frequent missions in 1995 and 1996 were designed to keep up the project
momentum during a very bleak period in the country.
26.   Supervision was extremely time-consuming, as the task managers had to address
multiple procurement and contract management issues, as well as ensure de facto the
coordination of multiple donors. Until 1994, most of the efforts were devoted to
completing the Lava Region systems, while insisting on the preservation of basic
implementation principles (particularly the involvement of NGOs and beneficiaries).
27.   The Bank performance was deficient as regards the project restructuring process.
In hindsight, the restructuring process in 1995 was marked by excessive optimism on the
resumption of adequate security conditions and on the willingness of cofinanciers to
continue with the rehabilitation component. The restructuring process focused on
physical implementation and on alleviating the Government's financial contribution. It
did not formally waive or amend covenants on institutional objectives that were hardly
achievable under post-conflict situations. Persistent expectations of the resumption of
cofinanciers' activities prevented the reallocation of IDA funds towards project activities
that would have had an immediate impact. Large amounts remained committed against
studies that had little chance of being implemented.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
28.   The Borrower's performance in project implementation was unsatisfactory. The
Government, at the early stage of project implementation, delayed in complying with
conditions for project effectiveness and also failed to comply with other DCA legal
covenants, as detailed in Table 10. As noted above, the Government contributed to
delays in procurement and failed to honor its commitment to institutional reforms and
implementation of the sectoral strategy. The deterioration of the country's economic and
security conditions definitely generated more pressing issues than policy reforms, both
for the Government and for the staff of the executing agency. Weak capacity in the DEA,
exacerbated by the loss of human resources partly as a result of the genocide, also
impeded the Borrower's performance in project implementation. Significant loss of



-8-
records hampered financial management and accounting, and audit reports were delivered
with substantial delays.
H.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
29.   The project's outcome is unsatisfactory. The original intent of the project was the
availability of safe potable water for about 600,000 persons living in scattered rural
settlements, and health improvement. The project, as completed, is capable of serving
one-sixth of the target, since the major part of the distribution network remains
unfinished. The second expected benefilt of the project was to foster development of
communal responsibility for facilities. This was partially achieved, but the Government
failed to delegate management of the water facilities to the communes.  The last
important and expected benefit was establishing cost recovery schemes as well as the
NFRWS that could lead to sustained rural water sector development. Cost recovery
schemes were established; however, they are inadequate to serve operation, maintenance
and renewal costs as indicated in the policy. The NFRWS was not effectively made
operational and undermined the core concept of the project.
30.   Actual project expenditures amount to US$51.1 million to be compared to an
appraisal estimate of US$72.2. US$42.2 million were spent in the Lava Region to
eventually supply water to only 40,000 people. Studies consumed 75% of the funds spent
for the rehabilitation component. Rehabilitation work was completed on four piped
systems and 277 standpipes in the Rutobwe Commune and one piped system in the
Musambira Commune, which together serve about 60,000 people.
31.   Private sector participation in the project was one of the innovative features of
sector development outlined in the SAR. The experience with local Small and Medium
Enterprises (SMEs), private engineering firms and NGOs was mixed. The main works
were carried out by international firms, construction works in lots were awarded to local
SMEs, under the supervision of international engineering firms. Local NGOs developed
sensitization programs, with the assistance of international experts.   However,
participation of the private sector encountered difficulties and hardships because of
contract cancellations, non-payment of claims by the GOR and deteriorated security
conditions in the project area. The use of a project coordination unit, comprising
international and local experts, did not always facilitate the work of NGOs and tensions
frequently arose between the two.
32.   The workshop on water and sanitation sector policy (organized by RWSG-EA in
September 1997) led the Government and donors to endorse a new sector strategy based
on the demand-responsive approach. Follow-up studies on the RWS project cycle, the
capacities of water user associations and management of complex systems lay the
groundwork for the preparation of an IDA-financed RWSS project.
I.   FuTU1RE OPERATIONS
33.   For the Lava Region, the public utility ELECTROGAZ has been requested to
operate and maintain the production facilities; operating costs are financed out of the
Governme.it's budget. The limited cash collected from water users through user charges



-9-
finances maintenance of the distribution systems and rehabilitation works.  These
arrangements are provisional, and one expected to be changed in the future when a
private operator can be attracted.
34.   A new strategy has been agreed with the Government which commits the
Government to a demand-driven approach in the development of water and sanitation
services, increasing private sector participation in water systems operation and
integrating sanitation/hygiene education initiatives into RWS projects.  All future
operations should be consistent with the new policy and the challenge for the next ten
years will be to build, in all the communes, the basic capacity to plan and operate
sustainable WSS systems.
35.   The future Rural Water and Sanitation Project, under preparation, builds on the
lessons learned from the Second Water Supply Project, and was identified as a vehicle for
implementing the new Water and Sanitation Strategy. The strategic objective of the
proposed project is to demonstrate the merits of a demand-responsive approach to rural
water supply and sanitation, involving private sector participation. Since the project will
be the first rural water supply initiative under the new strategy, it is well positioned to set
the standard for demand-driven RWSS projects in Rwanda.
J.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
36.   The key lessons leamed in this operation are as follows:
(a) The Bank showed flexibility in dealing with assistance in a post-conflict
situation through the project restructuring process, but that process should have
thoroughly reviewed the project development objectives and components.
Reformulation of projects in a post conflict situation deserves special attention,
particularly the assessment of the institutional and policy reform targets;
(b) Future operations need to be kept simple and conducive to quick results on
the ground. This project had a relatively complex design, involving a multiplicity
of donors with countrywide coverage and was innovative; IDA participation in
this operation served as a catalyst for providing funds and encouraged burden
sharing among donors. As such, it represented an important part of a broad-based
multi-donor effort. However, there was not much tangible result for the final
beneficiaries, since donor funds, which were largely earmarked for civil works,
were discontinued as a result of country instability;
(c) When the Bank has a partnership with cofinanciers, the project finance plan
should be designed in such a way that interruption by one cofinancier would not
affect the participation of other cofinanciers. This was the case for the Lava
Region component where the withdrawal of AfDB and BADEA did not affect the
participation of the other donors. Conversely, different cofinancing arrangements
that were adopted for the national rehabilitation program greatly limited the
impact of the component. With donors not returning after the 1994 war, it is
evident that in such a situation, a mechanism should be found to resolve the
financing gap left by the donors' withdrawal. One approach might be that when



-10-
donors show a tendency not to resume their financing, after a defined period,
other solutions such as supplemental credit by IDA could be envisaged. The
project finance plan should be kept simple, and inter-linked cofinancing of
programs with countrywide coverage should be avoided;
(d) Radiical changes to the institutional and operating environment are important
to ensure the sustainability of sector investments. However, they are particularly
difficult to implement under post-conflict situations where the client's attention is
more focused on emergency rather than long-term issues. It is important to gauge
the government's capacity and commitment, in order to redesign an operation that
effectively responds to the realities in the country;
(e) Project ownership at an early stage is a key factor for moving ahead and
ensuring sustainability of the project outcome. The continued active engagement
of communes and communities in designing and implementing the project is
essential for the success and sustainability of RWSS.



-11-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial   Partial    Negligible   Not applicable
Macro policies                                               El 13  13
Sector policies                      1 .        00
Financial objectives                 1           0                         10
Institutional development            1          1                          El
Physical objectives                  0                       13 03
Poverty reduction                    El         1            13
Gender issues                        L          L                          13
Other social objectives              13                      [1            13
Environmental objectives             O           n           c3
Public sector management             L          LI           I3             0
Private sector development           13         LI                         13
Other (capacity building)            E]         13                        1C
B. Project Sustainability         Likely             Unlikely          Uncertain
13                 13
C. Bank Performance               Highly
Satisfactory       Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                      1                   13                0
Preparation assistance              1                                     13
Appraisal                           1                                     13
Supervision&                        E                                     13
D. Borrower Performance           Highly
Satisfactory          Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation                         0                   IE                1
Implementation                      1                   135
Covenant compliance                 E1 13
Operation                           13                                    13
E. Assessment of Outcome
Highly                                           Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
13             1                              1 3
1 However, the Bank performance as regards the project restracturing was deficient



-12-
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
pLoanCredit Tide                                                             a : Put-rposYrf:  ta-tus
Preceding Operalions
Water Supply I                    Rehabilitation and extension of the water production  1983      Closed
and distributioii facilities in five secondary centers
Preparatory studies for the Second Water Supply
project (engineering studies and institutional study
of the rural water sub-sector).
Following Operations
Community Reintegration and       To strengthen community cohesion and               1998            5
Development Project               decentralized p:rocess of rural infrastructure
Rural Water and Sanilation Project    To demonstrate the merits of a demand-responsive  Under
approach to rural water supply and sanitation,  preparation
involving the private sector participation
Acts as a vehicle for implementing the new rural
Water and Sanitation Strategy                                            I
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps tin lPrecti-- Cycle ;t:0000--    Date Planle                  Dat ActualLatest Estimate
Identification                    December 1983                     December 1983
Preparation                       3 years                           3 years
Appraisal                         September 1986                    September 1986
Negotiations                      March 1987                        March 1987
Board presentation                April 1987                        April 28, 1987
Signing                           May 1987                          August 14, 1987
Effectiveness                     December 31, 1987                 October31, 1988
Project completion                June 30, 1993                     December 31, 1998
Loan closing                      December 31, 1993                 December 31, 1998



-13-
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
(SDR Million)
BaBkpiscal ....... FaX:..   FY&         T9:  -        Y.9 1      -       :       Y923.-.   
Appraisal estimate  0.84     2.76         5.40        7.68         9.72           10.92l
lActual            0.00       1.29         4.93        6.18        7.08           7.85
Actual as % of    0.00       46.73        91.29       80.46        72.83         71.88
estimate
Disbursement      0.54        1.68        4.08        6.72         9.36           1104
profiles for Rural
Water Projects in
Africa
Baik Fiscal Year   FY ..4  FY 5          :FY96        FY97         F9            FY:99
Appraisal estimate  11.88     12.24       12.24        12.24       12.24          12.24
Actual            9.25        9.25        10.03        10.38       11.11          11.27
Actual as % of    77.86      75.57        81.94        84.80       90.76         92.07
estimate
Disbursement       11.64      12.04       12.04        12.04       12.04          12.04
profiles for Rural
Water Projects in
Africa



-14-
TABLE 5: TARGETED AND ACHIEVED OUTPUT
Prodctio  Faclites in th)e Lava Rgo                          _______
Lot 1      Austria       Reservoir (200 m3)    Completed      Mutera (400 m3lday)  Completed            n.a.
Lot 2        AiFD    2 reservoirs (1,000m3)   Comnpleted           Yungwe-Bikore   Completed            n.a.
zl reservoirs (300, 400 & Completed            (6,400 m3lday)
600 m3)
Lot 3         IDA      Reservoir (1,000 m3-  Completed  Mizingo (1,000 m3/day)  Completed             Bisizi Completed
Reservoir (100 m3)    Completed
Lot 4     BADEA             Tero (2,000 m3)    Completed
Lower Mutobo
LotS5         IDA        Mutobo (1,500 m3)    Completed                                             Mutobo Completed
Upper Muitobo
Lot 7       AfDB          Gasizi (2,000 m3)          Not                                           Muhingo         Not
completed                                                    Completed
Kora (700 m3)           Not                                             Gahira       Not
completed                                                    Completed
Suza (700 m3)           Not
completed
Kinigi (200 m3)          Not
completed
_______ Primar and Scondar Newr nteLava Rgo   _______
Lo FnancirT7 Locatio              - Pmryetwork               Secan da  Neor          PuicSadps
_______   _____________SAX Ptii         ttu      SAP1 StowStau          SR Pln   Sptatus
Lot I     Austria             Mutera        4,300       4,300       18,500          -52 
Lot 2       AFL,    Yungwe-Bikore          48,000      48,000       76,000          -195-
Lot 3        ID.      Mizingo-Mutura        7,500       7,500       38,000     14,000          6226
Lot 4    BADEA         Lower Mutobo        39,500      19,508        9,600          -         185          -
Lot 5        IDA.      Upper Mutobo        35,273      35,273      34,000           -85 
Lot 6      AfDP                Cretes      53,000      45,215       85,000          -         205          -
Total    187,573      159,796     261,100     14,000         784         26
% Completed                     85%                      5%                    3%



-15-
TABLE 6: PROJECT INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
N/A
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED INPROJECT
- ..- ..   S udy                 Purpos- as defned at-      - -eru -                    fi Stdy
...    ..,     ........T 
_____ ____ ____ _____   app~ isa /R ed   fin ed_              _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _
I   Assessment of Kigali water   Selection of the source of water  Completed  Confirmation of potential of
supply system              supply and definition of      in 1992     groundwater for supplying Kigali.
investment program and.
2   Rehabilitation of gravity-fed  Preliminary and detailed design   Partly  Detailed design covered 15 systems
systems                    studies in 13 communes.       completed   and more than 700 springs. Only 4
Redefined to cover only 3     in 1997     systems were actually rehabilitated in
communes.                                two communes.
3   Rehabilitation of complex   Preliminary and detailed design   Partly  Detailed design canied out for 4
systems                    and preparation of bidding    completed   systems supplying 9 communes. Works
documents for the rehabilitation  in 1998.    not carried out.
of systems. Redefined to cover 10
communes.
4   Reconnaissance mission - Lot Assessment of condition of   Completed  Completion of sub-lot 3.2 and
3 of Lava Region           system after the war and     in 1996      preparation of bidding documents for
definition of works to complete          the other sub-lots.
Lot 3.
5   Operating costs and user    Definition of cost recovery   Completed  Recommendations adopted
charges study              policies                      in 1997
6   Sensitization program study   Redefinition of conunwnity  Completed  Guidelines adopted by the NGOs
development program after the   in 1997   working with beneficiaries, water
war                                       committees and communes.



-16-
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Estimate     E~st imate.
(USS M)      (US$ M)
Part A. Lava Region
*  Production                                         11.79             10.63
*  Transmission and distribution netvorks             38.53             23.75
*  Supervision                                         3.20              7.44
.  Community development                                                 0.35
Sub-total Part A          53.51              42.17
Part B. Rehabilitation Program
Rehabilitation works                                                  0.95
Studies & supervision                                                 2.77
Sub-total Part B           13.36              3.72
Part C. Capacity Building
*  Technical assistance                                0.98              0.41
*  Training                                            1.44              1.03
o  Project Unit;                                       2.28              2.75
a  Equipment                                           0.64              0.29
Sub-total Part C            5.33              4.47
Refunding of Project preparation A,dvance                                0.73
Total                                =     =       .72.20            51.09
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Sour                       Apprasal. 70               A tuaI
P nstria                                          97 9.04
BADEA                                              7.25                  2.80
AFD                                              16.00                 15.50
IDA                                               15.00                 15.34
IIUNDP                                             0.70                  0.00
Switzerland                                        8.30                  1.31
AfDB                                              12.50                  4.06
Canada                                             0.00                  0.30
Communes                                           1.55                  0.00
Government                                         3.90                  2.75
T'OTAL                                            72.20                 51.09



-17-
TABLE 9: EcONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Not applicable
TABLE 10: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Section:   Status    Original Date- Descripti :of Covenants          Comments.
2.02 (b)    C         12/12/87        Open a special account in dollars  Account opened in January 1989
at Banque nationale du Rwanda
3.03       C          12/12/87        Establish a Project Coordination   Contract signed 06122/88 with Consultants.
Unit, consisting of a Project  PCU staffed completely with nationals; contrac
Coordinator, a Hydraulic       terminated end-1993.
Engineer and an Accountant
(Hydraulic Engineer replaced by a
Sociologist)
3.05 (a)    NC        12/31/88        Cause 11 communes in the Lava   Delayed because of late effectiveness.
Region to establish two inter-  Associations established in mid-I 992. Ceased
communal associations         to exist after the 1994 war. Security conditions
in the Lava Region prevented re-establishment
of the inter-communal associations. Local wate
user associations have been set up at the
functional water delivery points.
3.05 (b)    NC        12/31/88        Cause 11 communes in the Lava   Delayed due to late effectiveness. The 11 user
Region to employ necessary staff  associations were established in 1992 but
disbanded in 1994. No longer applicable, due to
current security conditions.
3.06 (a)    NC       09/15/1989       Include in proposed budget     Complied in 1989-1991. Delayed since 1992.
counterpart funds and on       No longer applicable as DCA was amended on
September 15 of each year     July 29, 1996 to allow 100% financing except
provide such information to IDA   for local expenditures financed at 95%
3.07 (a)    NC        12/12/1987      Establish as sub-account of CDF,  Account of NFRWS opened on 10/28/88. CDF
a national fund for rural water  never became operational.
supply (NFRWS)
3.07 (b)    NC        12/12/1987      Prepare and adopt a set of rules    Done in August 1988. Revision proposed in
for operation and management of  January 1991 but never adopted, as the NFRWS
NFRWS                          never became operational.
3.07 (c)    NC       Effectiveness    Deposit in the NFRWS in RwF    20 million RwF deposited on 11/02/88. 16
equivalent of US$200,000 and   million RwF deposited for 1989 on 01/09/90.
same amount on March 15 of     16 million RwF approved for 1990. Not
each year                      complied with in 1991 and 1992. Deposits
made in 1990 and 1991 used as counterpart
funds, due to the ineffectiveness of CDF.
3.08 (c)    NC        12/31/92        Establish gradually and no later   In progress at a very slow pace until April
than 12/31/92 anew             1994.
organizational structure of DGE
(Arrete 03/24/1987)



-18-
,etir  .Sta-f-ls    Ongna Dtt-  Decito =;                       . =oeo~s  ~ le
3.09       NC         10/3111988       Not later than October 31 of each  Done for 1989 and 1990 budgets. Detailed
year, furnish for IDA review   information on investment programn available in
DGE's proposed annual budget    progress reports. Budget for 1991 not officially
and an updated three-year       approved. Budget for 1992 is 49 million RwF
investiment program for the rural  (budget not officially approved). Not complied
water subsector.                with in October 1992 because general 1993
budget was not prepared on time. Not complied
with afterwards.
3.10       NC         12/31/1987       Recruit each year, starting     Recruitment of engineers and technicians very
12/31/1992 five engineers and  difficult under present circumstances. Eight
technicians for DGE             regional decentralized technicians have been
appointed in 1995.
4.01 (b)    C         06/30/1989       Audit special account each year    Complied with
and furnish to IDA certified copy
no later than 06/30
4.02 (b)    NC        06/30/1989       Audit DGE and NFRWS accounts Not applicable, due to current country
each year and furnish to IDA    conditions (NFRWS not operational and DGE's
certified copies no later than  accounts not available)
06/30
4.03        C         06130/1988       Furnish list of auditors for    Complied with
approval
4.04        CP                         Cause communal committees       Wherever committees exist (Musambira,
with assistance of DGE to review   Rutobwe and Mutura), they have set up tariffs
water tariffs; deposit revenue into  and deposit revenues in separate account. Audit
separate account audited each   covenant not applicable in current country
year by Borrower's inspectors   conditions.
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Not applicable



-19-
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
-  -::- - ., , ,.,,  ,,.  .............  .   ..  .    ........
= Stg     o--t -C-   - - -l-eA                                  - al  -:    -      tu:  -
.....................................
.   ...........   S*WweeksU$JO
Preparation to appraisal                       34.90                              73.4
Appraisal                                      30.00                              75.0
Negotiations through Board                       0.60                             1.4
approval
Supervision                                   217.20                             558.3
Completion                                       1.90                             1.4
Other lending costs                             0.20                              21.4
Total                                          284.8                             730.9



-20-
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: IMISSIONS
Stage of ?PrjectU;  Mrat,    N ber oN      Specialzed         Pe1ornce Ratint0 Xjg:f            Ty  of reblemsa
y c le:      :Yeair     er:::      S taff ,Sklls
Rerssfd   lmlletaks         levlpsa
status         Obecives
Through Appraisal
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Board through
effectiveness
Supervision 1        3/88                     EN                I                1
Supervision 2        10/88       3        EN, FA CON            I
Supervision 3        489          1           EN               2
Supervision 4        11,89        1           EN       _       2                 1         Project Management
Supervision 5        5.'90        1           EN               2                 I
Supervision 6        19                       EN               3                 2         Counterpart Funds,
Procurement
Supervision 7        5/'91        1           EN               3                 2         Project Management,
Counterpart Funds,
Procurement
Supervision 8        11/91       3        FA, EN,CON           3                 3         Counterpart Funds,
Procurement
Supervision 9        4'92         1           EN               3                 3         Project Management,
Counterpart Funds
Supervision 10       7'92        3            EN               2                 2
Supervision 11      10-11,'92    3        FA, EN,CON           2                 2
Supervision 12      4-5/93       3        FA EN,CON            2                 2         Counterpart Funds
Supervision 13      L1'94        2          FA, EN             2                 2
Supervision 14       5,95        2          EN, FA             U                 U         Project Management,
Counterpart Funds,
Procurement, Audit
Supervision 15       11/95       3        PO, FA,CON           U                 U         Counterpart Funds, Audit
Supervision 16       5'96        3        PO, EN,CON           S                 S
Supervision 17       11]/96      3        PO, EN, PA           S                 S         Counterpart Funds
Supervision 18       4'97        3        PO, EN, SPO          U                 S         Project Management
Supervision 19       3'98        3        PO, WS, EN           U                 U         Project Management, Audit
Completion           12/98       2          PO, WS             U                HU         Project Management, Legal
Covenants
Staff Skills                                         Performance Ratings
CON - Consultant                                     1 - Minor or No Problerns
EN Engineer                                          2 - MvIoderate Problems
FA - Financial Analyst                               3 - MVfajor Problem
PO - Project Officer                                 S Satisfactory
SPO - Sector Project Officer                         U Unsatisfactory
WS - Water Supply SpeciELlist                        HU Highly Unsatisfactory



-21-
ANNEX A
RWANDA
MINISTERE DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS
DIRECTION DE L'EAU ET DE L'ASSAINISSEMENT
DEUXIEME PROJET D'ALIMENTATION EN EAU (CR. 1783-RW)
ET IDENTIFICATION D'UN NOUVEAU PROJET
Aide-memoire
Introduction
Une mission de l'IDA, composee de M. Richard Verspyck, charge de projet, de Melle
Marie-Chantal Uwanyiligira, chargee de programme et de M. Aimable Uwizeye,
conseiller sectoriel (GREA-AEA) a proc6de du 30 novembre au 12 decembre 1998, a la
supervision finale du deuxieme projet d'alimentation en eau et a la poursuite de la
preparation d'un eventuel projet d'alimentation en eau et de l'assainissement en milieu
rural. La mission a egalement discute avec le MINAGRI des perspectives de
collaboration entre le Rwanda et l'IDA pour la gestion des ressources en eau dans le
cadre de l'initiative du Nil. La mission a pu rencontrer les representants de I'UJNICEF, de
l'Union europ6enne, et les Ambassades de Suisse et d'Allemagne.
La mission tient a remercier les Autorites Rwandaises, et plus particulierement M. le
Ministre des Travaux Publics, M. le Secretaire general du MINITRAP, Mme la Secretaire
G6n6rale du MINECOFTN, M. le Secretaire Executif du CEPEX, la Direction de l'Eau et
de l'Assainissement (DEA) et l'equipe du CRDP pour leur accueil et leur cooperation.
Le present aide-memoire reflete les observations et recommandations de la mission. La
Mission R6sidente de la Banque Mondiale sollicitera I' approbation du Gouvernement et
participera au suivi de l'execution du plan d'action qui est propos6 dans ce document.
Resume des principales observations et recommandations de la mission
1.   La mission et Ia DEA-ont 1&qu~ leur accord :'t"es   te le I..-I calendrir d
pr&paration du rapport - ah'Yen -du De~e. -rje daimetao en   ---~. .
2.-  S:'aissant d'un nouveau- poet,IeMNTRPet I missio  nmau  eur raccor
sur une approehe participative et d~entraIis~e~ s'appuyautrste  l es intanes
comunautaire en-c.urs ..de mis- .  en. pl. ....      et a.li              pa.
-ailleursIa nec   e ci.erepret surnombremeste rit de-commnets ren e7utsant
des eritfres de  ch.oixtaspaents.;-:.--..--:         -:.:-.
3.- LeMetIaDEA                  a        r acrd -epri           -d'un mi  onde
-spec.iaiistes de 1-agest-ion de.sressures en etde I'DAvrs - a fi a umi  ej.v
Les objectifs de la deriere mission de supervision avant la cloture fixee au 31 decembre
1998 etaient de faire le point des realisations du projet et de lancer la preparation du
rapport d'pachevement.



-22-
Activites et financement du projet
Les derniers travaux finances par le projet (rehabilitation d'une adduction gravitaire dans
la commune Musambira) ont ete acheves en novembre 1998. Les seules activites en cours
concernent la sensibilisation A 1'autogestion (contrats Aramet a Mutura et Duhamic-Adri
A Musambira et Rutobwe).
La mission a fait le point avec la DEA des marches non encore soldes sur financement de
1'IDA et du don suisse. Selon les estimations de la DEA, les soldes A regler, compte tenu
des dernieres demandes de retrait de fonds s'61lvent a l'6quivalent de 37 500 dollars sur
le credit et 81 800 dollars sur le don suisse. I1 reste egalement A payer 3,1 millions FRW
au titre de la contrepartie sur les travaux. La mission a rappele que les demandes de
retrait de fonds sur le credit pourront encore etre presentees apres la date de cl6ture
pendant une p6riode A confirmer avec le service des d6caissements, mais uniquement
pour des prestations rendues avant la date de cl6ture.
Dans ces conditions, il faudra demander A Ecobex de constituer une caution pour
permettre le paiemnent du solde de la retenue de garantie (3,6 millions FRW). Les contrats
de sensibilisation devant normalement s'achever fin mars 1999, le financement de leur
continuation au-delA de la date de cl6ture pourrait etre assuree par l'avance de fonds PPF.
ll en sera de mrmne pour le demier audit qui couvrira la periode allant du ler janvier 1998
A la date du dernier decaissement.
Impact du projet
Ce projet avait ete con,u pour desservir 400 000 personnes dans la Region des Laves
(Partie A) et pour mettre en place un programme national de rehabilitation des adductions
simples et complexes (Partie B) pour un couit estimatif total de 72 millions de dollars. A
la cl6ture, les depenses totales du projet, tous financements confondus, s'elevent A
environ 48 millions de dollars pour la Partie A et 3,5 millions de dollars pour la Partie B.
Les circonstances exceptionnelles dans lesquelles ce projet s'est deroule font que ces
investissements sont sans commune mesure avec leur impact reel en termes de desserte.
Le projet a permis en effet de construire les installations de production, d'adduction et les
reseaux primaires de la Region des Laves qui etaient acheves pour l'essentiel avant 1994.
La guerre, puis l'indisponibilite des financements et l'insecurite n'ont permis
l'achevement que d'un seul lot de distribution sur les douze prevus a l'origine qui fournit
de l'eau potable a environ 40 000 personnes dans la commune de Mutura.
L'impact de la Partie B a lui aussi ete limite par l'indisponibilite de la majorite du
financement prevu pour les travaux. Les etudes ont couvert trois communes et une
adduction regionale et defini les besoins de rehabilitation de 729 sources am6nagees, 15
adductions simples et de I'adduction de Mayaga-Bugesera. La population potentiellement
concernee par ces etudes s'eleve a 200 000 personnes. Les travaux realises concernent 4
adductions simples et 277 sources desservant moins de 50 000 habitants A Rutobwe et
Musambira.
Le projet n'a pas pu non plus atteindre ses objectifs de renforcement des capacites et de
reforme institutionnelle visant A ameliorer la perennite des services d'alimentation en eau



-23-
potable. Le Fonds national de l'Hydraulique rurale (FNHR) qui devait assurer
l'encadrement du Programme national de rehabilitation n'ajamais et cree et les deux
regies intercommunales qui devaient gerer l'adduction de la Region des Laves n'ont pu
etre mises en place. Cependant, les actions de sensibilisation menees aupres des
communautes beneficiaires des installations realisees ont permis de redynamiser deux
regies associatives et de constituer pres de 500 comites de points d'eau. L'excellent
rapport de CEGEAC sur la revue a mi-parcours des actions de sensibilisation demontre le
succes de ces actions (surtout a Musambira oiu la sensibilisation a commence bien avant
les travaux) avec une participation substantielle des femmes. Musambira et Mutura sont
pratiquement les seules communes du Rwanda (avec Ngenda) ou les populations
financent elles-memes une partie, sinon la totalite des charges d'exploitation des reseaux
en payant 1'eau au jerrican.
Rapport d'achevement
La mission a revu avec la DEA et le CEPEX le processus de preparation du rapport
d'achevement du projet et leur a remis une note (Annexe 1) decrivant en detail les etapes
et les responsabilites respectives de l'Emprunteur et de l'IDA.
La DEA a designe M. Simon Ndutiye, chef de la division de l'hydraulique rurale comme
coordonnateur de la preparation de la contribution rwandaise. Le CEPEX a egalement
designe une responsable du suivi de la preparation du rapport d'achevement (Mme
Drocella Kagwesage). La contribution rwandaise comprend:
(a)   la collecte des donnees et informations sur les conditions economiques,
techniques, financieres, sociales, institutionnelles et environnementales
dans lesquelles le projet a ete ex6cute et les resultats obtenus par rapport
au calendrier de 1' accord de credit. Il est pr6vu que ces informations seront
disponibles le 15 janvier 1999.
(b)   un plan pour la phase operationnelle du projet qui decrira les modalites
d'exploitation et de fonctionnement des installations realisees (aspects
techniques, gestion et recouvrement des couits) ainsi que les dispositions a
prendre pour assurer la perennite des installations et pour valoriser a une
date ulterieure les depenses (investissements physiques ou etudes) qui
n'ont pu aboutir a des realisations completes. Ce document, incluant des
indicateurs de performance, sera disponible le 30 janvier 1999.
(c)   un rapport d'evaluation finale dans la perspective de l'Emprunteur (fin
fevrier 1999).
(d)   des commentaires sur la contribution de l'IDA, lorsque celle-ci sera
disponible (fin mars 1999).
B. PREPARATION D'UN NOUVEAU PROJET
Cadre general et objectifs
L'identification d'un nouveau projet d'amnlioration de l'alimentation en eau potable et de
l'assainissement (AEPA) s'est inscrite dans le cadre general de la strat6gie d'assistance



-24-
de la Banque au Rwanda et de la politique de developpement du secteur de I'AEPA
adoptee par le Gouvernement. Les discussions avec le Gouvernement sur la strategie
d'assistance ont conduit a envisager deux operations successives pour le secteur de
1'AEPA, dont la premiere concernerait le milieu rural oui consultations et enquees
preparatoires de la strategie d'assistance avaient montre que l'eau etait la priorite num6ro
un des populations, en particulier des femmes.
Le document de politique sectorielle met l'accent sur la n6cessite : (a) d'adopter une
approche fondee sur la demande, pour retablir et developper les services d'AEPA de
mani6re durable, avec une participation effective des populations; (b) de reforrner le
cadre institutionnel du secteur par la decentralisation des responsabilites de conception,
realisation et gestion des installations; (c) de reformuler les politiques de recouvrement
des couts; et (d) de renforcer les capacites locales pour leur faciliter la prise en charge
effective de leurs :nouvelles responsabilites.
L'objectif d'un nouveau projet serait de demontrer qu'une amelioration durable de
1'acces et de l'utilisation des installations d'.AEPA peut etre atteinte a travers un
processus de d6centralisation et de participation communautaire par:
(a)   le de&veloppement d'installations con,ues par les communaut6s de base en
accord avec les priorites definies de maniere participative au niveau
cornmunal.
(b)   la rnobilisation du soutien des communautes a la gestion et 1' exploitation
des installations avec l'assistance du secteur prive et des ONG.
Note: La version finale de / 'aide-memoire comprendra en annexe la description du
cadre de conceptiosn du projet ("logical framework") qui aide a definir les objectifs,
composantes et resultats attendus du projet, ainsi que les risques et les hypotheses de
base qui conditionnent ces resultats.
Les composantes du projet pourraient etre les suivantes:
(a)   une composante centree sur le developpement des services d'AEPA dans
un cadre communal.
(b)   une composante centree sur le r6tablissement des services d'AEP dans un
contexte intercommunal (rehabilitation participative d'une adduction
conaplexe).
(c)   une composante de renforcement des capacit6s
Approche d'intervention
Decentralisation et participation communautaire ont fait l'objet d'une reflexion en
profondeur au Rwanda, ou elles devraient constituer des outils essentiels d'aide au
developpement et a la reintegration sociale. Le MININTER a defini un cadre
institutionnel constitue par des comit6s de developpement elus au niveau des cellules,
puis des secteurs et enfin un comite de developpement communautaire (CDC) au niveau



-25-
communal. Des projets finances par les partenaires au developpement, dont l'IDA,
s'appuient sur ce cadre pour mettre en oeuvre des programmes de projets des groupes
communautaires de base. Le projet de reintegration et de developpement communautaire
finance par l'IDA (CRDP, Cr. 333 8-RW) est le premier a tester cette approche dans un
programme pilote multi-sectoriel dont les modalites de mise en ceuvre (programmation,
conception, selection des projets, passation des marches, gestion financi6re et comptable)
ont ete definies en detail dans un manuel d'execution.
La mission et le MINITRAP considerent que le nouveau projet devrait adopter une
demarche identique, tout en conservant la specificite propre a I'AEPA. L'etude de la
refonte du cycle des projets permettra d'effectuer les ajustements n6cessaires et de
pr6parer le manuel d'execution du projet.
II existe deux options fondamentales pour le proj et: soit essayer de couvrir une large
portion du territoire et un maximum de communes, soit se concentrer sur un nombre
limite de communes. Le MINITRAP et la mission s'accordent pour retenir la deuxieme
option, qui permet de mieux satisfaire la demande au niveau d'une commune et de
renforcer la cohesion sociale, alors qu'un saupoudrage d'investissements laisserait une
grande partie de la demande insatisfaite et creerait des tensions. I1 faudra naturellement
definir des criteres objectifs, transparents et comprehensibles par tous pour le choix des
communes traitees par le projet.
Un autre choix fondamental est celui des modalites de realisation des travaux:
ONG/beneficiaires ou entreprises ? Les analyses du milieu rural mettent en evidence la
raret6 de la main ceuvre et deconseillent fornellement d'avoir recours a des contributions
volontaires en main ceuvre quand le milieu rural a surtout besoin d'un apport de revenus
mon6taires. L'experience du programme UNICEF montre pourtant qu'il est possible de
mobiliser les communautes pour executer les travaux et que la combinaison encadrement
ONG/travaux communautaires couite nettement moins cher que les travaux a 1'entreprise.
11 semble premature d'effectuer un choix definitif, dans la mesure ou~ le developpement
des capacites locales passe aussi par le developpement des entreprises.
Avancement des activites de preparation
Un premier ensemble d'etudes preparatoires a deja ete r6alise sur financement du GREA-
AEA: le rapport sur les adductions complexes et l'etude des regies associatives. Ce
dernier document met clairement en evidence les difficultes inherentes a la couverture
communale des regies, qui sont au mieux percues comme un accessoire de la commune et
ne parviennent pas a emporter l'adhesion et la participation. Les conclusions de la revue a.-
mi-parcours de la sensibilisation rejoignent d'ailleurs entierement celles de cette etude.
La mission a donne sa non-objection (par lettre separee) au choix du consultant charge de
l'etude de la refonte du cycle des projets et du cadre institutionnel. Cette etude devrait
pouvoir debuter a la fin du mois de janvier 1999. La DEA mettra prealablement en place
son equipe de preparation composee d'un coordonnateur (le chef de la DHR) et d'un
ingenieur et d'un sociologue qui seront affectes a temps plein sur le projet.
En dehors de l'etude du cycle des projets, les activites preparatoires comprennent
notamment:



-26-
(a)   une enquete sur la volonte a payer pour l'eau et l'assainissement et une
etude du recouvrement des couits
(b)   des enquetes sur les modalit6s actuelles d'approvisionnement en eau
potable ("etat zero") et des analyses participatives des facteurs de la
demande
(c)   la definition et la mise en ceuvre d'une strategie de communication et de
marketing
(d)   l'analyse de l'impact du projet sur l'environnement
(e)   la definition du programme de formation (methodes participatives,
education sanitaire, gestion communautaire, assainissement a faible couit)
Les termes de reference de ces etudes seront prepares par la DEA avec l'assistance du
conseiller sectoriel GREA-AEA. Le programme de formation sera d6fini dans le cadre de
l'etude du cycle cles projets en valorisant auL maximum les programmes de formation et
les outils didactiques existants.
Gestion financiere et comptable
La mission a rappele que la revue des capacites de gestion comptable et financi&re des
agences d'ex6cution etait un prealable a l'valuation d'un projet par l'IDA et que le
systeme et les oulils de gestion devaient ere en place avant la mise en vigueur. Le
MINITRAP a indique qu'il souhaitait pour sa part mettre en place un systeme de gestion
financiere des projets sous la responsabilite d'un comptable recrute sous contrat. La
mission suggere qu'une premiere revue des systemes existants et des besoins specifiques
au projet soit effectuee par le specialiste de gestion financiere de la mission residente de
Bujumbura, qui pourra elaborer les termes de ref6rence de consultants specialises. Durant
la periode de preparation, la comptabilite de la PPF pourra etre tenue par le comptable
contractuel du M1LNITRA-P.
Financement des activites de preparation
La lettre d'accord de l'avance de fonds PPF devrait &re incessamment transmise a M. le
Ministre des Finances pour contresignature. Le budget indicatif des activites financees
dans le cadre de l'avance de fonds PPF figure en annexe 3.
Calendrier de preparation
Sous reserve d'un. deroulement normal des activites preparatoires, les principales etapes
du processus d'approbation du projet pourraient etre les suivantes
* evaluation par l'IDA: juillet 1999
* negociations: septembre 1999
* approbation par les administrateurs de t'IDA: octobre 1999
* entree en vigueur: dcembre 1999



-27-
C. GESTION DES RESSOURCES EN EAU
La mission a tenu une reunion avec le MINAGRI et la DEA concernant la requ&te
d'assistance a la mise en ceuvre de la politique sectorielle de gestion des ressources en
eau presentee par le MINAGRI a 1'IDA. En complement de la lettre adressee en reponse
par M. Mbi, Directeur p.i. des operations pour le Rwanda, la mission a expose qu'il etait
possible d'envoyer une mission de specialistes des ressources en eau (incluant Mine
Busia et M. Abrams qui ont deja travaill6 sur la politique sectorielle) a Kigali vers la fin
du mois de janvier 1999. Le MINAGRI a reagi favorablement a cette proposition, ainsi
qu'a la perspective d'un projet GEF. La DEA et le MINAGRI ont de plus fait part a la
mission des pr6occupations grandissantes que suscite l'absence de coordination des
actions de mobilisation des ressources en eau, particulierement aux environs immediats
de la capitale.
D. RAPPEL DES MESURES ET ACTIONS
Le detail et le calendrier des mesures et actions agreees figure en annexe 4.
Kigali, le 12 decembre 1998
Pour la mission,
Richard Verspyck
Charg6 de Projet



-28-
ANNEX B
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION FROM THE BORROWER PERSPECTIVE
RAPPORT DE FIN D'EXECUTION DU DEUXIEME PROJET EAU
(CR. IDA 1783 - RW)
1. INTRODUCTION
Dans le cadre de l'amelioration de l'alimentation en eau potable de la population, le
Gouvemement Rwandais a negocie un financement aupres des Bailleurs des fonds et un accord
de credit y relatif fut signe entre le Gouvemement Rwandais et l'IDA le 14 aofit 1987. II s'agit
d'un financement ;pour un ensemble d'activites de rehabilitation et d'extension des adductions
d'eau en milieu rural, appele DEUXIEME PROJET EAU.
Ce Projet s'inscrivait dans de la cadre de la mise en application d'une nouvelle politique du
pays qui venait d'etre adoptee et qui voulait que les usagers prennent en charge les infrastructures
d'AEP. Or a cette epoque l'etat de la plupart des infrastructures hydrauliques existantes dans
certaines zones du pays tait tres mauvais. Dans d'autres zones, ces infrastructures etaient
insuffisantes. 11 fallait donc, pour asseoir cette nouvelle politique, proceder a la rehabilitation et a
l'extension des infrastructures hydrauliques.
Malheureusement tous les objectifs du projet n'ont pas ete atteints pour differentes raisons qui
seront evoquees plus loin. Neanmoins Id oui on a rehabilite les systemes d'alimentation en eau
potable, on constate une bonne gestion et un bon fonctionnement des installations sous lYenti&re
responsabilit6 des usagers.
2. OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
*  Rehabilitation et extension des systemes d'eau existants en milieu rural
*  Amelioration ide la qualite. et l'augmentation de la quantite de l'eau foumie a la population
rurale dans tout le pays.
*  Renforcement de l'organisation, de l'exploitation et la gestion des systemes d'eau au niveau
de la Direction de l'Eau et Assainissement et des communes rurales
*  Creation d'un Fonds National de l'hydraulique Rurale (FNHR).
Le projet comprenait 2 parties:
* Partie A.: Projet AEP Region des Laves au Nord - Ouest du Rwanda
* Partie B : Rehabilitation des Adductions d'Eau en Milieu Rural (RAEMR)
La partie A comprenait 2 phases:
La  ere phase conceme la construction des reseaux primaires, une station de pompage et les
reservoirs importants. La 2eme phase concerne la construction des reseaux secondaires pour
penmettre l'alimentation en des populations aux bomes fontaines.
La Partie A dtL projet est subdivisee en 7 Lots. Pour cette partie A, les objectifs n'ont pas et
atteints. En effet le reseau primaire des seuls lots 1, 2, 3 et 5 a ete realise tandis que celui des lots
4, 6 et 7 n'a pas ete acheve. Quant aux reseaux secondaires il n'y a que le sous-lot 3.2 (en
commune Mutura' qui a et construit. Autrement dit la population de la Region des Laves ne
dispose pas d'eau potable malgre que les infrastructures liees au reseau primaires soient en place
dans certaines zones. L'objectif n'a pas pu etre atteint pour des raisons variees:
1. Montage du projet trop ambitieux et trop grand du point de vue fonds et donc des donateurs a
mobiliser et urie vaste zone du projet avec un relief assez accidente
2. La situation de- guerre au Rwanda et plus particulierement dans cette region de 1990 a 1994
suivie d'un grand mouvement de population, d'instabilite et d'insecurite de 1997 a 1998



-29-
3. Le retrait de tous les Bailleurs de Fonds, apres la guerre, sauf la Banque Mondiale
4. Environnement politique defavorable de 1990 a 1994 qui ne pernet pas une mobilisation
suffisante de l'Administration Rwandaise y compris les cadres de la DEA pour une bonne
coordination et suivi du projet
5. Environnement socio-politique difficile de l'apres-guerre et genocide, en tout cas defavorable
a la mobilisation de fonds importants pour des projets de developpement comme celui-ci afin
de prendre la releve des bailleurs de fond absents
Quant a la partie B, l'objectif d'ameliorer la qualite et d'augmenter la quantite n'a e
atteinte que tres partiellement. En effet, les adductions simples des trois communes de la
prefecture de Gitarama au centre du pays ont fait l'objet d'etudes de rehabilitation y compris les
sources. I1 s'agit de RUTOBWE, MUSAMBIRA et NYABIKENKE. I1 etait envisage d'etendre
les etudes aux autres prefectures du pays. Malheureusement, meme pour ces trois communes,
seuls les systemes de la commune de Rutobwe ont e  completement rehabilites sur une longueur
totale de 25,3 km pour les adductions gravitaires simples et 236 sources ont e  rehabilitees et / ou
amenagees.
En Commune Musambira, une adduction longue de 35 Km a ete rehabilitee mais les 156
sources n'ont pas pu etre rehabilitees et/ ou d'amenagees, ce qui veut dire que l'on a servi
seulement 20% de la population de cette commune (horizon 2015). En commune Nyabikenke, les
etudes avaient e menees pour rehabiliter 9 adductions longues de 79,2 km et 337 petites sources
mais les travaux d'execution n'ont pas e  faits. Par ailleurs, des etudes pour adductions
complexes ont ete realisees en prefecture de Gitarama, dans la region de Mayaga, mais iA n y a
pas eu de travaux.
Sur le plan institutionnel le FNHR qui faisait le gros de cette partie n'a pas vu le jour. En
effet, le Fonds devait etre un guichet du Fonds de Developpement Communal (FDC) qui, non
plus, n'a pas et reellement fonctionnel. Le mauvais fonctionnement du FDC a enormement
entrave la creation du FNHR. Par ailleurs, apres la guerre d'avril 1994, la creation du FNHR n'a
pas e  reprise dans les activites reconduites du projet malgre que cet objectif a e  maintenu du
fait de la non reformulation des objectifs de depart en vue de s'adapter a la nouvelle realite
marquee par le retrait de la plupart des Bailleurs avec pour consequence une enveloppe restreinte
qui ne permettrait donc pas la realisation des objectifs initiaux du projet.
3. CONCEPTION DU PROJET:
Le proj et a ete concu dans le souci d'augmenter la desserte en eau et d'aameliorer la gestion
des systemes d'AEP. Neanmoins, l'aspect institutionnel avait une place de choix. En effet apres
la creation de la Direction Generale de l'Eau (devenue actuellement Direction de l'Eau et
Assainissement) en 1984 avec le Ier projet EAU, une etude institutionnelle financee par la Banque
Mondiale a demarre en 1985 pour se terminer en 1987 avec l'adoption de la nouvelle politique de
gestion des systemes d'AEP. Elle est caracterisee par la prise en charge des infrastructures d'eau
par les b6neficiaires. Compte tenu de l'etat vetuste des systemes d'eau, leur rehabilitation et-
extension etait un prealable a cette prise en charge. Ainsi est ne le projet avec un volet
institutionnel important pour renforcer la jeune Direction Generale qui venait d'etre creee mais
aussi appuyer des structures de gestion envisagees.
Sur le plan technique les systemes d'AEP de la region des Laves sont tres complexes:
station de traitement, pompage avec usage d'energie electrique, systemes d'AEP avec structures
d'autogestion intercommunale, etc .... Toutefois, c'etait la solution techniquement adaptee qui
permettrait d'alimenter toute la region. En effet, la r6gion des Laves du fait de la nature du
substrat volcaniques dispose d'un reseau hydrographique tres faible malgre la forte pluviosit6
(1.500 mm/an). La raret6 des ressources exploitables ne pouvait qu'imposer la seule voie des
adductions complexes.



-30-
Sur le plan de la gestion des infrastructures a mettre en place, il a e  concu un systeme de
gestion au niveau communal (la regie associative) et intercommunal pour les adductions
intercommunales (Associations intercommunales). Considerant la complexite des installations
envisagees, il etait previsible que les usagers ne sauraient les gerer techniquement surtout les
stations de traitement et le reseau primaire. De ce fait, I1 a et prevu le recrutement d'une societe
d'exploitation (par voie d'appel d'offre) pour assurer la gestion des installations complexes.
Concemant la partie B, il s'agissait essentiellement de la rehabilitation des adductions
existantes (adductions simples, adductions complexes) ainsi que la rehabilitation et/ ou
l'amenagement des petites sources. Pour la plupart de ces infrastructures, elles sont localisees sur
le territoire comrmunal excepte I'adduction Mayaga-Bugesera qui dessert 6 communes dont 4
situees en prefecture de Gitarama et 2 en prefecture de Butare. Cette demiere longue d'environ
165 km dispose d'une station de traitement mais l'eau est distribuee gravitairement. Au niveau de
la gestion il a ete prevu de mettre en place des r6gies associatives dans chaque commune couverte
par le projet afin que les usagers puissent eux-memes assurer la gestion de leurs systemes avec
I'appui des autorites locales.
Au-dela de la conception technique du projet, le FNHR constituait une vraie innovation
dans le secteur de l'eau dans la mesure ou les dons et credits destines a I'AEP devaient etre verses
dans ce Fonds pour enfin etre redistribues dans les communes selon les besoins et priorites
identifies. En outre, les fonds de renouvellement issus du paiement de 1'eau par les usagers d'eau
devaient etre deposes au FNHR et generer des interets pour les communes.
Donc au niveau conception, le projet a considere trois aspects importants:
l'aspect technique;
l'aspect gestion des systemes rehabilit6s et/ou cre6s;
I'aspect institutionnel.
4. MONTAGE DU PROJET:
Le montage a e  fait en tenant compte de 2 parties du projet en vue de faciliter l'execution.
4.1. Partie A
Compte tenu de la complexite de cette partie du projet (reseau complexe A rehabiliter,
diverses entreprises et bureaux de contr6le, divers bailleurs de Fonds, divers partenaires), il a ete
juge bon de mettre en place une structure speciale de gestion du projet.
4.1.1 Montage institutionnel:
La Direction Generale de l'Eau (DGE) d'alors devenue actuellement Direction de l'Eau et
de l'Assainissement (DEA) avait la responsabilite premiere d'assurer la coordination du projet en
tant que maitre d'cruvre. Neanmoins, une Cellule de Projet (recrutee par voie d'appel d'offre) fut
mise sur pied avec pour mandat d'assurer la gestion des marches et comptable de l'ensemble du
projet. Au sein de la cellule ont ete integres un Fonctionnaire Dirigeant et un comptable designe
par la Direction Generale de l'Eau. Enfin, un Comite de suivi comprenant tous les Bailleurs de
Fonds se reunissant 2 fois par an A Kigali avec l'Administration et la Cellule de Projet en vue de
passer en revue l'avancement d'activites du projet et des problemes eventuels survenus. Ce cadre
de rencontre permettait aux Bailleurs de Fonds de suivre l'ex6cution des differents volets du
projet.
Ce montage assez couiteux et nuisible au developpement des capacites nationales n'a pas
e  repris en 1996. L'administration a mis en place un fonctionnaire dirigeant pour travailler avec
l'ingenieur conseil.
4.1.2 Montage technique:
Afin de faciliter A la fois l'execution du projet et la gestion des marches, le projet a ete
decoupe en lots (de 1 A 7) pour les ouvrages primaires executes par les entreprises et redecoupe
en sous- lots pour les ouvrages secondaires pour les rendre accessibles aux ONG et PME. Ce



-31-
redecoupage devait permettre a chaque financier du reseau primaire de suivre les travaux
secondaires dont il a assure les foumitures. Dans le cadre du suivi des travaux, les bureaux de
surveillance et contr6le d'abord pour reseaux primaires et ensuite pour reseaux secondaires ont
e  recrutes. La Cellule de Projet representait l'administration etait chargee de la gestion des
marches.
4.2 Partie B
4.2.1 Montage institutionnel:
La complexite des travaux et le nombre de Bailleurs de Fonds n'etant la meme qu'a la
partie A du projet, le montage etait moins lourd. En effet, la Direction de l'Eau et Assainissement
assurait la coordination du projet a travers un Fonctionnaire Dirigeant.
4.2.2 Montage technique:
Dans le cadre de la technique, un Ingenieur Conseil charge de la surveillance et de la
comptabilite a ete recrute pour les adductions simples. I1 travaillait en collaboration avec le
Fonctionnaire Dirigeant nomme par l'Administration. Les marches etaient attribues et geres par
cette equipe (Ingenieur conseil et le Fonctionnaire Dirigeant). Les travaux devaient etre executes
par des entreprises locales
4. 3. Montage financier:
Pour le projet AEP Region des Laves, chaque lot (1 a 7) avait son propre Bailleur pour les
reseaux et les ouvrages primaires et secondaires.
Pour la partie B on n'avait que l'IDA et la Cooperation Suisse qui a finance la
rehabilitation des adductions simples ainsi que la sensibilisation de la population en vue de mettre
en place des r6gies associatives.
5. FINANCEMENT
Le projet a e  finance par des prets et dons de plusieurs Bailleurs de Fonds et la
contribution de l'Etat Rwandais. L'ensemble du projet est subdivise en lots chacun ayant son (ou
ses) bailleur.
La partie A couvrant toute la region des Laves a et co-financee comme suit:
Lot 1: Caisse Francaise de Developpement
Lot 2: Autriche
Lot 3: IDA et le Budget de Developpement,
Lot 4: BADEA et l'Etat Rwandais
Lot 5 : IDA et le Budget de Developpement.
Lot 6 et 7: FAD et l'Etat Rwandais
Chaque Bailleur dispose de ses principes de decaissement auxquels l'Emprunteur devait se
conformer.
La partie B concemant la Rehabilitation des Adductions d'Eau en Milieu Rural a ete co-
financee par le credit IDA et le don Suisse. Les fonds donnes par la Suisse ont ete geres et suivis
par l'IDA. Ceci a facilite enormement les procedures de decaissement.
Sur le plan pratique, il est mieux que tous les Fonds soient geres par un seul Bailleur de
Fonds qui rendrait compte aux autres donateurs.
Apres la guerre d'avril 1994, tous les Bailleurs de la partie A sauf IDA se sont retires,
laissant les travaux des ouvrages secondaires inachev6s de meme que les reseaux primaires du lot
4,6,7 pour lesquels les contrats avaient ete resilies par les entreprises. Quant a la partie B, on
comptait, a la reprise sur les financements de l'IDA et de la Suisse. Mais a la fin la Suisse n'a
jamais disponibilise le montant promis de dix millions de francs suisse.



-32-
6. EXECUTION DU PROJET
Les conditions dans lesquelles le projet a ete execute etaient particulierement difficiles:
1 la situation de guerre de 1990 A 1994 suivie de l'insecurite dans la region du Nord- Ouest de
1997-1998 (zone clu projet partie A)
20 le retrait de la plupart des Bailleurs de Fonds apres 1994 au moment ou devaient s'executer les
reseaux secondaires pour AEP Region des Laves.
Le manque de financement pour executer 1'ensemble des reseaux secondaires tel que
c'etait prevu avant. la Guerre d'avril 1994 et realiser des travaux de rehabilitation pour adductions
simples de la partie B ont entramn des surcouits dans la surveillance des travaux. En effet, le
Bureau GKW qui devait assurer paralllement la surveillance des travaux des 4 sous-lots du lot 3
et 4 sous-lots du 5 n'a fait la surveillance que pour le sous-lot 3.2. De meme pour la partie B, le
bureau d'etude S]HER qui aurait dui assurer la surveillance des travaux de rehabilitation des
reseaux et petites sources des communes Rutobwe, Musambira et Nyabikenke ne l'a fait que mais
aussi successivement au lieu que les travaux ne fassent en parallele pour la commune de Rutobwe
et pour une adduction de la commune de Musambira.
On a connu deux ruptures de contrat pour non-respect l'un pour les lots 4, 6,et 7, I'autre a
Rutobwe avec l'entreprise SGEH. Neanmoins pour ce marche, il a e  reattribue a une autre
entreprise locale.
6.1 Partie A:
6.1 .l.Travaux
Les travaux sont divises en 2 parties: la 1' comprend les reseaux primaires, y compris les
stations de pompage et les reservoirs importants. La 2eme comprend les travaux de realisation des
r6seaux secondaires, les conduites de petit diametre, les bomes fontaines des reservoirs de taille
moyenne et des branchements prives.
L'execution des travaux a e  confiee a des entreprises intemationales. La surveillance et le
contr6le des travaux ont ete assures par le Bureau d'ing6nieur BCEOM, egalement auteur de
l'etude. Les travaux pour realisation des ouvrages (stations de pompage et reservoirs principaux)
et reseaux primaires des lots 1, 2, 3 et 5 ont e  termines avant 1994. Les lots 4, 6 et 7 ex&cutes
par une meme entreprise (ABAY-BESIX) ont ete resilies par l'entreprise respectivement en
DOcembre 1991 et en F6vrier 1992. Les travaux n'ont jamais e  repris et les reseaux primaires
sont restes inacheves.
Pour les reseaux secondaires, les marches etaient attribues en 1993 pour tous les sous-lots
des lots 1,2,3. Neanmoins, les travaux ont ete suspendus a la suite de la guerre d'avril 1994 et seul
le sous- lot 3.2 a ete repris en 1996. Les marches pour les sous-lots du lot 5 n'ont pas et signes
sur demande de la Banque Mondiale a cause de l'insecurite grandissante dans la zone (KINIGI)
ou se trouve ce lot. II avait e  decide d'attribuer ces sous-lots aux ONG et PME en vue de les
appuyer et renforcer leurs experiences. Cet esprit reflet la volonte du Gouvemement Rwandais
qui souhaitait que des PME & ONG acquierent de l'experience dans la realisation des travaux
hydrauliques.
Sur le plan. resultats, la population dispose des installations production et le reseau
primaire. Le manque de financement n'a pas permis de construire les reseaux de distribution afin
es usagers accedent a 1'eau potable. En d'autre terme le projet n'a pas aide a resoudre le probleme
d'eau mais accentuer le besoin car les usagers voient les installations qui ne leur desservent.
A Mutura, rmalgre la disponibilite du financement de la part de l'IDA, l'insecurite dans la
region de 1997 - 98 a empeche la realisation de sous-lots du lot 3 sauf le sous-lot 3.2 acheve
debut 1997.
Au niveau de la gestion des march6s, on peut se rendre compte que la structure lourde avec la
cellule de projet etait trop chere. Neanmoins avec un Fonctionnaire -Dirigeant et un bureau de
contr6le, les travaux ont et bien executes. Donc le recours a des structures, telle la cellule de



-33-
projet pour gerer les marches n'est envisageable dans le futur. Toutefois un comptable d'un projet
avec un Fonctionnaire - Dirigeant suffisent pour remplacer la cellule. Pour un projet avec
plusieurs volets, un Coordinateur doit etre designe.
6.1.2 La composante sensibilisation/formation
Elle a permis de mettre en place des regies associatives dans toutes les Communes
couvertes par le projet ainsi que 2 associations intercommunales dont l'une a RUHENGERI
denommee MUCREMU (Mutara Crete et Mutobo) du nom des adductions traversant les 6
Communes de RUHENGERI et l'autre a GISENYI YUSEMI (Yungwe Sebeya et Mizingo). La
sensibilisation a e  menee par une ONG Canadienne (PRODEVA) et par Lahmeyer.
Apres la guerre, toutes ces structures ont disparu car les infrastructures qu'elles devaient
gerer n'ont pas ete construites. Neanmoins, A la reprise du sous-lots 3.2 A Mutara finance par
l'IDA, un programme de sensibilisation a ete realise (finance aussi par IDA. Ce programme
execute par une ONG rwandaise ARAMET a permis de renforcer la regie communale deja
existante. Cette regie redynamisee en 1998 dans des conditions difficiles assure actuellement la
gestion du sous-lot 3.2 alimente par l'usine de Mizingo ayant une capacit6 de 1000 m3/h.
ARAMET a aide a la remise en place des comites A tous les niveaux et leur dispense des
formations en gestion administrative et financiere afin de permettra aux membres de la regie de
s'acquitter de leurs fonctions. La phase d'appui ayant e  tres court (6 mois) I'Administration
devra assurer un encadrement efficace surtout du c6te comptable et la maintenance. Considerant,
les resultats atteints par ARAMET en un temps court, il ne serait plus gestion de recourir aux
ONGs non locales et surtout pas aux Bureaux d'etudes pour mener un programme de
sensibilisation. L'ONG locale est suffisamment efficace et elle est aussi moins chere.
Sur le plan de la formation avant 1994, un certain nombre d'agents de la Direction ont ete
forme dont les Hydrauliciens de prefecture certaines gens communales, responsable, de la
maintenance des adductions, les techniciens d'ELECTROGAZ, les cadres de la Direction et
d'ELECTROGAZ ces formation se sont deroulees soit a Kigali au Centre de Formation du
Personnel d'ELECTROGAZ soit a l'etranger. Les personnels des regies ont suivi des formations
visant A le rendre capable d'assurer la gestion financiere des systemes d'eau. Malheureusement la
plupart des gens formes ne sont plus operationnels suite aux difficultes de guerre d'avril 1994.
Apres la guerre, 4 cadres de la Direction ont beneficie d'une formation en planification et
gestion de projet et l'utilisation du logiciel MS Project. Pour ce logiciel 4 autres cadres ont ete
inities a sont utilisation un tant qu'outil de planification et de gestion des projets.
Au niveau de la formation, on peut regretter que jusqu'A la fin du projet, on n'avait pas pu
mettre au point un plan de formation coherent si meme des tentatives ont eu lieu, it n'a pas de
consensus avec la Banque Mondiale.
6.1.3 Assistance a la Direction de l'Eau et Assainissement
L'assistance technique a ete marquee par la presence des experts A la Direction Generale de
1985 a 1991. Les assistants techniques provenaient du groupe BCEOM et SAUR - AFRIQUE
dans le cadre d'un marche gagne. L'assistance a permis une organisation du secteur surtout du
c6t6 de l'autogestion et de la maintenance des systemes d'eau. Tous les experts etaient affectes a
la Direction de l'Hydraulique Rurale (devenue Division de l'Hydraulique Rurale).
Du c6t6 de l'autogestion, elle a permis a produire des documents pratique a partir de la
politique d'autogestion mise en place en 1987 tels le document guide a l'usage de la
sensibilisation 1ere version. Grace a la presence des experts et de la formation dispensee aux
cadres, ils ont beneficie de l'experience en matiere de suivi de l'exploitation des systemes d'eau
et des structures de gestion. Sur le plan de l'organisation technique du secteur Eau les premiers
ont ete pose.
Au depart des experts, la composante assistance A permis A la Direction de l'Eau de
fonctionner en completant le budget de l'Etat alloue a ce Service. En effet, la foumiture du
materiel de bureau et informatique a am6liore le rendement du service. Nous avons pu acquerir



-34-
des ordinateurs de sorte qu'actuellement nous en disposons plus de cinq. Avec ce budget
l'entretien des vehicules a et assure pernettant ainsi les deplacement sur terrain dans le cadre
des activites de la Direction. Les fonds etaient debloques par tranches sur base d'un budget
previsionnel et des pieces justificatives eventuelles pour les depenses ulterieures. En outre dans
les rapports trimestriels de la Direction, l'utilisation de ces fonds etait toujours detaill.
6.1.4 Supervision et contr8le
Cette composante qui accompagne 1'execution des travaux a et menee par des Bureaux
d'ingenierie internationaux. Le contr6le et la surveillance de l'execution des travaux des reseaux
primaires et ouvrages de production a e  assure par BCEOM tandis que GKW l'a assure pour le
sous-lot 3.2.
6.2 PARTIE B
6.2.1 Etudes pour adductions complexes
Au niveau des adductions complexes, l'etude a porte sur 9 sur 10 des adductions prevues,
toutes situees dans la prefecture de Gitarama, la plus importante est l'adduction MAYAGA-
BUGESERA. Le marche avait ete attribue avant 1994 au Bureau d'etude SOGREAH.
Neanmoins, les etudes ont e  menees avec un retard par rapport a la signature du contrat
6.2.2 Surveillance pour travaux d'adductions complexes
I1 est a noter que les travaux d'execution des adductions complexes n'ont pas e  realises a
cause du manque de financement. Par consequent ce volet ne pouvait etre execute.
6.2.3 Etude et surveillance des travaux d'adductions simples
Les etudes pour adductions simples ont ete realises dans les communes de Rutobwe
Musambira et Nyabikenke respectivement pour 4, 2 et 9 adductions. A cot6 de ces adductions, les
etudes ont aussi porte sur des petites sources a r6habiliter et/ou~ aamenager. Ces differentes etudes
ont ete menees par le Bureau SHER.
Quant aux travaux, seuls les systemes de Rutobwe ont et rehabilites tels que prevus alors
que pour A Musambira, une adduction de 35 km a et rehabilitee alors que la 2e1n'ayant pas ete
juge indispensable on l'a laissee tombee. Les etudes pour les petites sources de Musambira et
Nyabikenke ainsi que les adductions de cette demiere n'ont pas e  suivies d'execution faute de
disponibilite de financement.
Au niveau cle la gestion, chaque borne fontaine dispose d'un compteur pour faciliter la
vente(vente au jerrycan). Les usagers ont opte pour le systeme de location des bomes fontaines et
la constitution d'une caisse a niveau constant pour les usagers des sources amenagees.
6.2.4 Sensibilisation pour l'ensemble du projet
I1 6tait pr6vu que les travaux devaient s'accompagner du volet sensibilisation afin de mettre
sur pied des regies associatives qui assureraient la gestion des systemes mis en place. Ainsi, dans
les communes oii les travaux ont e executes notamment dans les communes Rutobwe et
Musambira un programme de sensibilisation a ete mene par une ONG Rwandaise DUHAMIC-
ADRI.
Ce prograrmime qui a demarre en janvier 1998 pour se terminer en Mars 1999 a pennis la
mise en place des regies associatives dans les deux communes et ces demieres ont commence a
assurer la gestion de leurs systemes. Neanrnoins, n'ayant pas beneficie de la phase d'appui
indispensable pour consolider les structures, ]La Direction de l'Eau et Assainissement devra tout
faire pour assurer 1'encadrement des jeunes structures afin de les rendre viables. DUHAMIC a
conduit le programme en insistant sur la responsabilisation et la perennisation des systemes d'eau.



-35-
Les membres des regies ont ben6ficie des formations solides qui les aidera dans leur mission de
gestionnaire.
Le non amenagement des petites sources comme c'etait prevu a joue negativement sur la
sensibilisation des populations de Musambira. Elle a cre6 un sentiment de frustration des
populations et un manque de confiance au projets. It y a aussi le risque d'hypothequer le paiement
de l'eau pour l'adduction r6habilitee et bien fonctionnelle.
7. PERFORMANCE DE L'EMPRUNTEUR
La preparation du projet a debute en 1985 avec l'etude institutionnelle menee par BCEOM
et s'est tenninee en 1987. Le accords de financement du projet ont e  signe par les deux parties
(IDA et le Gouvernement Rwandais) en aout 1988. Le demarrage de la partie A du projet a eu
lieu en 1989.
Au depart, le probleme de coordination etait perceptible a cause de la multiplicite des
intervenants et pour y remedier, le MINITRAP a travers la Direction de l'Eau et Assainissement
en accord avec les Bailleurs a institue une reunion biannuelle des Bailleurs. Il a ete constate que
la fr6quence de ces r6unions de suivi etait suffisante car une p6riode de 6 mois etait jug6e
necessaire pour la progression des activites.
Le comite de suivi du projet avait pour r6le de s'assurer de l'avancement des activites, de
la disponibilite des financements pour les differentes composantes du projet.
Le placement de la Cellule de Projet sous l'autorite de la Direction a permis de garder un
controle sur l'ensemble du projet au lieu de se contenter uniquement des rapports lui transmises.
La mise sur pied d'un comite de suivi avec la regularite des reunions a pennis a la Direction
d'aborder periodiquement avec les bailleurs sur les probkmes qui entravent le projet
-  L'administration a accepte la mise en place de la cellule de projet pourtant tres lourde et
chere alors que sa mission de gerer les marches pouvaient etre assuree par la Direction de
l'Eau. Sur le plan comptable, on aurait pu recruter seulement un Cabinet comptable. Ceci
aurait reduit les cofits. L'integration dans la cellule de projet d'une equipe de la Direction
devait visait a terme que le r6le joue par la cellule revienne a 1 'equipe.
*  La non reformulation des objectifs apres la guerre alors que beaucoup de choses venaient de
changer notamment le manque de financement. L'Etat aurait dui revoir avec les Bailleurs
restants les objectifs de depart et les adapter aux conditions du moment.
*  Des divers changements des Fonctionnaires - Dirigeants qui ont eu lieu n'a pas facilite la
maitrise du deroulement du projet.
*   Le detachement d'un Fonctionnaire - Dirigeant et d'un comptable aupres de la Cellule de
Projet a cre6 un sentiment de ne pas appartenir a l'administration eu egard a son hierarchie
*  Pour 1'ensemble du projet (partie A et B) il y a eu plus d'un changement de Fonctionnaire -
Dirigeant.
*  L'absence d'un comptable, apres la Guerre d'avril 1994 pour la partie A, a fortement entrave
les audits qui, pour le bon deroulement, ont e  precede par l'etablissement des documents
comptable par un cabinet recrut6 pour la circonstance.
*  Durant toute la duree du projet, I'Administration n'a pas pu mettre au point un plan de
formation coherent pour le personnel de la Direction. Des formations qui ont eu lieu etaient
surtout a l'etranger n'etaient pas basees sur un planification anterieure mais plutot partaient
des stages et seminaires proposes par des centres de formation.
Ainsi des stages qui se sont deroules en France au Senegal avant 1994 au Canada et Etats-
Unis apres 1994 n'etaient pas le fruit d'une planification de la Direction.
Au niveau des communes et regies, les autorites communales sont montr6es cooperatives
dans la mise en place des structures de gestion. Pour les communes de Musambira et Rutobwe
(GITARAMA), un protocole au demarrage de la sensibilisation etait signe entre la commune et le
Ministere ayant l'eau dans ses attributions et la Direction de l'Eau indiquant le r6le que doit jouer



-36-
la commune dans la mise en place de la regie. Les usager ont ete reellement impliques dans le
choix de l'emplacement des bomes fontaines en particulier dans la Region des Laves. En fait,
l'implication des usagers dans la realisation surtout pour la creation des structures de gestion
visait a les preparer A gerer les installations d'eau A mettre en place.
Les autres ministeres en paTticulier celui des Finances a suivi de pres le projet surtout du c6te
financier car il est charge de la gestion de la dette publique mais aussi du paiement de la
contrepartie rwandaise. De meme, le Ministere de l'Interieur a travers les autorites communales a
participe A la mise en place des structures de gestion.
Attribution des nmarches
Pour les entreprises, le systeme etait tel que l'administration en collaboration avec la CdP
avant la guerre, pour la partie A et le bureau SHER pour la partie B attribue les marches apres
accords des Bailleurs. A ce niveau on n'a eu aucun probl6me. La gestion des marches etait
assuree respective:ment par la Cellule de Projet pour le compte de l'Administration pour la partie
A et la SHER pour la partie B. A chaque fois, le FD designe collaborait avec ces demiers.
Neanmoins. il y a eu rupture des marches pour la partie A respectivement pour les lots 4,6
et 7 executes par une meme entreprise ABAY-BESIX et jusqu'a la veille de la guerre d'avril
1994. Ces lots n'etaient pas toujours reattribues et sont restes inacheves jusqu'a la cl6ture du
projet car leurs Bailleurs se sont retires. Un autre contrat de SGH a Rutobwe a ete resilie pour non
respect des termes du contrat. Le marche a ete attribue a une autre entreprise locale Entreprise de
Construction des Batiments.
Sur le plan financier et comptables:
Sur le plan financier l'Etat avait la responsabilite de verser les fonds de contrepartie pour
les travaux. Mais ces fonds n'ont pas ete toujours verses A temps. Neanmoins l'Etat a assure des
paiements. Au point de vue comptable, le projet a souffert du manque de comptable en particulier
apres la guerre pour la partie A du projet. L'administration aurait dfi recruter un comptable pour
le projet afin d'en assurer la gestion comptable.
8. PERFORMANCE DE L'IDA
Le task manager effectuait deux missions /an dans le cadre de la supervision du projet: A
chaque mission une visite de terrain pour s'assurer de l'etat d'avancement technique des travaux.
Ces mission ont permis A l'IDA de suivre l'avancement des activites et de passer en revue avec la
Direction la situation du projet. Elles ont facilite le contact avec les entreprises et bureaux de
surveillance impliques dans l'execution des travaux. Dans le cadre du comite de suivi, les
Bailleurs echangeaient les points de vue sur le deroulement du projet et faisaient des
recommandations A l'attention des bureaux de contr6le.
Pour le deblocage des fonds l'IDA les a toujours debloque a temps pour l'approvisionnement du
compte special et / pour les paiement en direct.
Des reunions annuelles dans le cadre du CPPR pour des projets finances par 1'IDA ont
constitue un cadre d'evaluation adequate pour le positionnement du projet vis-a-vis des objectifs-.
MaIgre que le es objectifs du projet n'ont pas ete reformules apres la guerre l'IDA a travers le
task manager a aide le Gouvemement rwandais a la determination de la zone d'intervention du
projet en tenant compte du budget disponible.
Au niveau cle la passation des marches, tant pour la BM que pour les autres bailleurs les
DAO et l'attribution des marches devaient recevoir la non-objection. La BM suivait toute la
procedure de passation de marches jusqu'a la signature du contrat.
La mission residente a joue un r6le dans la facilitation de la correspondance entre
l'administration et la BM a Washington. Elle a prepare et participe aux mission de supervision.
Neanmoins la r6le de la mission residente devrait etre elargi pour pouvoir donner la non-
objection. N6anmoins, la mission residente devrait avoir le droit de donner la non-objection pour
les dossiers de projets pour gagner du temps passe entre la date d'envoi des dossiers et leur retour



-37-
Le financement des 6tudes non suivies d'execution des travaux entraine des cofits
additionnels d'actualisation. Ca sera le cas pour les etudes des adductions simples et petites
sources a Nyabikenke et pour les petites sources A Musambira. A Rutobwe et Musambira, il a et
mis en place des regies dont l'appui n'est pas assur6. I1 aurait 6t6 efficace si le Bailleur avait
accepte de supporter la phase d'appui ;celle-ci etant la plus importante dans la consolidation des
structures de gestion.
Un bailleur ayant finance un projet A moitie tels le lots 3 et 5 et les etudes realisees sans
execution en attente (cas des 9 adductions complexes en pr6fecture de Gitarama, des petites
sources de Musambira et ainsi que les adductions et petites sources de Nyabikenke), il devient
difficile d'avoir un autre pour financer le reste. Ceci est vrai aussi pour les travaux des reseaux
secondaires non realises dans la region des Laves.
9. LES INDICATEURS DE PERFORMANCE
A la conception, il etait prevu certains indicateurs qui allaient permettre de mesure la
performance du projet pour s'assurer de son impact reel. Le projet a touche deux aspects
importants qui permettent de mesurer son impact reel.
9.1 ASPECT INSTITUTIONNEL
La DEA dispose d'un organigramme stable avec des attributions claires ses Divisions
refletent la mission assignee a la Direction notamment l'Hydraulique Rurale, Urbaine et
I'Assainissement. Les Divisions y relatives ont des mandats clairs sans chevauchement. La
stabilite de son organigramme n'a e  atteinte apres une certaine periode ou il a etait souvent
soumis a des changements chaque fois le gouvemement changeait. En Novembre 1997, un nouvel
organigramme de la DEA a vu le jour. La DEA dispose d'une politique sectorielle acceptee par
tous les partenaires surtout qu'ils ont e associes a sa mise en place en Septembre 1997 lors d'un
atelier. Cette politique etait une actualisation de celle que l'on avait avant 1994 sous forme de
draft. Actuellement la DEA arrive a s'imposer comme maitre du jeu dans le domaine de l'AEPA
au Rwanda.
Fonds National de l'hydraulique Rurale (FNHR).
Le FNHR etait le point moteur institutionnel du projet. Centralisateur des Fonds de
1'hydraulique Rurale a la fois pour tous les bailleurs et pour les fonds donnes par les usagers
destines aux renouvellements des systemes, le FNHR etait percu comme un veritable changement
de gestion financiere en matiere d'eau qui pouvait assurer l'equite dans la distribution des
financements pour le projet d'AEP. Malheureusement, on l'a con,u comme un guichet du Fonds
de developpement communal (FDC). Celui-ci n'a jamais bien fonctionn6 pour inspirer la
confiance au moins des communes. Le mauvais fonctionnement du FDC n'a pas favorise
l'acceleration de la cr6ation du FNHR. Neanmoins un compte FNHR avait ete ouvert a la Banque
Centrale et certains Bailleurs avaient commence a verser. Cependant le mecanisme de
fonctionnement de ce Fonds n'avait pas e  finalise par la DEA jusqu'A la veille de la guenfe
d'avril 1994alors que le Gouvemement s'etait engage a verser initialement 200.000 USD, il n'a
jamais donne sa contribution du fait que les modalites de fonctionnement et de gestion du FNH-R
comme guichet du FDC n'ont pas vu le jour. On notera que les bailleurs, lors des reunions de
suivi du projet revenaient souvent sur le FNHR en insistant sur sa creation effective. Neanmoins
le gouvemement a touj ours paye la contre partie comme convenu dans l'accord de credit.
Staff recrute i la DEA.
Le principe de depart etait de recruter au moins cinq ingenieurs. A la veille de la guerre le
recrutement d'ingenieur avait ete respecte presque jusqu'en 1992, Cinq etaient deja affecte a la
Direction de l'Hydraulique Rurale, et en 1994, apres la guerre, la DEA est partie sur de nouvelles
basses en terme de personnel. Elle dispose actuellement un personnel suffisant mais ayant besoin
d'une consolidation par des formations. Les ingenieurs experimentes font defaut.



-38-
Les structures de gestion
Le retard de demarrage du projet n'a pas permis de mettre en place des structures de
gestion en temps convenu (31/12/1988). Par contre le processus a demarre en Septembre 1990 et
les structures ont ete mises en place. En 1992, les regies associatives pour les 11 communes du
projet et deux associations intercommunales, MUCREMU pour Ruhengeri et YUSEMI a Gisenyi
ont et creees. En 1993 les membres ont beneficie des fonnations et des equipements de bureau
pour travailler. Chaque regie et chaque association etaient dotees de statut et reglement interieur.
Les populations membres de ces associations attendaient les reseaux de distribution pour
disposer de l'eau et commencer a payer. Apres 1994, ces associations intercommunales et regies
associatives ont disparu et n'ont jamais ete reconstituees les travaux n'ayant pas ete non plus
repris. Seule la regie associative de Mutura (Gisenyi) a e  redynamisee et appuyee avec la reprise
du sous - lot 3-2 de sorte qu'elle est actuellement fonctionnelle.
9.2 ASPECT TECHNIQUE
Partie A
Le tableau ci- dessous montre l'etat d'achevement du Projet AEP Region des Laves.
Lot                                         Reseau                      Bailleurs
Primaire                Secondaire
1                       Termine                 5 sous-lots attribues avant Caisse Francaise de
1994 et non realis6s    D&veloppement
2                       Termine                 4 sous-lots non realises   Autriche
3                       Termine                 Sous- lot 3.2 acheve
3 autres sous-lots non IDA + B.D
realises
4                       Inacheve                                        BADEA + Gouvemement
Rwandais
5                       Termine                 4 sous-lots non realises   IDA + BD
6 - 7                   Inacheves                                       FAD  +  Gouvemement
Rwandais
Les usines de Yungwe -Bikore et de Mizingo sont operationnelles
Partie B: RAEMR a Gitarama
Le projet devait s'etendre dans d'autres prefectures mais s'est limite a Gitarama.
Etat d'achevement des travaux
Commune                 Systemes d'AEP                                  Regie Associative
Rutobwe                 Adduction               Source amenag&e
4 adductions achevees    Ternine comme prevu    En place
comme prevu
Musambira               Adduction rehabilitee   Non    rehabilite/   ou En place
comme prevu             amenager
Nyabikenke              Etudes terminees        Etudes terminees
Adductions complexes de Gitarama: etudes terminees sans execution des travaux



MAP SECTION



IBRD 20139
RWANDA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LAVA REGION
0~~
70   25   30ott  9335   40r               29130       /                  30100           .                   \/f                                       .~RBEo8  /\~. 
7---2t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                            G AEY  N D.   A 
= IB~PLT I <                 -   AUf   1   AN   *  .            N25  TR1:N'SIFATE
GRERRO'40   "I                                     MUNGO                                                    ING 0
KORA 700~~~/ 
TM  OUT  ST           OUT          A                                    29                             OTTO~~~~~~~TUR
KENYA  0Th OPEN                       /                                                                                                               f~~~~~~~~~JEDA20 .
KGA      NAA.  A
Y-' A                                                      OAEAT AREA                                                                                                              ON
20- ~    ~       ~        ANAI            4b                                    29PA3Y                         30W-                                                                                                             AINA  AR O0NAE
->                                               'A                                                                                                                                                        COMMUNE ROUNDARES~~~~~UAND
~~.1         S>,       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~                                     I                      -    CUCE~~~-3  D  FINANCING               EXPIMPING SOBERTATIONS D               NNATIONALUAE BOUNDAP ES
N  ARTWTC  /                                                             RETTLLTT ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     ~         ~~~~~~~AFTE FINANCING  * RESERVOIRSTNENTOALBUDRE
EM                                                                                                                                                                                                   *   SPRINGS
~ ZAMBIA   MOATOJ                    
UT    25'          SIP          35'          4T'.  S                                                                0T



