Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1783 RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Second Water Supply Project)
between
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 14, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1783 RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 14, 1987, between RWANDESE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Republic of Austria through its 
Federal Ministry of Finance a loan in Austrian Shillings (the Austrian Loan) in an 
amount equivalent to
$7,000,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement (the Austrian Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Federal
Minister of Finance or his duly designated representative;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from Banque Arabe pour le Developpement 
Economique en Afrique (BADEA) a loan (the BADEA Loan) in an amount of $7,250,000 to 
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the BADEA Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
BADEA;
(D)
the Borrower intends to  contract from the French Republic through its 
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) a loan  (the  CCCE  Loan)  in  an 
amount of about 115,000,000 French Francs equivalent to about $16,000,000 to assist in 
Page  2
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the CCCE Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and CCCE;
(E)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Swiss Government a Grant (the 
Swiss Grant) in an amount of 115,000,000 Swiss Francs equivalent to $7,000,000 to 
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the Swiss Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
Swiss Government;
(F)
the Borrower intends to contract from the African Development Fund (ADF), 
a loan (the ADF Loan) in an amount equivalent to $12,500,000 to assist in financing 
part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the ADF 
Loan Agreement);
(G)
the Borrower intends to contract from the United Nations Development Plan 
(UNDP), a grant (the UNDP Grant) in an amount of about $700,000 to assist in financing 
part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the UNDP 
Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and UNDP; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.O1. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.O2. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"MINITRAPE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works and Energy;
 
(b)
"DGE" means the General Directorate of Water within MINITRAPE established 
under the Borrower's Presidential Arrete No. 173/06 of February 23, 1984, as may be 
amended from time to
time;
(c)
"Commune" means an administrative subdivision of the Borrower's territory 
as organized under the Borrower's Law of November 23, 1963, as amended up to this day 
and as may be amended from time to time;
(d)
"Lava Region" means the region of that name located in the Northwest of 
the Borrower's territory;
(e)
"the 11 Communes of the Lava Region" means the following Communes located 
in such region: Nkuli, Mukingo, Kinigi, Kigombe, Nkumba, Kidaho, Rubavu, Rwerere 
Kanama, Mutura and Karago;
(f)
"FDC" means Fonds  de  Developpement Communal, the Borrower's Communal 
Development Fund organized under Decree-Law No. 17/77 of July 13, 1977;
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(h)
"FR" means Franc Rwandais, the Borrower's currency;
 
(i)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which runs from January 1 
to December 31; and
Page  3
(j)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
(P406RW) granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters 
dated September 12, 1986, and
December 19, 1986, between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 11,900,000).
Section 2.O2. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account at Banque Nationale du Rwanda on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the  Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date 
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the respective 
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.O5. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.O7. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15 commencing September 
15, 1997, and ending
March 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 
2007 shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Page  4
Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.O2 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.O1. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MINITRAPE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and management practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.O2. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For purposes of coordinating the execution of Part A of the 
Project, and without any limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a)
establish and maintain a Project coordination unit with membership and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association; (b) appoint and maintain a Project 
coordinator; and (c) appoint and maintain a qualified and experienced hydraulic 
engineer and an accountant.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all action necessary on its part to 
enable: (i) the organization of water users' associations at the communal level; (ii) 
the eventual organization of
water committees composed of water users' associations representatives and of Communes 
officials; and (iii) the organization of intercommunal associations, all with such 
structure and responsibilities as shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than December 31, 1988, cause the 11 Communes in the Lava 
Region to establish two intercommunal associations; and
(b)
not later than December 31, 1989, cause the 11 Communes in the Lava 
Region to employ such staff as shall be necessary to manage such intercommunal 
associations.
Section 3.06. For purposes of financing the costs of goods and services required 
to carry out the Project not financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Borrower 
shall:
(a)
each year include in its proposed budget, the funds necessary to cover 
the Borrower's counterpart in the execution of the Project; and
(b)
on September 15, each year furnish to the Association for information 
such proposed budget.
Section 3.07. For purposes of financing in the Communes of the Borrower's 
territory: (i) the building, rehabilitation and maintenance of water supply systems 
under Part B.2 of the Project; and (ii) the acquisition of the related equipment, the 
Borrower shall:
(a)
establish and maintain as a sub-account of FDC, a national fund for rural 
water supply (NFRWS);
(b)
prepare and adopt a set of rules and regulations satisfactory to the 
Association for the operation and management of NFRWS;
(c)
deposit into NFRWS an initial deposit in FR equivalent to $200,000;
 
Page  5
(d)
thereafter deposit into NFRWS amounts equal, unless the Borrower and the 
Association shall otherwise agree, to the aforementioned amount on March 15 each year; 
and
(e)
use such funds exclusively for the financing of the activities and 
equipment referred to in subparagraphs (i) and (ii) above.
Section 3.08. For purposes of strengthening the organization and operation of 
DGE the Borrower shall establish gradually and in any case not later than December 31, 
1992, in accordance with the provisions of the Borrower's Presidential Arrete No. 
172/06 dated March 24, 1987, the new organizational structure of DGE.
Section 3.09. The Borrower  shall: (a) not later than October 31, in each Fiscal 
Year furnish to the Association for review and comments: (i) DGE's proposed annual 
budget for the
following Fiscal Year; and (ii) an updated three year investment program for the 
Borrower's rural water supply sub-sector; and (b) based on such review finalize such 
budget and investment program.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall: (a) each Fiscal Year starting with its Fiscal 
Year ending December 31, 1987, and until December 31, 1992, recruit at least five 
qualified and experienced
engineers; and (b) assign such engineers and technicians to DGE.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall: (a) take all necessary measures for the 
transfer to the intercommunal associations and the Communes in the Borrower's 
territory upon their completion of
the facilities provided under Part A of the Project; and
(b)
assign to the  intercommunal  associations and the Communes the 
responsibility for the operation, management and maintenance of the facilities 
transferred to them.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by  
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account or payments out of the Special Account were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
 
Page  6
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the completion of the audit 
for the 
Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account or payment 
out of the Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause DGE and NFRWS through FDC to maintain 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations and
financial condition of DGE and of NFRWS.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause DGE and NFRWS through FDC to:
 
(i)
have their records, accounts and financial statements for each 
Fiscal Year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of their 
accounts for such year as so audited; and (B) 
the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
Section 4.03. For purposes of having the records and accounts of DGE and of FRWS 
for each Fiscal Year audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, 
pursuant to the provisions of Sections 4.01 (b) (i) and 4.02 (b) (i) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall not later than June 30, 1988, furnish to the Association 
for its approval a list of proposed auditors.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the Communal Councils, with the 
assistance of DGE to: (i) review not later than October 31, each year the levels of 
the water tariffs applied during such year to determine whether such levels were 
sufficient to cover the operation, maintenance and renewal costs of the water systems 
during such year; (ii) based on such review to take all necessary measures including, 
without limitation, adjustment of the structure or levels of such tariffs; (iii) 
deposit all revenue levied for water supply services into a separate account; (iv) use 
such revenue exclusively for expenses related to water supply services; and (v) have 
such separate accounts each Fiscal Year audited by inspectors duly designated by the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.O1. Pursuant to Section 6.O2 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
that the UNDP Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
December 31, 1988, or such later date as the Association, may agree; provided however 
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for that Part of the Project 
Page  7
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent 
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(i)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Austrian 
Loan, or 
the BADEA Loan, or the CCCE Loan, or the Swiss Grant, or the 
ADF Loan, or the 
UNDP Grant made to the Borrower for the financing of 
the Project shall have 
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the Austrian Loan 
Agreement, or the BADEA Loan Agreement, or the CCCE 
Loan Agreement, or 
the ADF Loan Agreement, or the Swiss Grant Agreement or the 
UNDP 
Grant Agreement providing therefor, or
(ii)
the Austrian Loan, or the BADEA Loan, or the CCCE Loan, or the ADF 
Loan shall 
have become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity 
thereof.
(c)
Subparagraph (b) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (i) such suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower 
to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following events are specified: any of the events specified in paragraphs (b) (i) and 
(b) (ii) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.O1. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section l2.Ol 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
that all the conditions prior to the effectiveness of the Austrian Loan, 
or the BADEA Loan, or the CCCE Loan, or the ADB Loan or the Swiss Grant, except for 
the effectiveness of this
Agreement, shall have been fulfilled;
(b)
that the Project Coordination Unit referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of 
this Agreement has been established, the Project Coordinator referred to in paragraph 
(b) of such Section and the hydraulic engineer and the accountant referred to in 
paragraph (c) of such Section have been appointed; and
(c)
that the sub-account of FDC referred to in Section 3.07 (a) of this 
Agreement has been established, the rules and regulations referred to in paragraph (b) 
of such Section have been
adopted and the initial deposit referred to in paragraph (c) of such Section has been 
made.
Section 6.O2. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.O4 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministry of Finance and Economy of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.O3 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.O2. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
Page  8
11.O1 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
B.P. 158
Kigali
Rwanda
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIFINECO
502 MINAFFET
 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2O433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
44OO98 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Simon Insonere
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                 2,770,000       80%
     including
     pipe laying
Page  9
     for Parts A.2
     and A.4
(2)  Equipment                   3,170,000       100% of foreign
     including                                   expenditures
     pipes for Parts                             100% of local
     A.2 and A.4                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory cost)
                                                 and 80% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 for other items
                                                 procured locally
(3)  Consultants'                1,980,000       100% of foreign
     services                                    expenditures and
     and training                                80% of local
                                                 expenditures
(4)  Civil works                 1,580,000       90%
     and equipment
     under the rehab-
     ilitation program
     under Part B of
     the Project
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5)  Refunding of                  400,000      Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(6)  Unallocated                 2,000,000
                                __________
         TOTAL                  11,900,000
2.
If the amount allocated to Category (5) above is in excess of the amount due, 
the excess will be reallocated to Category (6).
3.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in improving the 
efficiency of water supply operations in the Borrower's territory by: (i) 
rehabilitating existing and building new water supply facilities in the Lava region; 
(ii) improving the quality and quantity of water provided to the rural population in 
the Borrower's territory; and (iii) strengthening the organization, operation and 
management of water supply systems at DGE's level and at the communal level.
Page  10
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Rehabilitation and Extension of Water Supply Systems in the Lava Region 
to supply 
water in the eleven Communes of the Lava Region
 
1.
Sebeya and Yungwe-Bikore Systems.
 
(a)
Construction of a treatment plant with a capacity of 5,750 m3/day;
 
(b)
Construction of two reservoirs each with a capacity of 1,000 m3 and of 
three reservoirs with respective capacities of 600 m3, 400m3 and 300 m3;
(c)
provision and laying of pipes for water distribution of about 60 km; and
 
(d)
provision of about 105 standpipes.
 
2.
Mizingo-Mutura System
 
(a)
Construction of two treatment plants with a capacity of 1,000 m3/day and 
250 m3/day, respectively;
(b)
construction of a pumping station with a capacity of 1,440 m3/day;
 
(c)
construction of a  reservoir  with  a capacity of 1,000 m3/day;
 
(d)
provision and laying of pipes for water distribution of about 40 km; and
 
(e)
provision of about 36 standpipes.
 
3.
Mutera System:
 
(a)
Construction of a pumping station with a capacity of 4,320 m3/day;
 
(b)
construction of one reservoir with a capacity of 200 m3;
 
(c)
provision and laying of pipes for water distribution of about 50 km; and
 
(d)
provision of about 22 standpipes.
 
4.
Upper Mutobo System:
 
(a)
Rehabilitation of a treatment plant with a capacity of 12,300 m3/day;
 
(b)
construction of a pumping station with a capacity of 2,160 m3/day;
 
(c)
construction of a reservoir with a capacity of 2,000 m3;
 
(d)
provision and laying of pipes for water distribution of about 65 km; and
 
(e)
provision of about 66 standpipes.
 
5.
Lower Mutobo System:
 
(a)
Rehabilitation of a treatment plant with a capacity of 12,300 m3/day;
 
(b)
rehabilitation of a reservoir  with a capacity of 1,500 m3;
 
(c)
provision and laying of pipes for water distribution of about 150 km; and
 
(d)
provision of about 122 standpipes.
 
6.
Cretes System:
 
(a)
Carrying out works for the Rubindi source intake;
Page  11
(b)
provision and laying of a water supply pipe;
 
(c)
rehabilitation of a treatment plant with a capacity of 12,300 m3/day;
 
(d)
construction of a pumping station at Mutobo with a capacity of 4,320 
m3/day;
(e)
construction of the Muhingo pumping station;
 
(f)
construction of a pumping station at Gahira with a capacity of 2,300 
m3/day;
(g)
construction of reservoirs at the following locations:
 
(i)
Muhingo with a capacity of 700 m3;
 
(ii)
Gahira with a capacity of 300 m3;
 
(iii)
Gasizi with a capacity of 2,000 m3;
 
(iv)
Kora with a capacity of 700 m3;
 
(v)
Suza with a capacity of 700 m3;
 
(vi)
Kinigi with a capacity of 300 m3; and
 
(vii)
Mutobo with a capacity of 1,500 m3.;
 
(h)
provision and laying of pipes for water distribution of about 135 km and 
for force main of about 16 km;
(i)
provision of about 121 standpipes.
 
Part B:
Rehabilitation of Water Supply Systems in the Borrower's Territory
 
1.
Designing a program for the rehabilitation, the operation and maintenance of 
rural water supply systems in the Communes of the Borrower's territory except in the 
eleven Communes of the Lava Region.
2.
Carrying out through NFRWS of the first phase of such program.
 
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening
 
1.
Provision of technical assistance to DGE to:
 
(a)
improve DGE's operations and management procedures;
 
(b)
carry out a review of the legislation applicable to water supply 
activities in the Borrower's territory;
(c)
provide training in financial management, accounting and engineering to 
DGE's staff.
2.
Provision of technical assistance at the communal level to: 
 
(a)
train communal employees and members of water users' associations in 
maintenance of water supply systems;
(b)
train administrators, members of water committees and chairmen of water 
users' associations in the optimal use of the water supply systems; and
(c)
train communal accountants in accounting and financial reporting.
 
3.
Provision of office equipment and vehicles to DGE.
 
*   *   *
Page  12
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in the Rwandese Republic may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Pipes and equipment may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with the applicable procedures 
of the Borrower.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more, and for works estimated to cost $300,000 or more, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract 
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the 
other information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance 
with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Page  13
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall  
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association.  Such consultants shall be selected in accordance 
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (4) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized  Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
the evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association, prior to or with any request for replenishment or 
upon request of the Association such documents and other evidence as the Association 
shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when either 
of the following situations
first arises:
Page  14
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible 
Categories minus the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, 
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized 
Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
