Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13098-BEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
MAY 10, 1995
Poptulation and Human Resources Division
West: Central Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of November 1994)
1US$ = 600 CFAF
1FF = 100 CFAF
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABBEF      Association Beninoise de Bien-Etre Familial (Beninese Association of Social Welfare)
AIDS       Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CA         Centrale d'Achat (Central Procurement Agency)
CCS        Complexe communal de sante (Communal Health Center)
CDEEP      Comite Departemental de Suivi de I 'Execution et d 'Evaluation des Programmes du secteur sante
(Departmental Committee for Implementation Monitoring and Health Sector Progran Evaluation)
CFA        Communaut financiere africaine (African Financial Community)
CHD        Centre hospitalier departemental (Departmental Hospital Center)
CNEEP      Comit National de Suivi de l 'Execution et d 'Evaluation des Programmes du secteur sante (National
Committee for Implementation Monitoring and Health Sector Program Evaluation)
CNHU       Centre national hospitalier universilaire (National University Hospital Center)
COGEC      Comite de gestion de la commune (Communal Management Committee)
COGES      Comite de gestion de la sous-prefecture (Sub-prefecture Management Comnmnittee)
COGEZ      Comite de gestion de la zone sanitaire (District Management Committee)
CPPR       Country Project Performnance Review
CPR        Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
CSSP       Centre de sante de la sous-prefecture (Sub-prefecture Health Center)
DDS        Direction departementale de sante (Departmental Health Directorate)
DPhL       Direction des pharmacies et laboratoires (Pharmacy and Laboratory Directorate)
DPCE       Direction de la Planijication, de la Coordination et de I'Evaluation (Planning, Coordination, and
Evaluation Directorate)
DSAF       Direction des services administratifs etfinanciers (Administrative and Financial Services Directorate)
DSF        Direction de la sank familiale (Social Welfare Directorate)
FP         Family Planning
IAPSO      Inter Agency Procurement Services Office
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
IEC        Information, Education, and Communication
MCH        Maternal and Child Health
MEF        Ministry of Finance
MOH        Ministry of Health
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
ORT        Oral Rehydration Therapy
PFP        Policy Framework Paper
PHC        Primary Health Care
PTD        Plan Tnennal de Developpement (Three-year Development Plan)
SA         Special Account
SNIGS      Sysieme National d 'Information et de Gestion Sanitaire (National Health Management and Information
System)
SOE        Statement of Expenditures
STD        Sexually Transmitted Disease
UNFPA      United Nations Fund for Population Activities
WHO        World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



REPUBLIC OF BENIN
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................ i-iv
I.                  INTRODUCTION  . ..............................................  I
A. Country Economic Framework .                                        ....................................  1
B. Human Resources Development in the Macroeconomic Context  .................  2
II.                 THE POPULATION. HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR ....................                                                                                       3
A. Sector Overview ............................................... 3
B.  Past Sector Performance  and  Key  Issues  ................................    5
C.  National Policy  and  Medium-term   Sector Strategy    .........................   9
D. The Bank Group's Role and Sector Assistance Strategy ...................... 12
III.                THE PROJECT ................................................. 14
A. Project Objectives ............................................. 14
B. Summary Description ........................................... 14
C. Detailed Features ............................................. 15
D. Project Cost and Financing  .                                ...................................... 24
IV.                 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.................................                                                                                               26
A. Project Coordination and Management .26
B. Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision .27
C. Project Impact .28
D. Procurement .28
E. Disbursement ................................................ 31
F. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting .33
V.                  BENEFITS  AND   RISKS............................................                                                                                    34
A. Benefits .34
B. Risks .34
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .34
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, which visited Benin in Junr/July 1994. Appraisal team members iscluded: Messrs./Mesdames Michael Azefor, Mission Leader
(AFIPH), Denise Vaillancourt, Management Specialist (PHN), Marie-Odile Waty, Health Economist (AF3PH), Robert Leke, Cornsultant/Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology (University
of Yaounde), Peter Bachrach, ConsultanVlPlanning Specialist, and Aboubacar Magassouba, Consultant/Project Management Specialist. It also draws on the findings ofa November 1994 post-
appraisal mission composed of Messrs./Mesdames Denise Vaillancourt, Mission Leader (PHN), Olusoji Adeyi, Young Professional/Physician (PHN), Michael Azefor, Resident Representative
(Residert Mission, Benin), Ousmane Diagapa, Economist (Resident Mission, Benin), Peter Bachrach, Corksultant/Planning Specialist, Robert Leke, Consultant/Professor of Obstetrics and
Gynecology (University of Yaounde), Jean-Pierre Mansmhande, Comultant/Public Health Specialist. Messrs. Hjalte Sederlof (MN2PH) and Aubrey Williams (OPRPG) served as peer reviewers.
The Division Chief is Mr. lan Porter, and the Director is Mr. Olivier Lafourcade.



ANNEXES
1.        Basic Indicators
2.        Major Causes of Morbidity among the General Population
3.        Current Structure of the Ministry of Health
4.        Estimates of Additional Personnel by Level and by Category
5.        Evolution and Composition of the Current Budget for Health
6.        Evolution of Health Sector Financing in Benin
7.        IDA's Support to National Plan of Action for Food and Nutrition
8.        Letter of Sector Development Strategy
9.        Proposed Structure for the Reformed Health System
10.       Organigramme of the Newly Reorganized MOH
11.       Donor Financial Commitments 1994-1998
12.       Contractual Staff to be Hired under the Project
13.       Project Summary Costs and Financing (COSTAB)
14.       Project Management Structure
15.       Project Implementation Schedule
16.       Indicators for Project Monitoring and Evaluation
17.       IDA Supervision Plan
18.       Technical Assistance
19.       Personnel Overseas Training Schedule
20.       Disbursement Schedule
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
MAP:    IBRD 26983



REPUBLIC OF BENIN
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Benin
Implementing Agencv: Ministry of Health
Beneficiaries:      Population of Benin
Amount:             SDR 17.9 million (US$27.8 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity
Project
Objectives:         The overall objective of the project is to assist the Government in improving the
health and well-being of Benin's population, with particular emphasis on its most
vulnerable segments (women, children and the poor). It will do so through the
support of national sector policy and strategic objectives. First, in support of
Benin's population policy (expected to be approved by the Council of Ministers
before end-November 1995), the project will assist in the further development
and expansion of the family planning program. Second, the project will support
implementation of the three main reforms included in the national health sector
strategy for the period 1995-1999. These reforms, aimed at improving the
quality, coverage and efficiency of basic health services and at rendering the
health system more accountable to the population, are: (a) decentralization and
strengthening of sector management and administration; (b) reconfiguration of the
referral system and strengthening of its capacity to provide technical support
services to primary health care and nutrition; and (c) expansion of the
participation of multiple stakeholders, including beneficiaries, in the planning,
implementation and evaluation of national health policy and programs.
Proiect             The project's support to the implementation of national sector policy and
Description:        strategy will be provided through four components:
(a) Development and Expansion of Family Planning Program and Services:
To ensure nationwide availability of quality services and information, this
component will assist the Government in disseminating and promoting its
population policy and in establishing a viable, nationwide family planning
program. It will also support expansion of FP services and their integration into
the minimum package of services at all levels of the public health system.
(b) Improving the Quaity and Efficiency of Priority Health Services: This
component will assist the Government in revitalizing and streamlining the referral
system, with a particular emphasis on upgrading and improving the quality of
first referral services through the gradual establishment of district hospitals, and
on establishing norms and standards for quality services at all levels of the
system. To this end it will support upgrading of the health infrastructure and
focus on strengthening priority health programs and disease interventions, most
notably: maternal and child health services (including nutrition), tuberculosis,
STDs and AIDS, and health promotion and preventive activities.
(c) Strengthening Sector Management and Administration: This component
will support the decentralization of sector management and administration, which



ii
will involve the gradual establishment of health districts, the strengthening and
expansion of departmental-level capacity, and the strengthening of key functions
of the central MOH. It will also support the development of key management
capacities at all levels of the system, including mobilization and management of
financial resources, management and training of health personnel, planning,
supervision, information collection and analysis, and evaluation. In addition, it
will continue to support successful efforts initiated under the first IDA funded
health project to improve pharmaceutical policy, legislation and regulation and
to fine-tune systems and processes for ensuring the quality, affordability and
timely replenishment of essential generic drug stocks throughout the system.
(d)    Strengthening of Partnerships for Health: Under this component,
existing mechanisms and structures for intersectoral coordination and community
participation will be revitalized and strengthened, and integrated into an
organizational framework for partnerships. It will support the operations of these
committees through which stakeholders will be more fully and routinely involved
in the planning, management and evaluation of sector activity at all levels of the
health system.
Benefits:            The main benefit of the project will be improved welfare for the general
population, especially women and children, resulting from greater spacing of
births and improved health and nutrition status. Time spent by women attending
to patients in the household and on continuous childbirth will be channeled into
more productive endeavors. The general population will benefit as family
planning services are made available in all districts of the country. Improved
curative and preventive health services will motivate a growing number of
Beninese to use the health services and thereby reduce the high cost of medical
complications. The institutional reforms carried out under the project will
enhance the Government's responsiveness to the basic family planning, health
and nutrition needs of the population and will lead to better resource use and
greater equity in service delivery. Greater involvement of beneficiaries in sector
operations will strengthen the decentralization process, lead to greater
transparency and mobilize the population to prevent rather than cope with
disease. The project will contribute to building a solid human resource base for
future development and will progressively reduce the high dependency burden
and limited opportunities for women that result from high fertility, morbidity and
mortality.
Risks:               The main risk of the project is the potential inability of the Government to carry
out the comprehensive reforms included in the project. Key stakeholders were
involved throughout the process of project preparation, which should mitigate any
tendency by central level officials to stall sector reforms or project activities.
The coordination mechanisms and supervision arrangements ensure regular
consultation among the MOH, beneficiary representatives, other ministries,
donors, private sector operators and NGOs to review progress in implementation
and provide timely solutions to problems detected.  Another risk is that
Government budgetary allocations may fall short of resources needed to
implement the project. Conditions to be met under the project include a
restructuring of the current public budget for health to encourage decentralization
and increase absorptive capacity and a gradual increase in the health sector share
of the total current budget over the life of the project. In addition, resources
generated through cost recovery and managed by communities constitute a
guarantee that essential drugs and critical non-wage operating expenses are



iii
protected.  To ensure greater sustainability, the project design envisages a
decentralized implementation strategy in which the regions, rather then the
central MOH, are primarily responsible for execution of various project
activities. Periodic reviews and annual programnming workshops at the level of
the CNEEP will ensure that all regions are respecting implementation plans,
standards and deadlines. Beneficiary assessments will also be used to monitor
sector performance.



iv
Proiect Cost Summarv and Financing Plan
(including taxes & duties, in US$ million)
Estimated Proiect Costs                                 Local   Foreign     Total
A. Development and Expansion of Family Planning
Programs and Services
1. Promotion/Dissemination of Pop. Policy             0.4       0.7       1.1
2. Family Planning Service Delivery                   0.3       0.9       1.2
B. Improving Quality and Efficiency of Priority
Health Services
1. Strengthening of Priority Health Programs          1.6       2.7       4.3
2. Strengthening of Referral System                   1.8       4.8       6.6
C. Strengthening and Streamlining Sector
Management and Administration
1. Decentralization of Management & Administration    3.9       4.4       8.3
2. Strengthening of Key Management Capacities         0.4       1.8       2.2
3. Strengthening of Pharmaceutical Sector Management  0.1       1.5       1.6
D. Strengthening of Partnerships for Health              0.8      0.1        0.9
E. Project Management Costs                              0.3      0.5        0.8
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                         9.6      17.4      27.0
Physical contingencies                                   0.6      1.4        2.0
Price contingencies                                      3.0      1.4        4.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         13.2      20.2      33.4
Taxes &
Financing Plan                           Local     Foreign     Duties      Total
IDA                                       8.3       19.5        0.0        27.8
Government (including taxes & duties)     2.1        0.2        2.8         5.1
Beneficiaries                             0.0        0.5        0.0         0.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          10.4       20.2        2.8        33.4
Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year
FY96     FY97    FY98       FY99       FY2000    FY2001
Annual                  1.9       7.5      6.9       6.1        4.2       1.2
Cumulative              1.9       9.4      16.3     22.4       26.6      27.8
Project ID No.: 118



REPUBLIC OF BENIN
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1.   Benin is a country of more than five million people with a total GDP of about US$1.5 billion
(1994). Its economy is highly open and strongly dependent on primary and tertiary activities. The
primary sector, which accounts for 33 percent of total GDP, provides the country's largest export
commodity: cotton. A large tertiary sector dominated by commerce accounts for 53 percent of the
country's GDP, and its dynamic re-export activities provide about 45 percent of the country's total export
revenues. In contrast, the country has a small secondary sector which barely accounts for about 14
percent of GDP.
1.2.   The country is a member of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). As
a member of the Union monetaire ouest africaine (UMOA) and of the Banque Centrale des Etats de
I'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO), it has a common currency (the CFA franc) with West African francophone
countries, which is pegged to the French franc. In January 1994, in conjunction with the other members
of the CFA zone, Benin realigned the parity of the CFA franc from 50 to 100 CFA francs to one French
franc.
A. COUNTRY ECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
1.3.   Benin adopted an adjustment program in 1989 in response to an economic and financial crisis
engendered by almost two decades of state domination and mismanagement of the economy. The first
phase of this program (1989-90), supported by SAC I and an IMF SAF arrangement, focused on reducing
macroeconomic imbalances and initiating market liberalization. Key objectives included reducing the
fiscal deficit, initiating a public enterprise divestiture program, and managing the crisis engendered by
the collapse of the state-owned banks. Implementation of the program was severely hampered by political
disturbances in 1989, which led to a breakdown of the public administration and a dramatic decline in
government revenues. The economic crisis was accompanied by a period of sociopolitical turmoil
culminating in the naming of a transition government in March 1990. Considerable progress was realized
in 1990, particularly with regard to public enterprise divestiture and restoration of a functioning banking
system.
1.4    Multiparty elections and the installation of a new President and National Assembly in early 1991
were followed rapidly by a reinforcement of the economic reform program. The second phase of the
adjustment program (1991-93), initiated by the newly-elected Government, and supported by SAC II and
IMF SAF/ESAF programs, focused on reduction of the current budget deficit, widespread market
liberalization, and further public enterprise divestiture. Implementation of the program has culminated
in a number of notable achievements. Since the end of the 1980s, the Government has increased its fiscal
effort by 70 percent, largely through major reforms in taxation. At the same time it has reduced the size
of the civil service by 10 percent and increased budget allocations for non-wage operating costs and actual
expenditure for its public investment program. It has dramatically lowered import tariffs and eliminated
virtually all restrictions, so that it now has one of the most open trade regimes in sub-Saharan Africa.
It has made a clean break with the Marxist-Leninist ideology of the past and made important strides in
putting in place a business environment more conducive to private investment. Consistent with a more
private-oriented economy, and a leaner public sector, it has cut the number of public enterprises from
120 to 29. Finally, it has begun long-term restructuring of the public administration.
1.5.   The main focus of the proposed SAC III operation is to consolidate reforms initiated since 1990.
It will support the Government's efforts to: maintain a substantial real depreciation through appropriate



2
macroeconomic policies, assure a strong supply response to the devaluation, and improve the delivery
of essential public services required for higher growth in the medium-term. Policy reforms would be
accelerated in two areas. First, the SAC III would support improved incentives for private sector
development through further simplification and rationalization of foreign trade taxation, a deeper
restructuring of domestic indirect and direct taxation, additional changes in the regulations governing
commercial activity and the labor market, and public enterprise divestiture. Second, it would support
improved management of public resources and delivery of public services by restructuring current
expenditures, improving public investment programming and reforming institutions in key ministries.
Given its relatively strong past adjustment performance, the successful devaluation of the CFA franc in
1994, and the reform measures proposed for 1995-96, additional adjustment lending for Benin beyond
the proposed credit is not envisaged. Continued economic reforms in key sectors would be pursued
primarily through sector investment operations.
B. HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT IN THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
1.6.   There is increasing recognition on the part of the Government that a skilled, healthy and well-
nourished population is a condition sine qua non for sustainable development. From the very outset, the
Government's adjustment program has accorded priority to human resource development. It addressed
the short-term basic needs of the population through emergency measures to create productive
employment and to protect the most vulnerable groups during the adjustment process. The Government
has, with donor support, improved the quality and coverage of health and education services in order to
meet the needs of the general population. The Government has sought to improve the quality of life of
the general population by implementing water and environmental sanitation programs and by supporting
women's economic development activities. Over and above these short-term measures, the Government
recognizes the need to develop a long-term strategy for human resources development that would enable
Benin to harness its rapidly growing population into an effective, productive force.
1.7.   It has therefore embarked on major sector reform and development programs in the areas of
poverty reduction, health, education, professional training and enhancement of the role of women in
development that are central to sustainable development. It is finalizing a comprehensive population
policy that will become an important component of its human resource development program. The
findings and recommendations of a participatory poverty assessment carried out by the Bank were recently
endorsed by the Government. An important component of the Government's strategy to reduce poverty
is to improve the access of the poor and vulnerable to basic social services. In the area of health, the
focus continues to be on: reducing current morbidity and mortality, especially among children and
mothers; greater involvement of beneficiaries in health; expanding family planning activities to increase
contraceptive practice; and improving the nutritional status of the population. In the education and
professional training sector, Government efforts are being directed at the fundamental restructuring of
the country's educational system to accord higher priority to general education, especially for girls. The
reforms, which cover all levels of the educational system, will adapt the content of syllabuses and
teaching methods to the needs of the economy of Benin. An Education Project approved by the Board
on May 17, 1994 will help the Government realize these reforms. An IDA-funded Food Security project,
approved by the Board on April 12, 1994, will support efforts to improve the nutrition status of the
general population.



3
II. THE POPULATION. HEALTH AND NUTRITION (PHN) SECTOR
A. SECTOR OVERVIEW
1. PHN Status: Causes and Consequences
2.1.   Propelled by persistently high fertility (TFR=7. 1) and moderately declining mortality, Benin's
population of 5 million is growing at a rapid annual rate of 3.2%. Life expectancy is estimated at 51
years, infant mortality at 80 per 1,000 live births and maternal mortality at about 800 per 100,000 live
births. These indicators compare unfavorably with averages for low income countries (life expectancy
of 62 years and infant mortality rate of 73 per 1000 live births) and put Benin among countries with the
highest mortality in the world. Basic indicators for Benin are presented in Annex 1.
2.2.   Benin's poor health status results from the high prevalence of tropical communicable and
parasitic diseases, poor nutrition, high fertility, inadequate preventive and curative health services, low
access to safe drinking water and sanitation facilities, low levels of literacy and education -- especially
among women, and pervasive poverty. The leading causes of morbidity and mortality (discussed in
Annex 2) are, in order of prevalence: malaria, diarrheas and gastroenteritis, acute respiratory tract
infections, traumas and anemia. Except for measles, vaccine-preventable diseases are not among the main
pathologies. A relatively successful vaccination program has, in recent years, shifted the vaccine-
preventable disease burden among children into older age groups, who had lower immunization protection
and who suffer from serious nutritional problems. Rising HIV infection rates and AIDS cases are of
increasing public concern: 218 new cases of AIDS were officially reported for 1992, with a cumulative
total of 465 cases; and it is likely that cases are under-reported. The proportion of women among all
reported cases is increasing. The principal transmission method is heterosexual intercourse, with an
increase in vertical (mother-to-child) transmission. Estimated HIV prevalence in the general population
is still 1 percent and no projections of HIV infection have as yet been carried out.
2.3.   Malnutrition is very prevalent, but often not diagnosed and generally under-reported. Several
nutrition studies show that 25 percent of Benin's population is malnourished and that children and mothers
are generally more severely affected. Estimates suggest that between 20 and 40 percent of children under
five suffer from some degree of malnutrition and 3 to 6 percent are severely malnourished. These rates
are high compared to those of countries with similar socio-economic and geographical features. Signs
of vitamin A deficiency are present among the general population in the northern part of the country, but
more recently similar deficiencies have been identified among school children in Cotonou. Iodine
deficiency is known to be endemic in a number of areas of the country. Although symptoms of iron
deficiency are very common among pregnant women and low births weights are frequent, there are no
detailed studies analyzing the magnitude and severity of nutritional deficiencies among pregnant women
and babies. The major factors adversely affecting nutritional status in Benin are: (a) inadequate allocation
of household income; (b) food taboos; (c) unhygienic and inappropriate preparation practices; (d) poor
weaning practices; (e) food consumption and distribution patterns within the family; and (f) pervasive
poverty.
2.4.   Poor PHN status threatens both the quality of life of Benin's population and prospects for
achieving development goals. With a per capita income of US$400, Benin is caught in a vicious cycle
of poverty and ill health, which has persisted despite national efforts to improve economic and social
development in recent years. Constant ill health limits the country's ability to maximize returns on
investments in education and training, and to increase its economic productivity. The current population
growth rate implies the doubling of the population size in less than 25 years, a rate of increase that will
further inhibit national efforts to improve the quality of life. Persistently high fertility, coupled with
slowly declining mortality, have culminated in an increasingly youthful age structure: close to half of the



4
population is under 15 years old. Not only does this impose a severe burden on an under-employed labor
force, it also poses greater demands on social services, which already are overextended. This will keep
the country's propensity to save below a level needed for generating adequate capital for economic
growth. Furthermore, population growth that outpaces economic growth will contribute to poor nutrition
and health status, which will, in turn, inhibit productivity and exacerbate poverty.
2. Structure and Organization of the Health System
2.5.    Benin's public health system has three levels, structured around the administrative subdivisions
of the country: central (or national); intermediate (or departmental) and peripheral (composed of two
subdivisions: sub-prefectural and communal levels). Annex 3 presents the current structure of the
administration, facilities, and management committees that make up the health system, which are
described briefly below.
2.6.    Administration. At the central level, the Ministry of Health (MOH) coordinates the formulation
of sector policy and strategies. It synthesizes requests for inputs from the regions into sector investment
programs and prepares corresponding annual investment and recurrent budget proposals for the sector.
The MOH prepares medium-term investment plans and collaborates with the Ministry of Plan in
mobilizing resources from external sources. It is responsible for setting and enforcing patient care norms
and standards. It defines the functions and evaluates the performance of health facilities at all levels.
The MOH is responsible for the deployment, supervision and evaluation of all categories of health
personnel who work in the health sector. At the regional level, the Departmental Bureau of MOH
(DDS) is responsible for managing health programs designed to implement the national health sector
policy and strategy as adapted to the particular context of the region. The DDS is responsible for the
allocation of resources within the region and for the provision of support to health facilities in the
department and to central MOH in planning, management and evaluation of health sector activities. It
has primary responsibility for supervision and coordination of health services (curative, preventive and
promotional) in the region. It monitors the operation of health facilities in order to assure that they
function in line with MOH directives and nationally set standards for patient care. The DDS coordinates
the preparation of draft budget requests submitted to the MOH for review and inclusion in the sector
budget proposals. At the sub-prefectoral level, the chief medical officer supervises primary health care
facilities operating in the sub-prefecture. At the conmmunity health center level, a state midwife or
nurse manages community-level primary health care and supervises health center staff.
2.7.    Health Facilities. The pyramidal structure of Benin's health care services has at the central
level the National University Hospital Center (CNHU), which is responsible for tertiary care and offers
specialized medical and surgical care for cases not requiring evacuation. In practice, however, it also
functions as a primary health care (PHC) and first referral health center with no patient screening system.
It helps train physicians, midwives, nurses and technicians and undertakes medical research. At the
regional level, the Departmental Hospital Center (CHD), the second level referral unit, handles
complicated cases, requiring medical specialists, which are referred from the sub-prefectoral (or district-
level) health centers (CSSP). The CHD is responsible, among other things, for in-service training of
regional clinical staff. At sub-prefectoral headquarters, the CSSP provides both PHC and first referral
care to patients referred from the Communal Health Center (CCS). A number of CSSPs are sufficiently
equipped with technical staff and equipment to serve as the first level of referral for lower-level facilities.
At the community level, the CCS provides PHC and serves as the entry point into the health system.
It does most of the outreach and promotional activities incorporated in the country's health strategy. A
number of village health posts, established by some villages in Benin have not been sustainable for a
number of reasons, including the absence of a fully functional outreach and referral system. As ongoing
health sector management reforms improve capacity at the periphery, the role of village health posts and
their operational strategies would be defined.  However, these must remain demand-driven and
community-financed initiatives.



5
2.8.   Inter-sectoral Coordination and Community Participation. The coordination, monitoring and
evaluation of program implementation is the responsibility of the Comite National de Suivi de l'Execution
et d'Evaluation des Programmes du secteur sante (CNEEP). This inter-ministerial committee, created
in 1988 to undertake periodic assessments of the progress of the implementation of objectives set out in
the national health policy and strategy, is composed of high-level representatives of key central and line
ministries and of key stakeholders, including decentralized MOH authorities and community
representatives. At the departmental level, the Comite Departemental de Suivi de l'Execution et
d'Evaluation des Programmes du secteur sante (CDEEP) functions as a regional CNEEP. The sub-
prefecture management committee (COGES), made up of representatives elected from the communal
management committees (COGEC) (see below) and the chief medical officer is responsible for the
planning and management of health activities and resource use for the entire sub-prefecture, including
monitoring cost recovery and essential drug stocks. At the level of the commune, the health care
program is coordinated by the COGEC, an elected committee, whose membership includes women's
representatives and the head of the health center (CCS), usually a midwife or nurse. This committee is
responsible for managing essential drug stocks and proceeds from cost recovery. It participates with the
staff of the CCS in the preparation of budget estimates to be reviewed at the sub-prefectoral level prior
to submission to the MOH for consolidation. It approves local non-wage expenditures financed under
cost recovery. The COGES and COGEC are responsible for health promotion activities and for planning
annual activities for the center and for monitoring the use of the center's finances. They are also active
in health information dissemination, especially in the areas of immunization, maternal and child health
(MCH) and household sanitation.
B. PAST SECTOR PERFORNMANCE AND KEY ISSUES
2.9.   Since 1972, the Government has periodically updated its health sector strategy, in consultation
with IDA, WHO, UNICEF and other bilateral donors. The sectoral strategy for the period 1989-93
established a number of priority programs for improving the quality of health care and for strengthening
the organization and management of the health sector. Implementation of this strategy resulted in a
number of impressive accomplishments. Numerous aid donors invested in improvements in service access
and quality (para. 2.29). In addition, the first ongoing IDA Health Services Development project (Cr.
2031-DEN), approved in 1989, and cofinanced by the Swiss, supported:
(a)  the reorganization of the MOH and the creation of three new Directorates (with
corresponding services at the departmental level) for, respectively: Planning Coordination
and Evaluation (DPCE); Administration and Finance (DSAF); and Family Health (DSF);
(b) the successful extension nationwide of the cost recovery system and the creation of health
management committees at the commune level (COGEC) and sub-prefecture level
(COGES) through which communities manage cost recovery funds and participate in the
planning, implementation and evaluation of sector activities carried out in health facilities;
(c)  the establishment of a central procurement agency (Centrale d'Achat), which assures the
affordability and constant availability of essential generic drugs at all levels of the health
system; and
(d)  the establishment of mechanisms for eliciting and facilitating the involvement of various
partners in the planning, coordination and evaluation of sector activity (CNEEP and
CDEEP).
Despite these notable achievements, a number of issues continue to constrain the performance of the
health system. These are briefly described as follows.



6
1. Quality and Access
2.10.  Family planning services. Until recently, the development of family planning services has been
hindered by the Government's and communities traditional pro-natalist position, legislative and regulatory
restrictions, and divided responsibilities for actual service delivery. While information concerning the
demand for family planning services is incomplete, interviews with field staff and local committees
suggest that current demand for family planning services is not being effectively or fully met because both
quality and access are inadequate.
2.11.  Health Services. Due to acute underfinancing of the sector for a period of some 30 years, by
the late 1980s the existing health infrastructure had reached a serious state of deterioration and no new
construction or rehabilitation had been undertaken to improve service quality and access. Since 1989,
the Government has made significant efforts both to rehabilitate and re-equip health facilities and to
establish norms by level of service delivery, including: facility construction, staffing norms, standard
equipment lists, and essential drug lists. Based on existing criteria, 55 percent (206 of 373) of existing
health facilities now conform to established norms. While clear progress has been made, several
problems remain. The norms emphasize physical rather than programmatic criteria and compliance with
them is problematic for virtually all facilities not assisted by a project. In addition, past rehabilitation
programs have been funded essentially by donors, and this has resulted in significant imbalances with
respect to need and unequal resource and service availability between regions. Finally, because norms
have not been strictly adhered to, costly operating inefficiencies have been built into the system through
overbuilt and overequipped facilities. As a result, evaluations of utilization rates and health service
delivery in Benin indicate that significant investment since 1989 has not substantially improved the level
of care. Although effective coverage of the population has increased to an estimated 30 percent,
utilization rates remain very low at about 20 percent (as compared with neighboring countries where rates
of 60-80 percent are found). This suggests that while geographical (and possibly financial) accessibility
may remain a problem, the major problem facing the health sector is the range and quality of services
offered. Furthermore, while the establishment of the Centrale d'achat has increased the availability of
low-cost, essential drugs in the public health facilities, still lacking are an overall regulatory framework
for controlling the import and sale of pharmaceuticals, effective systems for stock management,
distribution and accounting and improved prescription practices.
2.12.  Nutrition Services. Existing data indicate an adequate production of food, on the one hand, and
malnutrition rates of 10-20 percent among children under five, on the other.  Such results have
contributed to a lack of consensus about the extent and magnitude of the country's nutritional problems
and have hindered development of effective strategies to deal with malnutrition. Furthermore, efforts of
numerous ministries and other agencies, such as UNICEF and NGOs, have been fragmented and
uncoordinated. In the absence of complete information on the prevalence of malnutrition in Benin, no
comprehensive policy or strategy has been adopted. As a consequence, nutrition services and activities
are underdeveloped and poorly managed, and their impact unknown.
2.13.  Referral system. The pyramid of health services does not function properly as a referral system.
Quality of services is low at all levels of the system. There is little, if any, communication between the
various levels of service, and virtually no mechanism for managing referral cases. Furthermore, facilities
are inefficiently used by the population: the considerably more expensive, higher-level facilities are
consulted for the most basic primary care, which is highly cost-ineffective.
2. Sector Management
2.14.  The quality and effectiveness of the health system are seriously constrained by weak management
capacity. Roles and responsibilities for management and decision making are excessively centralized,
particularly with regard to management of infrastructure, management of human resources and planning
and budgeting. A decision taken in 1992 to eliminate the directorate of financial and administrative



7
affairs exacerbated weaknesses in budgeting and investment programming. Those best placed to make
informed decisions on the optimal use of resources (i.e., those at the more decentralized levels of the
system) have neither the authority, the means, nor the essential skills for carrying out key management
functions. In fact, there is a lack of capacity at all levels of the system to carry out functions which are
crucial to the efficiency and effectiveness of health sector operations, notably: information collection and
analysis; formulation of national health policy and strategy; planning, programming and budgeting;
resource mobilization and aid coordination; management of human, physical and financial resources;
training and supervision, both of a technical and of an administrative nature; quality control; and
monitoring and evaluation. Furthermore, roles and responsibilities at each level of the system for
carrying out key management functions are not clearly defined, and management systems and processes
are ambiguous, thus further inhibiting the system's effectiveness.
2.15.  Community Participation. The COGES and COGEC were initiated in 1989 under the first IDA-
financed health project as a means of stimulating the interest and involvement of Benin's population,
whose confidence in the health system was seriously waning. Through the creation of these committees,
the Government aimed to institutionalize participation and to define more clearly the role of the state,
communities and donors in the development of the health sector in the medium term. These committees
were also created with a view to involving communities more fully in health prevention activities and to
providing an institutional guarantee that resources collected through cost recovery activities would be
retained and managed by these committees and used for replenishing drug stocks and for financing other
non-salary recurrent expenditures. In several years of operation these committees have demonstrated their
potential; this experience has also highlighted issues which still need to be addressed.  Many
COGES/COGEC members lack motivation due to a number of factors, most notably lack of
understanding of their roles and functions, lack of skills in community financial management and in group
animation techniques, lack of opportunity to exchange information and ideas at the departmental and
national levels, and (for some) lack of financial remuneration. While the bylaws state that elections
should be held every two years, elections have not been held that frequently or routinely. Some aspects
of financial management of these committees are not fully explicit in the bylaws, particularly with regard
to modalities for using excess funds aggregated at the sub-prefectoral level and modalities for assisting
those CCSs running a deficit.  Furthermore, accounting capacity (skills and systems) at the sub-
prefectoral level is lacking. Finally, while COGEC bylaws provide for a seat each for one woman and
one youth elected by their peers to represent their interests, COGES members are elected from among
the COGEC officers (presidents, treasurers and secretaries). There is thus a significant risk that women
and youth would not be represented on the COGES.
2.16.  Inter-sectoral Coordination. The establishment in October 1988 of the CNEEP and of its
departmental bureau, CDEEP, constituted an important step on the part of the government to improve
program coordination and to strengthen decision-making capacity in the Ministry. Their creation was
meant to correct serious weaknesses in the planning, coordination, monitoring and evaluation of sector
investments, which were largely donor-driven. Since their creation, these two organs of intersectoral
coordination have not been sufficiently active, particularly at the departmental level; they must be
revitalized to enable them to carry out their important functions. Furthermore, while their membership
accommodates representatives from other line ministries and some NGOs, there is at present no
permanent seat for representatives of the COGES/COGEC, whose perspectives on investment planning
and monitoring would be valuable.
2.17.  Human Resources. The Ministry has made important progress in inventorying personnel and
establishing a computerized system for personnel management at both the central and departmental levels.
The results of this work revealed severe shortages of key service staff in Benin, particularly doctors and
midwives, whose ratios to the population (1/20,000 and 1/12,000, respectively) are twice those
recommended by WHO (1/10,000 and 1/5,000, respectively). Furthermore, these scarce resources are
inequitably distributed across the country, the most underserved areas being the rural areas and the North.
Benin's ratio of nurses to population is in line with WHO recommendations and nurses are rather



8
equitably distributed across the country. However, the range of qualifications of staff included in this
category is great, with the more qualified staff concentrated in the South and urban areas. Except for
the recruitment of 74 staff in 1994, there have been no new entrants into the health system since 1986.
Unfortunately, more than one third of those staff recruited in 1994 were health aids, who were ill
equipped to fill acute needs for more qualified staff. There is also a severe shortage of qualified
managers and administrators at all levels of MOH administration. Annual departures due to retirement
over the next 12 years are projected to increase from 50 to 200. This will further compromise
availability of qualified staff, unless vigorous recruitment of essential staff is undertaken, both to fill
existing gaps and to replace departing staff. While the adjustment program calls for a freeze in
recruitment of civil servants, there is a recognition on the part of central ministries of the acute shortages
of key technical and administrative staff in the health sector. And there is a willingness to accommodate
an increment of human resources for health within the context of the overall freeze, given the high
priority placed on health sector development, reflected both in the PFP and in the SALs. This should
be vigorously pursued. Annex 4 provides estimates of needs for additional personnel by level and by
category. Finally, MOH capacity to plan, manage, train and supervise human resources for health
remains weak. The human resources implications of sector reforms, which the MOH has embarked upon
(reorganization and decentralization of management and service delivery) have not been fully worked out,
or addressed through a human resources strategy or plan of action to ensure the success of these reforms.
2.18.  Health Financing and Financial Management. As shown in Annex 5, MOH's share of the public
current budget declined from 8.8 percent (or CFAF 4 billion) in 1987 to 3.2 percent (or CFAF 2.7
billion) in 1992. Since 1993, however, the MOH share of the public budget has been on the increase,
reaching 3.9 percent in 1995 (or CFAF 4.2 billion). It is significant to note that the proportion of the
public current budget going to health increases significantly, when other budgets (depenses communes)'
are taken into account: total public budget allocated to health amounted to 7.7 percent in 1994 and 8.0
percent in 1995. The salary share of the health budget has declined over the past several years from 79
percent in 1989 to 62 percent in 1995. Again, these levels decrease significantly to 29 and 30 percent,
respectively, when taken as a proportion of the total current budget allocated to health. In 1994 the MOH
succeeded in spending 97 percent of MOH budget allocations, but only 29 percent of depenses communes.
This translates into an overall execution rate of 65 percent of total public funds allocated for health.
Annex 6 shows the evolution of the various sources of health sector financing in Benin, both past and
projected. Both donor funding (largely for investments) and cost recovery (for non-salary recurrent costs)
have become increasingly important. Despite the real need for investments, capacity to absorb donor
assistance is limited. In 1991 and 1992, respectively, 55 and 30 percent of external financing was spent.
Reasons for such low absorption of external aid include rigidity of conditionalities, administrative and
structural constraints and insufficient familiarity with rules and regulations of the various donors. These
are expected to be corrected with the establishment of the DPCE and the revitalization of the
CNEEP/CDEEP, both of which will be supported under the proposed project. It is becoming
increasingly necessary for the Government to formulate an adequate financing policy, which would
establish the principles and regulate the practices for cost sharing among the Government, donors and
beneficiary populations. Donor assistance is described in para. 2.29.
2.19.  Planning tools have been developed over the past five years to monitor sector resource use, but
they have not yet been fully incorporated into the budget formulation and expenditure process. The
three-year health sector development plan (PTD), prepared by the MOH with technical assistance
provided under the first project, provides a detailed review of donor (and potentially government) funding
of sector activities for the past year and for the coming three years. Computerized and updated annually,
the PTD permits an analysis of sector funding over time by program, region/level, source of funding,
Depenses communes is a budget category, which includes funds for, inter alia, maintenance of health centers
and administrative buildings, subsidies for health centers, operating costs of the CNHU, training, professional
missions, and health care costs for civil servants.



9
etc. The program budget reviews past activities and expenditures as well as future objectives and
resource requirements for each health facility. In light of requirements under the proposed SAC III
operation that each line Ministry submit quarterly reports on the budget execution, it is expected that the
Ministries of Plan and Finance will gain a better appreciation of these financial management tools and
will thus utilize them more effectively during the budget formulation, allocation and authorization phases.
Both skills and systems for financial management are currently lacking in MOH.
C. NATIONAL POLICY AND MEDIUM-TERM SECTOR STRATEGY
1. Population
2.20.  With support from UNFPA, a draft population policy was developed under the responsibility of
the Institut national de la statistique et de I'analyse economique (INSAE) of the Ministry of Plan and
Economic Reform. The development of this policy was highly consultative, including the holding of a
number of national and regional workshops and seminars to elicit the perspectives of various factions of
society, including religious groups, and of bilateral, multilateral and non-governmental partners. In the
PFP for 1994-1996 the Government acknowledges the very rapid rate of population growth and its
negative impact both on family wellbeing (particularly that of mothers and children) and on prospects for
achieving its development goals. It has committed itself to promoting family planning as an instrument
of development policy. Furthermore, the PFP specifies that a national population policy will be approved
by the Council of Ministers before end-November 1995. Both the recent Cairo Conference and donor
requests to include family planning services delivery components in their projects have encouraged the
Government to take such positive steps in this critical area of development policy. The approval and
dissemination of this policy by the end of 1995 will provide the enabling environment for urgently needed
actions to improve the quality and access of family planning information and services.
2. Nutrition
2.21.  On December 27-28, 1994 a workshop was held in Cotonou to inaugurate an intersectoral
National Committee for Food and Nutrition and to adopt a national plan of action for food and nutrition.
Developed through a series of consultative workshops, under the leadership of the Directorate of Applied
Nutrition Activities of the Ministry of Rural Development, this plan consists of nine strategies: (a)
integration of nutrition concerns and objectives in development policies and programs; (b) improvement
of household food security; (c) evaluation, analysis and surveillance of nutrition status; (d) improvement
of food quality; (e) prevention and treatment of infectious and parasitic diseases; (f) promotion of
breastfeeding; (g) direct support of population groups, which are disadvantaged socio-economically and/or
vulnerable to nutritional insecurity; (h) prevention of micronutrient deficiencies; and (i) promotion of
nutritious diets and healthy behaviors. The creation of the Committee and development of this plan of
action set up a much needed institutional and strategic framework for the coordination and implementation
of food and nutrition activities in Benin. More details on these initiatives and their context for Bank
interventions (IDA-financed Food Security project, and nutrition component to be financed under this
project) are provided in Annex 7.
3. Health
2.22.  On the occasion of the Health Sector Round Table, which was held in Cotonou, January 12-13,
1995, the Government and national and international partners discussed and debated a draft sector strategy
for the period 1995-99. This draft strategy was prepared by a task force, established by the MOH in
1992, which evaluated existing policy and strategy and sector performance. The work of this task force
benefitted from technical and financial assistance from donors active in the sector, including the European
Community, which led this effort, and the Bank. And it culminated in the preparation of background



10
documents for the Round Table. A number of points of consensus were reached at the Round Table for
further strengthening the draft strategy, which, it was agreed, would be incorporated into a revised draft.
The strategy statement, submitted to IDA, provided the basis for the Government's Letter of Sector
Development Strategy (Annex 8), a draft of which was discussed and agreed during negotiations. This
Letter specifies that the MOH will finalize and disseminate its national sector strategy by end-December
1995, incorporating revisions suggested by participants to the Round Table, which should ensure its
integrity and coherence. It is the intention of the MOH that its sector development strategy should
provide the basis for eliciting and coordinating the contributions of all donors active in the sector, who
were widely consulted during its preparation. In addition, the draft three-year development plan (PTD)
for the period 1995-97 was also discussed and agreed during negotiations with a view to ensuring its
reflection of the new sector strategy and priorities therein.
2.23.  In support of national health policy goals, and drawing on lessons of experience, the new strategy
places great emphasis on consolidating and building on notable achievements of the previous strategy
(1989-1993), most particularly: (1) the reorganization of the MOH; (2) the extension nationwide of cost
recovery and the creation of health management committees (COGES/COGEC); (3) the establishment of
the Centrale D'Achat, which assures affordability and availability of essential drugs at all levels of the
health system; and (4) the establishment of mechanisms for fuller participation in the planning,
coordination and evaluation of sector activity (CNEEP/CDEEP). Fully cognizant of the constraints
caused by an excessively centralized Ministry and by a lack of technical and managerial capacity, the new
sector strategy proposes to reform sector organization with a view to achieving improvements in the
quality, access and efficiency of services. The general orientation of these reforms include:
Strengthening and decentralization of sector organization, management and administration
for greater efficiency and effectiveness, with particular emphasis on: the development of central
MOH and DDS capacity in planning and in the mobilization and management of sector resources
-- both human and financial, and the gradual establishment of health districts.
Streamlining and strengthening of the referral system, strengthening priority programs and
services and building on accomplishments already achieved in the supply of essential drugs
to improve the quality, cost-effectiveness, accessibility and affordability of basic health services
at all levels of the system.
Expansion and strengthening of intersectoral coordination and commnunity participation in
health to ensure optimal contribution of the various contributors and stakeholders in sector
management and service delivery, including beneficiaries, private sector (both for-profit and non-
profit), academic and research institutions, service delivery staff and decision-makers at all levels
of the health system, and decision-makers and implementors working in other relevant sectors
at central and peripheral levels.
Finalization and dissemination of the national sector strategy by the end of December 1995,
incorporating revisions suggested by participants to the Round Table which should ensure its
integrity and coherence.
The proposed structure for the reformed health system is presented in Annex 9 and key elements of each
of these reforms are presented below.
2.24.  Sector Organization, Management and Administration. By Government Decree 145-94 of May
24, 1994, the Ministry of Health was restructured, with a view to streamlining and decentralizing sector
management and administration (see Annex 10 for new organigramme). Three new central-level
Directorates were created to strengthen capacity in, respectively: planning, coordination and evaluation;
administration and management of human and financial resources; and the design and delivery of priority



11
programmes for family health. The latter would be instrumental in equipping MOH to carry out its
responsibilities for implementing the national population policy, expected to be adopted before end-
November 1995, and the national plan of action for food and nutrition, adopted on December 28, 1994.
During 1995-99, these Directorates and their regional services would be established and strengthened to
enable the effective decentralization of each of these key functions.
2.25.  Under the Government's revised sector strategy strategic planning functions of the MOH would
be strengthened, building on the three-year rolling investment program initiated under the first project.
New and decentralized budgetary processes would be put into place to improve resource use and
accountability, and to give greater autonomy to local health committees in the management of resources
generated through cost recovery. The new strategy envisages the development of a new financing policy,
based on the cost recovery and essential drugs programs developed under the first project, which would
clearly outline the sharing of costs of administration and of services offered at different levels of the
health care system, by, respectively, the Government, the beneficiaries, and external donors. In this light
the Government will commit itself to increasing over the medium-term the percentage of the public budget
that goes to health.
2.26.  The new sector strategy envisages the development of a human resources strategy which would
support the successful implementation of sector reforms through improvements in manpower planning,
training, supervision, and management. Reforms in the area of human resources development in the sector
would be linked: with the ongoing program of civil service reform, with Government budget
commitments under the health financing policy, and with SAC III -- all of which would enable the
recruitment and deployment of needed incremental staff to provide a minimum level of technical and
managerial competencies to ensure better health care services to the general population, and successful
decentralization of sector management and administration.
2.27.  Ouality and Effectiveness of Services. The sector strategy will streamline the health pyramid
through the progressive consolidation of basic services at the periphery. In this light, improvements in
the management and delivery of first referral services at district (zone) hospitals and of second-level
referral care in regional hospitals will constitute a key element of the reforms. The definition of patient
care norms and standards for the staffing and equipment of these facilities will ensure a minimum level
of technical capacity needed to deliver referral services for which they are responsible. The Government
will consolidate achievements in the area of essential drugs procurement within the permanent statutes
of the Centrale d'Achat and through the strengthening of the Department of Pharmacy in the areas of
pharmaceutical legislation and regulatory control of private pharmaceutical operators. As a condition
of effectiveness, a legal status for the Centrale d'Achat acceptable to the Borrower and IDA will be
adopted.
2.28.  Expanded Partnerships for Health. The revitalization and strengthening of COGEC, COGES,
CDEEP and CNEEP and the establishment of health management committees (COGEZ) in the new health
zones (para. 3.16) will ensure that key stakeholders are regularly involved, in line with their comparative
advantages, in the planning, management, implementation and evaluation of health care activities. This
reform would render the health system more accountable to the needs of the population through the
involvement of elected local health committees, who are held accountable to their own communities. The
role of these local health committees in the planning and evaluation of health activities and their autonomy
in the collection and management of cost recovery funds is key to ensuring sufficient and meaningful
involvement of beneficiaries. The bylaws of these health committees will be revised and appropriate
training in management, community outreach and health promotion will be provided to enable these
committees to realize their potential. In order to increase the participation of private sector health
providers, the Government will expand and institutionalize the involvement of the private sector (for-
profit and non-profit) in sector development, coordination and evaluation. The private health facilities



12
will be incorporated into the concept and development of district (zone) health services in a manner that
does not jeopardize their autonomy and independence. The Government will standardize norms for
clinical care, qualifications and equipment of private facilities to protect the general public against
exploitation by unscrupulous profit seekers.
4. Composition of Donor Assistance to National Policy and Strategy
2.29.  Some 20 multilateral, bilateral and non governmental partners are providing assistance to the
health sector in Benin; and the volume of this aid has grown significantly in recent years -- from 5.5
billion CFA in 1990 to 12.3 billion in 1992. Based on data from the three-year development plan, which
reflects donors' program commitments, this level of aid will be maintained over the next several years.
Annex 11 shows financial commitments of all partners for the period 1994-1998. A considerable portion
of aid to the health sector is allocated to construction/rehabilitation and equipment of health facilities to
improve access and services. Unlike the situation in many African countries, geographic subregions
(departments) benefit from the interventions of multiple donors rather than only one. Improvements in
access to services are being supported by the French Cooperation (FAC), the German Cooperation
(GTZ), the Swiss Cooperation, the Government of Netherlands, the People's Republic of China, the
Africa Development Bank (AfDB), and the Islamic Development Bank (IDB). In addition, considerable
support is also being provided to strengthen priority health programs, such as: STDs/AIDS (FED, WHO,
UNDP, Canada, USAID, IDA, FAC, Swiss), and MCH/FP (UNFPA, WHO, IDA, UNICEF, USAID).
While some assistance is also provided to strengthen information systems (FAC, IDA), strategic planning
(FED, IDA), and community participation (IDA, Swiss, and UNICEF and GTZ), external aid focuses
in large part on one or several technical program(s) and/or subregion(s) and is not systemic in its
approach. The extent of donor support is a source of both strength and weakness; it has permitted the
health sector to develop but at the cost of government acceptance of a project approach, which can
fragment efforts, ignore strategy and create inequities. At the recent Health Sector Round Table, donors
expressed their willingness to continue their support of the health sector and to channel such support in
a more coordinated fashion through the vehicle of the new health sector strategy. The creation of the new
MOH Directorate for Planning, Coordination and Evaluation and the strengthening and decentralization
of its functions is key to enabling MOH to take advantage and effectively manage this opportunity.
D. THE BANK GROUP'S ROLE AND SECTOR ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
1. The First IDA-Funded Health Project
2.30.  In 1989 IDA supplemented the first SAC with a hybrid project (Health Services Development
Project, Credit 2031-BEN) co-financed with the Swiss Government at a total cost of US$32.0 million.
IDA funding for this ongoing project amounts to US$18.6 million, Swiss Government grant funds total
the equivalent of US$11.3 million and Government contribution amounts to US$2.1 million equivalent.
The project supports a comprehensive package of national health policy reforms that aim to strengthen
the Government's capacity to respond to basic needs of the population. A combination of quick
disbursing funds and program investments are supporting Government efforts to: (a) strengthen the
institutional capacity of the Ministry of Health; (b) mobilize additional resources through cost recovery
and increased community participation; (c) improve the quality of primary health care through
infrastructure rehabilitation and strengthening of priority programs and services; (d) develop small-scale
pilot projects; and (e) improve manpower and human resources development.
2.31.  While only about 50 percent disbursed, and with a closing date scheduled for 1997, assistance
under the first project has already culminated in a number of achievements, which have contributed to
improvements in the quality and coverage of basic health services. An independent essential drugs
procurement system has been set up and has ensured the regular supply of essential drugs at affordable



13
prices; mechanisms have been put in place to involve beneficiaries in the management of cost recovery
and promoting health; staff have been redeployed to reduce inequities among the regions; supervision and
in-service training have improved. Improvements in institutional management processes have included
the preparation of a comprehensive sector three-year rolling investment plan, the establishment of
computerized personnel management files, the institutionalization of a program management system and
the introduction of an inter-sectoral coordination mechanism (CNEEP/CDEEP) for program review and
monitoring. The first project also supported an organizational audit of the MOH, which led to the
definition and adoption of a much improved organizational structure. The first of three phases of
construction of peripheral health facilities has been completed, with the second about to start.
2.32.  The launching of the second project is timely.  It will consolidate reforms and build on
accomplishments initiated under the first and will, in fact, facilitate implementation of the first. It aims
to build the capacity of structures for improved sector management, which the first project helped to
create, most notably: the three new Directorates within the newly organized MOH at central and
decentralized levels, the Centrale d'Achat, and structures for partnerships: CNEEP/CDEEP, and
COGES/COGEC. The second project will also complement support programmed under the first: while
the first project rehabilitates primary health care services at the bottom of the health pyramid, the second
targets the rehabilitation of first- and second-referral services, whose backstopping of primary health care
activities is essential to ensuring quality and efficiency of priority services.
2. Key Lessons Learned
2.33.  The first project confirmed the relationship between sound sector policy and community
participation for sustained mobilization of additional resources for the sector through cost recovery. Its
key contribution was to establish the linkages between the supply of low-cost essential drugs, the intro-
duction of cost recovery measures to ensure their continued availability, and the creation of management
committees with defined roles and responsibilities to oversee the use of the funds generated by the health
centers. Each element contributes to the credibility of the health sector with respect to both its clients
(or beneficiaries) and the Central Government authorities. With the development of planning and
programming tools (budget program and PTD), the sector managers have the means to plan and monitor
sector operations.
2.34.  The first project emphasized the promulgation of specific legislative and regulatory texts, which
were a necessary but insufficient condition for advancing sectoral reforms. Where reforms went furthest,
the texts were accompanied by informed and empowered structures, the most successful example being
the Management Committee of the Centrale d'achat and the least the CNEEP. The second project will
address more complex changes associated with the reorientation and decentralization of health care
delivery. While continuing to focus on the legislative/regulatory framework so as to safeguard advances,
it must also concentrate on changing traditional attitudes which have favored centralized decision-making
and inhibited the development of local initiatives. In particular, the development of the existing
partnerships at the local, departmental, and central levels should provide countervailing pressure against
the continuing urge to centralize decision-making.
2.35.  Experience under the first project has also highlighted the need to reinforce reforms through the
introduction of adequate funding levels, mechanisms and channels. This was best demonstrated by the
introduction of cost recovery measures, which were an important means for empowering the local health
management structures (COGEC and COGES). Where structures have some control over the generation
and use of resources, their relevance is apparent. Where structures have been introduced without the
financial means to assure their operations (as was the case with the CNEEP), they eventually become
marginalized. The second project will consolidate and streamline mechanisms for cost sharing by (1)
defining specific parameters for contributions by the Government through the budget, by donors through



14
project and other funding, and by beneficiaries through community financing (cost recovery) and (2)
defining procedures and accounting systems for ensuring the timely release of appropriated Government
budgetary allocations and project funds from donor supported projects. The Government will, in
collaboration with beneficiary representatives and donors, establish efficient and transparent accounting
and financial control procedures to be used by COGEZ, COGES, and COGEC to account for the
collection and efficient use of proceeds generated by cost recovery and allocations provided through the
budget.
3. Future Bank Assistance Strategy
2.36.  IDA has played a key role in assisting the Government in designing and implementing its
Structural Adjustment Program. IDA assistance has been directed to specific investment projects designed
to stimulate a supply response in the productive sectors, rebuild the state's institutional management
capabilities, rehabilitate infrastructure and road networks in the country and ensure the provision of basic
social services to all. As laid out in its Country Assistance Strategy, future IDA assistance will continue
in these areas and will provide funding for development projects included in the Government's 1994-96
PFP, which places high priority on social sector development. In the PHN sector, IDA assistance will
be directed toward consolidating progress and improvements already made under the first IDA-funded
Project. Special attention will be paid to removing current institutional and operational barriers to the
provision of better health, family planning and nutrition services to the general population. Sector
coordination, financial and personnel management, supervision and evaluation systems will be
strengthened.
.II. THLE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1    The overall objective of the project is to assist the Government in improving the health and well-
being of Benin's population, with particular emphasis on its most vulnerable segments (women, children
and the poor). It will do so through the support of national sector policy and strategic objectives. First,
in support of Benin's population policy (expected to be approved by the Council of Ministers before end-
November 1995), the project will assist in the further development and expansion of the family planning
program. Second, the project will support implementation of the three main reforms included in the
national health sector strategy for the period 1995-1999. These reforms, aimed at improving the quality,
coverage and efficiency of basic health services and at rendering the health system more accountable to
the population, are: (a) decentralization and strengthening of sector management and administration; (b)
reconfiguration of the referral system and strengthening of its capacity to provide technical support
services to primary health care and nutrition; and (c) expansion of the participation of multiple
stakeholders, including beneficiaries, in the planning, implementation and evaluation of national health
policy and programs.
B. SUMMARY DESCRIPTION
3.2    The project's support to the implementation of national sector policy and strategy will be
provided through four components:
1.   Developing and Expanding Family Planning (FP) Programs and Services. To ensure
nationwide availability of quality services and information, this component will assist the
Government in disseminating and promoting its population policy and in establishing a
viable, nationwide family planning program. It will also support expansion of FP services



15
and their integration into the minimum package of services at all levels of the public health
system.
2.   Improving the Ouality and Efficiency of Priority Health Services. This component will
assist the Government in revitalizing and streamlining the referral system, with a particular
emphasis on upgrading and improving the quality of first referral services through the
gradual establishment of district hospitals, and on establishing norms and standards for
quality services at all levels of the system. To this end, it will support upgrading of
selected health infrastructure and strengthening priority health programs and disease
interventions, most notably: maternal and child health services (including nutrition),
tuberculosis, STDs and AIDS, health education, water and hygiene activities.
3.   Strengthening Sector Management and Administration. This component will support the
decentralization of sector management and administration, which will involve the gradual
establishment of health districts, the strengthening and expansion of departmental-level
capacity, and the strengthening of key functions of the central MOH. It will also support
the development of key management capacities at all levels of MOH administration,
including mobilization and management of financial resources, management and training
of health personnel, planning, supervision, information collection and analysis, and
evaluation. In addition, it will continue IDA support of successful efforts initiated under
the first project to improve pharmaceutical policy, legislation and regulation and to fine-
tune systems and processes for ensuring the quality, affordability and timely replenishment
of essential generic drugs stocks throughout the system.
4.   Strengthening of Partnerships for Health. Under this component, existing mechanisms and
structures for intersectoral coordination and community participation will be revitalized
and strengthened. It will also support the operations of these committees through which
stakeholders will be more fully and routinely involved in the planning, management and
evaluation of sector activity at all levels of the health system.
C. DETAILED FEATURES (AND BASE COSTS)
1. Developing and Expanding Family Planning Programs and Services (US$2.3 million)
(a)  Dissemination and Promotion of the National Population Policy.
3.3    The project will support MOH in the dissemination and promotion of the National Population
Policy. The project will fund printing and distribution costs and will finance workshops and other
publicity activities designed to educate the public about the policy objectives, particularly as they relate
to health and family planning. These activities will include radio and drama programs in national
languages designed to reach communities in rural areas of all regions of the country. As a condition of
credit effectiveness the Government will submit to IDA a National Population Policy, acceptable to IDA,
as adopted by the Council of Ministers.
(b)  Expansion of Family Planning Services Country-Wide.
3.4    A major objective of the Government's medium-term sector strategy is to expand contraceptive
coverage country-wide through improved family planning services.  The project will support
improvements in the coverage, quality and availability of FP services in public health facilities, which
will complement USAID assistance, aimed at expanding alternative community-based and commercial
contraceptive distribution systems. The project will finance equipment, including FP surgical equipment



16
for district hospitals, and about 337 FP kits for peripheral services. It will also finance contraceptive
supplies and incremental operating costs necessary for facility-based service delivery. The project will
support the development and implementation of a new staff training program for expanding FP services.
Departmental trainers will receive training, pedagogic material and training manuals to enable them to
carry out service delivery-related training of service providers in their respective departments. During
the life of the project, 1,000 traditional birth attendants will be trained to integrate FP into their services
and to improve their ability to ensure higher standards during ante-natal care and improved hygienic
practices during delivery. Over 400 service delivery staff (doctors, midwives and nurses) would receive
training in new FP delivery techniques and in activities for promoting the adoption of FP by couples and
individual adults, who attend health facilities, and by those contacted during outreach activities. Six
physicians and nine midwives will receive training in FP in institutes in the Region that have developed
a capacity for such training. Skills in FP service delivery will also be monitored and enhanced through
the development and implementation of supervision protocols. The project will also support surveys and
operational research to determine more precisely: the causes and extent of maternal mortality, infant
mortality, determinants of demand for FP, and knowledge, aptitude and practice of various segments of
the population with regard to FP services.
2. Improving the Quality and Efficiency of Priority Health Services (US$10.9 million)
3.5    In support of national health sector policy and strategy, this component will support efforts to
rationalize and strengthen the referral system, for more effective and efficient delivery and utilization of
services. And it will also support efforts to improve the coverage, efficiency and quality of priority
health programs and services, which target the main causes of morbidity and mortality in Benin. In
accordance with national health policy, a particular emphasis will be placed on the integration of curative
services, on the one hand, with preventive and promotional activities, on the other. Specific activities
to be supported under the project are as follows.
(a) Strengthening of the Referral System.
3.6    In support of national efforts to reform  the referral system, the project will support the
establishment of health districts (zones sanitaires), which would provide technical backstopping of primary
health care activities carried out by lower level facilities (CSSP, CSS), and which would provide first
referral services in surgery, obstetrics/gynecology and pediatrics. The project would also support efforts
to strengthen second referral services at departmental hospitals (CHD). Under the new strategy, the roles
and responsibilities of the various levels of services have been sketched out, along with input norms ar.d
standards, for each level of service, encompassing infrastructure, technical plateau and numbers and
qualifications of health personnel. The project will support efforts to render selected facilities capable
of fulfilling their new roles. It will rehabilitate and equip 10 CCS, 4 CSSPs and 4 new district hospitals
(upgraded CSSP) and provide necessary laboratory materials for diagnostic work. The choice of these
facilities was made by respective DDS as a part of the decentralized appraisal process, and in light of
projects and activities of other aid donors in the sector. The project will finance the establishment of two
of a total of 12 district hospitals to be established in an initial phase of the Government's program. The
financing of two additional district hospitals by the project will be tailored to take into account the results
of an evaluation of the first phase, which would determine whether and how nationwide application of
the health district (a goal of the national health sector strategy) would be undertaken. The project will
also finance equipment for surgical, obstetrical, gynecological and trauma cases and for intensive post
surgical care units in one CHD. To ensure a minimum level of staffing of these facilities, the project will
finance the salaries of key technical and administrative personnel to be hired on a contractual basis.
Technical personnel to be recruited for six new district hospitals include: 8 doctors, 8 laboratory
technicians, 8 pharmacists and 6 social assistants. In addition, 8 administrator/accountants and 12
maintenance worker/drivers will be recruited. Nine doctors and 16 drivers will also be recruited to work



17
in CSSPs to be renovated under the project, whose beneficiary populations have been underserved due
to inadequate staffing and infrastructure. The Government has developed procedures for selection and
appropriate placement of service delivery staff to be hired on a contractual basis under the project. These
procedures are closely linked with civil service reform and cognizant of opportunities and constraints
inherent in the adjustment program, particularly those associated with recruitment and the composition
of the recurrent budget. Long-term, short-term, refresher and in-service training (described in Section
(b) below) will also ensure adherence to norms and standards for every level of service.
3.7    To improve the quality of care provided through the various types of facilities, the project will
finance the development of treatment protocols, case management guidelines, and patient care norms and
standards that would be applied nationwide. The Government will prepare by December 31, 1996, draft
texts, acceptable to IDA, establishing medical treatment guidelines, norms, standards, and protocols for
its health facilities and adopt a plan and timetable, satisfactory to IDA, for their application nationwide.
To ensure more efficient management of cases and a more rational use of resources, hospital management
systems will be evaluated and improved under the project.
(b) Strengthening of Priority Health Programs and Services.
3.8    The project will support selected programs and services targeted at the main causes of morbidity
and mortality of Benin's population. Support will be provided at all levels of the system, in line with
the newly defined roles of the various levels of services, and will include: the provision of technical
equipment, technical training, supervision, the development of norms, standards and protocols for each
program, operational research and evaluation and light technical assistance.  Project assistance by
program is briefly described below.
3.9    Reproductive Health. Efforts under this component complement those programmed under the
first project.  This project will finance commnunications equipment to facilitate effective referral,
management and follow-up of high risk cases and complications of pregnancy and childbirth. The
provision of eleven sonograms to district and departmental hospitals and the training of 12 doctors and
36 midwives in their use will significantly enhance detection of high risk cases. The project will also
support training of service providers in maternal health care. Kits for traditional birth attendants and
close supervision of their work should improve the quality of their services, focussing on management
of uncomplicated births, and recognition and prompt referral of complicated cases. To the same end, the
project will support the costs of supervision by the DDS and by the districts in their respective catchment
areas.
3.10   Child Health. Under the project, health facilities will be provided with cold chain equipment
to ensure the management and preservation of vaccine supplies. Training will be provided in the
maintenance of this equipment and in the various child health activities (in particular, immunization,
treatment of acute respiratory infections, and prevention and control of diarrhea). Funds will be provided
to each department to finance an evaluation of immunization coverage, and a survey to assess the extent
of utilization of oral rehydration therapy by the population, both with a view to fine-tuning program
strategies and efforts in light of findings.
3.11   Nutrition. The recent creation of an Intersectoral Committee for Food and Nutrition and the
adoption of a National Plan of Action for Food and Nutrition provide a much needed institutional and
strategic framework for addressing nutrition problems in Benin. The project will strengthen MOH
capacity to carry out its responsibilities within this broader framework. In this regard, efforts under this
project will complement those of the IDA-financed Food Security project, designed to support Ministry
of Rural Development capacity to implement its own responsibilities within that framework. Specifically,
this project will support (a) the proposed national malnutrition prevalence study to strengthen the basis



18
for program planning, resource allocation and program evaluation, (b) the development of a sentinel
surveillance system to monitor trends in the magnitude of deficiencies in priority population groups, (c)
strengthening of service provider capacity in the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of malnutrition, and
(d) strengthening of promotional activities to increase public awareness of nutrition problems and to
encourage behavior change to prevent them.
3.12   The project will finance at the level of each DDS surveys to enable them to track and enhance
knowledge of micronutrient deficiencies, particular to their respective regions. Qualitative data will be
collected to determine current household practices and to provide a basis for effective IEC activities. Key
process indicators for nutrition have also been incorporated into the health information system (SNIGS).
Six physicians (one from each of the DDS) responsible for nutrition will receive one month's training on
nutrition techniques, and will, in turn, provide basic and refresher training and follow-up supervision to
health service personnel in their respective departments (15 physicians and 15 midwives per department).
Equipment and material will also be provided to all public facilities to enable newly trained staff to carry
out their responsibilities effectively, including: distribution of micronutrient supplements, growth
monitoring and promotion, nutritional counselling activities (including promotion of breastfeeding), and
treatment and management of severe cases. Distribution of micronutrient supplements will include the
provision of iron supplements to pregnant and lactating women and the provision of other micronutrients
to vulnerable target groups identified through the prevalence survey and through ongoing surveillance.
The project will also support operational research to be carried out by each DDS on the promotion of
locally produced nutritious food. Areas for coordinating and collaborating with ongoing efforts of the
Food Security project have been identified and are presented in Annex 7.
3.13   Control of Communicable and Parasitic Diseases and Traumas.  The project will support
measures to improve the effective treatment and prevention of malaria, tuberculosis, STDs/AIDS. Short-
term technical assistance, external training and study visits, and the provision of office equipment will
strengthen coordination of the malaria and STDs/AIDS programs. Both of these programs will be
strengthened at the service delivery level through the provision of training and essential service and
laboratory equipment and material to the DDS and health facilities within their catchment areas.
Workshops will be used to prepare service delivery guidelines and define a policy for STDs/AIDS
prevention and treatment. To enhance program effectiveness a number of surveys, operational research
and evaluation studies will be carried out, at central and departmental levels to better determine: disease
prevalence; knowledge, aptitude and practice (KAP) of the population on treatment and prevention; and
program performance. To address a growing concern regarding dental and oral health, six nurses will
receive a three-month training in Africa, and they will, in turn, provide training to nurses working in
CSSP and CCS and to about twenty teachers per department. In addition, annual stocks of drugs and
supplies for the treatment of tuberculosis will be furnished to health facilities to enhance their program
capacity.
3.14   Promoting Community Health and Education. The project will strengthen capacity for producing
and disseminating educational messages for promoting better health and nutrition, safe motherhood, and
family planning. To this end, it will cover the costs of equipment, supplies and production activities at
central and DDS levels. Training activities will include study tours, and specialized training for one
person each in social communications, and in program evaluation. Local training will be given to DDS
teams, who will, in turn, train health personnel in their respective regions. Workshops will be held to
revise national IEC policy, design and develop locally appropriate messages, and translate messages into
local languages. Members of COGES, COGEZ and COGEC will participate both in training and
workshop sessions. The results of surveys and operational research, described above, will be used to
develop messages and training modules. The project will finance an inventory of KAP surveys already
undertaken and will carry out research on the communication channels most used by the public, through



19
which health, family planning and nutrition education messages can be channeled. Evaluations of the
impact of IEC messages will be carried out to ensure their effectiveness.
3.15   Water and Hygiene. The project will finance activities to promote safe water and hygiene,
including the reproduction and dissemination of the Code d'Hygiene Publique, Law No. 015 of September
21, 1987, and the provision of guidelines and training for health personnel and hygiene workers. A study
will also be carried out to evaluate the environment and its impact on health status, on which improved
strategies and IEC activities will be based. MOH's Directorate in charge of Hygiene and Sanitation will
be strengthened through the provision of office equipment, a vehicle, and the salaries of two incremental
personnel (sanitation engineer, and sanitation technician). The project will also finance the provision of
portable water control laboratories for testing the quality of water at the DDS level, and the construction
or renovation and equipping of a small water control laboratory in Cotonou. Water for all health
facilities to be constructed and renovated under the project will be at the disposal of all villages in their
respective catchment areas.
3. Strengthening and Streamlining Sector Management and Administration (US$12.1 million)
3.16   Implementation of the Government's new health strategy and programs will require considerable
strengthening of departmental and district-level capacity to enable them to effectively assume newly
decentralized management functions. And it will also require efforts to improve the performance of key
functions of central MOH in light of its newly evolved responsibilities for policy formulation, planning,
resource management and regulatory control. The project will support the implementation of the
Government Decree No. 94-145 of May 26, 1994, which creates three new Directorates for Planning,
Coordination and Evaluation (DPCE), Administration and Finance (DSAF) and Family Health (DSF) and
their corresponding services at the DDS level. This Decree also gives the DDS considerably more
responsibility and autonomy in the planning, support and oversight of health sector activities and in the
management of human, physical and financial resources. The Government has submitted to IDA the final
administrative texts outlining the attributions, organization and functions of the MOH, and profiles for
key positions. The Government has filled key positions in the three new central level departments and
in their corresponding services at the DDS level. The project will also support the establishment of a
new, third level of decentralized management: the health district (zone sanitaire). As discussed and
agreed during the Round Table, the Government's health strategy embraces a learning approach to the
establishment of health districts, and thus seeks to establish only two districts per department in a first
phase. An evaluation of this first phase would determine whether the Government would refine, revise
or totally reconsider its strategy to establish health districts nationwide. The project would support the
establishment and operation of two health districts, initially, and an additional two districts in a second
phase, if experience demonstrates their viability. The establishment and operation of the additional two
districts will be decided through the process of annual reviews and planning of project activities.
(a) Decentralization of Management and Administration.
3.17   To enable central, DDS and district levels to effectively implement their newly defined functions,
the project would provide necessary infrastructure, equipment, material, training and essential operating
costs. At the central level, the project would finance the completion of the new central MOH building,
and the supplemental office equipment and supplies needed to permit its occupation by the newly
reorganized MOH, which is currently dispersed across several ill-equipped and dilapidated buildings.
Each of the six DDS office buildings will be renovated and equipped. In addition, the project will
finance training of DDS staff in public health (one physician per DDS), in supervision techniques (ten
persons per DDS); and it will support information seminars for health staff on the new role of the DDS
and districts. The project will also cover essential operating costs of DDS including those for: training
and supervision of districts, and maintenance of infrastructure and technical equipment. The project will



20
also finance the salaries of contractual staff necessary to ensure a minimum level of staffing of DDS:
statistician, epidemiologist, files manager, sanitary engineer, sanitation technician, IEC specialist,
pharmacist, two maintenance technicians, maintenance assistant, accountant and administrator.
3.18   Project support for the establishment of 4 health district offices would include technical assistance
to help in initiating and coordinating this process. In addition, offices for the district team will be
constructed and equipped, and vehicles and other operating costs will be provided to facilitate supervision.
Training in Benin will include one-year programs in public health for the district health officers,
management and supervision techniques for district teams, and primary health care management for staff
of CCS and CSSP. These latter facilities will also be provided with vehicles for supervision, outreach
and evacuation activities.
3.19   As a part of the decentralization process, a recasting of roles and responsibilities for a dozen or
more administrative (or support) functions must be undertaken. The project will support the streamlining
of these support functions, the establishment of systems and procedures for their coordination and
execution at the various levels of the health system, and training of responsible staff at these levels,
through the preparation and dissemination of operational manuals. These manuals will provide an
overview of the rationale and content of key functions, describe the relevant tasks and responsibilities
assigned to each level of the health system, and outline how the various levels must coordinate and
communicate in carrying out such functions. Manuals will be prepared for the following key functions:
supervision; personnel management; health information; in-service training; management of drugs and
medical supplies; transportation; communication; facilities and equipment maintenance; financial
management; planning, programming, budgeting and evaluation; and patient referral. These manuals
would be prepared by experienced MOH staff with technical assistance from local management experts.
In order to ensure effective implementation of the decentralization of health sector management and
administration, annual reviews of activities in this area will constitute an important component of annual
sector performance reports on the key elements of the national sector strategy, which will be carried out
by CNEEP.
(b) Strengthening of Key Management Capacities.
3.20   Planning and Coordination of Sector Activities. The recent reorganization of the MOH has
established an institutional framework for improved sector planning and coordination. The project will
support continued development and utilization, and decentralization of existing sector planning and
coordination tools including the rolling three-year planning process (PTD), the management information
system (SNIGS), the health mapping exercise, the program budgeting process, and the computerized
personnel management system. To this end the project would finance short-term technical assistance (as
needed) and local training of central and DDS-level staff. In addition, the project would strengthen
capacity of DPCE staff through its support of external training for: one person in health economics, two
persons in public health, one person in health planning and one person in document management.
3.21    Planning and Programming of Health Infrastructure. In support of decentralization of this
function, the project will provide software and training to the DDS on the use of the health mapping
system. Material and training will also be provided to each DDS to enable them to prepare architectural
plans and to disseminate within their respective regions norms for each type of health facility. The
project will also support biannual evaluations of the state of health infrastructure to be undertaken by each
DDS.
3.22   Personnel Management and Training. Implementation of the Government's new health sector
strategy will require significant and long-term commitment to ensuring adequate coverage and quality of
staff as well as to improving capabilities for managing staff. The project would thus finance activities



21
related to: (a) recruitment of additional personnel; (b) supervision and training of staff; and (c) personnel
management. Recruitment of incremental personnel, financed under the various components of this
project would respond to current acute shortages of clinical staff in rural areas (especially in the north)
and of administrative and financial staff for the DDS to carry out tasks, which were previously the
responsibility of the central level. Estimates of the kinds and numbers of staff to be hired under the
project by category of personnel are presented in Annex 12. In summary, a total of 217 contractual staff
will be hired, of which 43 percent will work at the DDS to assume the newly decentralized and critical
technical and managerial functions, and 39 percent in the health facilities to fill critical needs for qualified
service delivery staff. These costs will be sustainable in light of projected increases in the health salary
budget, which are envisaged in the PFP and in SAC III (para. 3.27).
3.23   To improve the performance of its personnel, Government is proposing the establishment of a
comprehensive training program comprising pre-service, in-service, and specialized training as well as
systematic supervision. The project would support reforms to improve the quality of pre-service training,
specifically by financing the preparation of modules on generic drugs, cost recovery, family planning,
and other essential topics for inclusion in the basic curriculum. In-service training would be completely
restructured and reorganized nationally to address issues of quality and equity. Specifically, the project
would finance the design of a new in-service training curriculum, its testing, and implementation at the
DDS level. Each DDS would be specialized in a number of areas of the curriculum, thereby justifying
project support for curriculum development, refurbishment of appropriate classroom/field facilities and
equipment, deFign of didactic materials, training of trainers, and evaluation.
3.24   The implementation of the new health strategy through decentralized management will require
more rigorous supervision. The DDS will assume full responsibility for supervising project activities in
the respective regions. At an initial stage, the DDS will be responsible for the establishment of the health
district services. As the district teams become operational, management of district-level programs will
be shifted to them. The costs of supervision at the departmental and district levels are covered under the
various components of this project.
3.25   The first project improved personnel management by introducing methods and tools and by
training Ministry personnel. The second project would build on these strengths but would also define
more clearly the range of personnel decisions permitted at the departmental level. The project would
finance additional training in personnel management at the departmental level enabling DDS staff to: (a)
compare present and future staffing needs for implementation of the health strategy, and (b) formulate
and carry out a staffing plan (redeployment/recruitment) for the period 1995-2000. In addition, two
persons would receive external training in human resources management, and periodic workshops, to be
attended by managers and service providers, would provide a forum for discussion, debate and resolution
of human resource management issues.
3.26   Improved Allocation and Management of Financial Resources. The project will support MOH
efforts to refine and implement a health financing policy, which would clearly define the costs of health
services and the sharing of these costs by the communities, through cost recovery, and by the government
through the public budget. And it will improve MOH capacity in financial management. Specifically
the pioject will finance study trips and workshops to review and discuss options for health financing.
It will also finance the training of DDS trainers in budget preparation, who will, in turn, train staff in
facilities. One accountant per department will be hired under the project on a contractual basis to render
DDS capable of assuming newly decentralized responsibilities for financial management. A few selected
staff (one transit agent and four other technical staff) would also be recruited under the project to work
in DSAF. The project would continue to strengthen budgeting procedures and accounting arrangements
at all levels of the health care delivery system.



22
3.27   The Government has finalized the draft three-year development plan (PTD) for the period 1995-
97, whose descriptions of the various programs and actions have been revised to reflect the new sector
strategy. The Government will submit to IDA and to other donors annually by April 30 for its review
and comments: (a) the updated three-year rolling development plan for the health sector, and a report on
the execution of the sector's recurrent budget for the past year; and (b) its salary and non-salary recurrent
budget allocations to the health sector for the following year. Commitments to increase gradually health's
share of the recurrent public budget over the life of the project are reflected in the Letter of Sector
Development Strategy and in the proposed SAC III operation.  Coordination of the three-year
development plan and of the program budgeting exercises should allow Government to estimate and honor
its annual contribution to the health sector with more precision. In light of IDA support to strengthen
first and second referral health care, the government will submit to IDA by June 30, 1997 a report on
the analysis of cost estimates of hospital care and the Government's proposal for contribution to these
costs by the beneficiaries.
(c)  Operational Research.
3.28   The decentralized appraisal process uncovered a strong demand on the part of DDS staff and
service providers for support in locally-based research capabilities to gain better understanding of
problems and issues and to improve service performance at the local level. The project will build DDS
capacity to collect, compile and disseminate relevant findings of research already undertaken through the
provision of material, supplies and training for one documentation specialist per DDS. It will also
support the training of 30 service providers per department in basic techniques of operational research.
The project will also support the costs of small field-based research projects. At the central level (DPCE)
the project will finance the costs of office equipment, furniture and vehicles to backstop DDS and facility-
based activities. Also under the project two persons will receive short-term (1-month) training in
epidemiology; and occasional participation in international seminars will be financed. Short-term local
technical assistance will be provided to support the synthesis and dissemination of relevant research
findings.
(d) Strengthening of Pharmaceutical Sector Management.
3.29   In 1990, with assistance under the first IDA project, the Government found an effective solution
to past shortages in essential generic drugs. It established a financially autonomous agency, the Centrale
d'achat (CA) responsible for the procurement of medicines and medical supplies for public and private
non-profit health facilities. The project will consolidate and build on this achievement. With project
assistance the DHPL will prepare legislative and regulatory texts for the pharmaceutical sector, which
would facilitate private sector efforts to participate in implementing the national essential drugs program.
Short-term external training will be provided in pharnaceutical legislation, policy and control. The
Government will submit to IDA by September 30, 1996, a time based action plan, acceptable to IDA,
for regulatory reform  of the pharmaceutical subsector.  Private sector involvement will also be
encouraged through occasional meetings for exchange of information and through a feasibility study on
the sale of generic drugs. The project will also support the costs of training and information campaigns
to inform health personnel and the public at large about pharmaceutical policy and regulations, the
dangers of the illicit sale of drugs, and the cost-effectiveness of generic drugs. A study will also be
undertaken to provide the basis for setting up a price stabilization mechanism that would ensure continued
affordability of essential generic drugs, whose prices were temporarily frozen after the 1994 devaluation,
while bringing essential drug prices more in line with their market value. The Centrale d'Achat will
submit to its Board and to IDA (through MOH) quarterly reports on management of cash and stocks, and
annual audit reports on its accounts as a means of monitoring the financial health of this entity. The
project will also strengthen DPhL capacity through the financing of the salary of a statistician and
technical equipment and software to enhance inspection capacity.



23
3.30        To support ongoing cost recovery through the sale of drugs, the project will finance on
an annual basis throughout the life of the project supplemental drug stocks for all five CHD. It will also
finance complementary initial stocks for the four district hospitals to be established under the project;
complementary stocks for selected health facilities encountering difficulties in recovering the full costs
of drugs, and initial drug stocks for the 5 new CCS to be constructed under the project. Management
of these drugs stocks and prescription practices will be improved through the conduct of an evaluation
of current practices in public and private health facilities and training and technical supervision of health
personnel to improve performance in this regard. Improvements in accounting and financial management
will also be supported under the project.
4. Strengthening of Partnerships for Health Program Coordination and Evaluation (US$0.9 million)
3.31   The project will strengthen and further sustain effective participation of stakeholders in the full
spectrun of health and family planning activities. It will do so through the strengthening of committees
for community participation (COGES, COGEZ and COGEC) and for intersectoral coordination (CNEEP
and CDEEP), which, together, are responsible for eliciting and coordinating at all levels of the health
system the appropriate inputs of, respectively: clients/communities, NGOs, the public sector (centralized
and decentralized), the private commercial sector (including traditional practitioners), national and
regional institutions/academia and other relevant line Ministries. This reform is intimately linked with,
29 and is supportive of, the decentralization of sector management and administration.
3.32   CNEEP/CDEEP. The project would support the establishment and operation of a secretariat to
CNEEP, located within DPCE, responsible for the animation, facilitation, coordination, training,
monitoring and evaluation of the participation of stakeholders represented throughout the system. This
will include incremental salaries for contractual staff (one public health management specialist with
experience in community participation and one administrator/information specialist). The CNEEP will
prepare annual monitoring and evaluation reports on the implementation of the new sector strategy. The
project will support the costs of production of these reports and the costs of two annual meetings: one
to review progress at the mid-year (end-april), and the other (end-November) to review implementation
of annual plans and budget, to evaluate progress achieved and to plan and program the following year's
activities, based on the previous year's experience and achievements. This annual review will be based
on departmental-level reports to be prepared and submitted by CDEEP.
3.33   The DDS Division for Planning, Evaluation and Programming will be strengthened to enable it
to serve as secretariat to the CDEEP. Project assistance includes office equipment, training, technical
assistance, and support of incremental operating costs for supervision, evaluation and outreach. This
assistance will enable CDEEP to prepare reports on their quarterly meetings, whose purpose is to identify
and resolve constraints to implementation and provide solutions to these problems before they become
serious impediments to timely execution. These reports would also include financial reports on
decentralized project accounts and reports on overall progress in the implementation of civil works.
3.34   COGES. COGEZ and COGEC. The MOH has recently carried out a participatory assessment
of the experiences of COGES and COGEC thus far and has undertaken to address and resolve key issues
identified, most notably: timely delivery of training, autonomy of these entities, improvements to the
election process, and motivation of members. The project will support the costs of basic and refresher
training of COGES, COGEZ and COGEC members as and when health zones are established. This will
be done on a periodic basis, given that members are elected every two years. Training modules for
COGES, COGEZ, and COGEC members have already been developed by central MOH on primary
health care, community participation, leadership and teamwork, animation techniques, and management
of community financing. And training of departmental trainers has already taken place. COGES,
COGEZ and COGEC will cover other costs of their networking and outreach operations by retaining



24
a small portion of funds collected through cost recovery. Technical assistance will also be provided by
local NGOs as needed to strengthen management capacity and autonomy of members. Considerable effort
will be warranted under the project to ensure that: (a) operations at these levels are realistic in terms of
the capacity, availability, interests and comparative advantages of the various partners; (b) health
managers and other health personnel work effectively and in cooperation with partners; (c) the need for
conflict management is appreciated and effectively met; (d) partners will be given the opportunity
occasionally to share experiences and exchange ideas and best practices with their counterparts at the
various levels of the system; and (e) information (on the perspectives of the partners and on the quality
and extent of participation) flows freely and expeditiously, both up and down the system. As a part of
its annual review, CNEEP will evaluate progress made in building and sustaining participation of key
stakeholders in health and will revise plans for the coming year accordingly.
3.35   The Government has signed: (a) an Administrative text amending the bylaws of COGEC and
COGES (Arrete No. 0390 of February 14, 1995): (i) to expand membership to other partners working
on related issues in the same commune or sub-prefecture; (ii) to clarify aspects of financial management
and other operations; (iii) to establish two additional seats on the COGES for, respectively, one woman
and one youth, to be elected from women and youth members of COGEC within the sub-prefecture; and
(iv) to specify procedures for hiring with their own funds independent auditors to audit their own accounts
annually. As a condition of effectiveness, the Government will have adopted a decree, acceptable to
IDA, amending the bylaws and internal regulations of CNEEP and CDEEP to replace decree No. 90-236
of August 31, 1990, and Arrete No. 688 of February 27, 1989, creating the CNEEP and CDEEP: (i) to
specify the functions and staff profiles for their respective secretariats; (ii) to provide for the
representation of COGEC and COGES and other key partners in these entities; and (iii) to streamline its
operations.
5. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.8 million)
3.36   The project would support project management, monitoring and evaluation activities.
Responsibilities for project management and implementation will be undertaken by the appropriate
directorates and services of the newly reorganized MOH. The project would also finance the costs of
mid-term and final evaluations, two beneficiary assessments to be carried out in the second and fourth
years of the project and annual reviews of project experience and consequent revision of plans for the
following year based on lessons learned.
D. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
3.37   The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is estimated at US$33.4 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$20.2 million equivalent or 60 percent of total project costs. Base
costs are estimated on the basis of average 1994 post CFAF devaluation values. Physical contingencies
of 15 percent have been included for civil works and 10 percent for goods. Price contingencies have
been calculated at 2.5 percent per annum for foreign costs during the entire project and for local costs
at 14.5 percent (1995), 5.5 percent (1996), and 3.0 percent annually from 1997 onwards. Cost estimates
for civil works are based on actual costs from the second phase of rehabilitation of the first IDA-financed
project. Cost estimates for other expenditures are based on recent experiences and include changes in
prices quoted by suppliers after devaluation. The project financing plan by project component and by
disbursement category is summarized in Tables 1 and 2 below. Details are provided in Annex 13.
3.38   The IDA credit will be US$27.8 million equivalent, representing about 83 percent of total project
costs (about 91 percent of project costs net of taxes and duties). IDA's financing represents 96.5 percent
of foreign cost and 80 percent of local costs. Domestic counterpart financing will be US$5.6 million



25
equivalent, or 17 percent of total costs, and will be made up of US$5.1 million from Government
allocations and US$0.5 million equivalent from beneficiaries through cost recovery.
Table 1: Summary of Financing Plan by Project Component
(in USS Million, including contingencies)
Expenditure Category                             IDA       Beneficiaries   Total     IDAas % of
A. Development and Expansion of Family Palnning
Programs and Services                             2.4          0 4          2.8         86%
B. Improving Quality and Efficiency of Priority Health
Services                                         11.6          1 9         13.5         86%
C. Strengthening and Streamlining Sector
Management and Administration                    12.8          2.2         15.0         85%
D. Strengthening of Partnerhsip for Health           0.2          1.0          1.2         17%
E. Project Management                                0.8          0.1          0.9         91%
Total                                            27.8          5.6         33.4         83%
Table 2: Summary of Financing Plan by Expenditure Category
(in USS Million, including contingencies)
Govt. &                 IDA as % of
Expenditure Category                              IDA      Beneficiaries   Total        Total
1. Civil Works                                       2.9          0.7          3.6         81%
2. Goods                                             6.9          1 9          8.8         78%
3. Consulting Services/TA                            3 7          0.4          4.1         90%
4. Training                                          6.3          1.3          7.6         83%
5. Incremental Recurrent Costs                       8.0          1.3          9.3         86%
Total                                            27.8          5.6         33.4         83%
3.39    Recurrent cost implications. This project would generate incremental recurrent costs in the
amount of US$9.3 million equivalent, or 28 percent of total project cost. Of this amount, US$3.8 million
would finance the salaries of contractual staff who would fill key management and service delivery
positions in the health system. The presence of these staff is considered critical to the success of reforms
to decentralize and revitalize sector management and service delivery. More than 80 percent of these
staff would be working in the DDS and in health facilities, with the balance filling key positions in the
newly created directorates in charge of planning and management of resources. These contractual staff
would be hired for periods ranging from two to five years and the most efficient performers among them
would gradually be absorbed into the civil service as Government allocations to the sector increase. This
would be in line with the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) and proposed SAC III operation, both of which
advocate the allocation of more human and financial resources to the health sector. At the project's end,
their combined annual salaries would amount to the equivalent of US$0.77 million, or about 16 percent
of the approved 1995 MOH salary budget. The numbers, types and costs of contractual staff to be hired
under the project are shown in Annex 12. These costs are sustainable in light of Government's
commitment to increase resource allocations to health (para. 3.27). Incremental recurrent costs would
also include expenditures for supervising the setting up of program and financial management and
supervision systems envisaged under the project (totalling US$5.5 million).



26
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. PROJECT COORDINATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.1    Responsibility for project implementation will rest with the operational units of MOH as part of
their functions. Central and departmental level directorates will have direct responsibility for initiating,
coordinating, and evaluating the project activities assigned to them. The decentralization of responsibilities
should accelerate execution and avoid the slow, centralized procedures which have adversely affected
implementation of the first project. These are being addressed in the CPPR and in the mid-term review.
Furthermore, in light of the new reorganization of the MOH, the mid-tern review of the first project will
also seek ways to integrate the work and staff of the project coordination unit more fully into the relevant
directorates and decentralized levels.  During the course of project development, a draft project
implementation manual was prepared in collaboration with key MOH staff, which lays out roles,
responsibilities, procedures and processes for the coordination, management, implementation, monitoring
and evaluation of project activities --including performance indicators, and which also provides guidance
on procurement and disbursement, accounting, auditing and reporting. As a condition of effectiveness,
a Project Implementation Manual, satisfactory to IDA, will be adopted. The draft Project Implementation
Manual will be finalized during the project launch workshop, scheduled to take place prior to
effectiveness. This manual will include the detailed first year implementation plan. Annex 14 shows the
project management structure.
4.2    Within MOH, a Project Coordinator has been appointed and located in the DPCE which oversees
all sector investments. The Project Coordinator will: (a) facilitate implementation of project activities by
the different central level directorates and the DDS; (b) work closely with the Directorate of
Administration and Finance to ensure that accounting and audit procedures agreed to with IDA are being
respected; (c) work closely with the coordinator of the first project, whose workload is too heavy for him
to take on incremental responsibilities for coordinating the second project; and (d) maintain regular
contact with the Bank's Resident Mission and IDA on the technical aspects of project implementation.
Funds from the Japanese Grant have been budgeted for the training of accountants, procurement
specialists and other project implementation staff. These technical and administrative personnel will
provide back-up to the DDS who will be responsible for project management and supervision at the
departmental level.
4.3    The CNEEP and its corresponding departmental structure CDEEP will ensure intersectoral
r.ommunication and coordination concerning this and other health sector projects. CNEEP members
would represent: (a) the Ministries of Plan, Finance, Education and Rural Development; (b) the CDEEP;
(c) COGES/COGEC; (d) the central teaching hospital; (e) representatives of NGOs; and (f) donors
funding projects in the sector.  CNEEP will monitor progress and problems affecting project
implementation on a semiannual basis based on quarterly reports prepared by CDEEP. During appraisal,
IDA and the Government reviewed the statutes of CNEEP and CDEEP and agreed on measures to
increase their effectiveness in project monitoring and evaluation. The statutes will be signed by the time
of credit effectiveness. Local health management committees (COGES, COGEZ and COGEC) will play
an active role in infrastructure rehabilitation, IEC, cost recovery, and community mobilization and
education concerning the objectives and activities of the project. They will also participate in periodic
reviews at the commune and sub-district levels. Implementation problems will be resolved with assistance
from the CDEEP and the DDS.
4.4    Project implementation would be based on annual work programs and corresponding resources
identified by the three-year plan (PTD); these annual programs and budgets would be prepared by the
central and departmental level directorates, approved by the appropriate local structure (COGES, CDEEP
or CNEEP), and submitted to IDA for review and non objection at the beginning of each fiscal year.



27
Medium-term planning and annual programming tasks have been defined during project preparation for
these respective structures, and the project includes flmding to carry out this process. Training has been
provided to DDS and central staff on the use of the PTD. A project inplementation schedule discussed
and agreed with MOH staff is attached as Annex 15.
B. MONITORING, EVALUATION AND SUPERVISION
1. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.5    The CNEEP and CDEEP will take a lead role in project monitoring and evaluation and, as such,
will provide the mechanism for eliciting the inputs of Government, beneficiaries and donors in this
regard. In addition to the regular reporting of physical and financial progress, monitoring and evaluation
will cover three other interrelated aspects: health facility performance, beneficiary assessment, and health
status impact. During appraisal and post-appraisal a set of performance indicators for use at the level of
health facility were discussed. These indicators which represent a mix of inputs, outputs and outcomes
would provide the Ministry with (a) a systematic measure of its performing and non perforning health
facilities; and (b) a means for carefully assessing the critical factors associated with the quality of health
service delivery. They are presented in Annex 16 and are also included in the draft Implementation
Manual. The Government will submit to IDA a beneficiary assessment report on the impact of services
provided under the project in the years 1997 and 1999. These assessments would place a particular focus
on the functioning of health districts. With assistance from the FAC, the technical capabilities for
conducting health status impact analyses is being strengthened and would be used regularly by the project.
2. Supervision
4.6    MOH. District, departmental and central level personnel will supervise project activities during
their regularly scheduled supervision trips. The six CDEEPs will each meet quarterly to review progress
and discuss field-level project implementation problems; the CNEEP will meet semiannually to review
progress on sectoral issues. The Project Coordinator would prepare semiannual reports based on the
results of the CDEEP/CNEEP meetings indicating the project's physical/financial status as well as its
progress on the institutional issues.
4.7    IDA. Because of the sectoral nature of IDA's support and the decentralization of the proposed
activities, IDA supervision will rely on Resident Mission assistance, particularly to attend the CDEEP
meetings and to indicate problems needing urgent solution. Supervision from Headquarters would rely
on the quarterly and semiannual progress reports to provide the basis for the issues to be discussed during
the supervision missions.
4.8    The details of the Bank's supervision plan are provided in Annex 17. Two supervision missions
per year will be required: (a) no later than end of April to, inter alia, evaluate implementation of the
three-year sector rolling plan, conduct the annual review of project progress during the previous year,
to conduct a mid-year implementation review, to review the proposed annual programs and budgets for
the following year, and to examine the annual audit of the project's accounts; and (b) late in the calendar
year (November). At least one of these missions will coincide with a meeting of the CNEEP, so as to
demonstrate IDA's commitment to this institution. Donors will be involved in these reviews to encourage
a sector approach.
4.9    In addition, a mid-term review will be carried out not earlier than 34 months and not later than
38 months after credit effectiveness. To be carried out by an independent team of experts selected jointly
by the Government and IDA, the review would cover all of the substantive aspects of the project as well
as the processes being used and it would be consultative in its design. The results would be reviewed



28
jointly and the recommendations, once approved by the two parties, would be implemented as soon as
possible.
C. PROJECT IMPACT
4.10   Imnact on Women. Improvements in access to and the quality of family planning, health and
nutrition services will have an immediate positive impact on the life of Beninese women in a number of
ways. Raising the CPR will permit women to space births and thus alleviate the burden of maternal
depletion and continuous childbirth and the temptation to resort to unsafe abortions. Improved access and
outreach will also offer them the opportunity to deal with other obstetric problems and problems of
infertility or sub-fecundity which currently disrupt family life. The integration of family planning,
maternal and child health, and nutrition services will offer protection to mother and child and lay a solid
foundation for healthy growth of newborns and the welfare of their mothers. Effective management of
high-risk pregnancies and complications at delivery would save women's lives and offer them a better
chance of bringing up healthy children. Systematic monitoring of the nutrition of women will reduce the
current high rate of anemia among pregnant women and reduce the incidence of low birth weight.
Strengthening of the DSF will enhance MOH capacity to improve quality and access to family planning,
MCH and nutrition services. Such improvements will free women's resources and enable them to pursue
economic and social activities that fully integrate them into development activities and, as such,
complement to the recently approved IDA investment in primary education, which supports national
strategy to increase school enrollment for girls.
4.11   Environmental Impact. The project will have a positive environmental impact through activities
improving human and household waste disposal and sanitation. The health promotion activities by
COGEC and COGES will create greater community awareness of the measures needed to protect the
environment and keep public places (health facilities, schools, and markets) clean and provided with
toilets. In-service programs under the project will include training of clinical staff in proper procedures
for handling and disposing of blood products, needles and other hazardous materials.
D. PROCUREMENT
4.12   Procurement Code. A new procurement code was reviewed by IDA in 1992, approved by the
Government and submitted to Parliament, but it has not yet been approved. Under the SAC III operation
the Government has assured IDA that the new procurement code will be adopted by Parliement by June
1995. This new code would inter alia facilitate the current cumbersome procurement regulations. Other
measures to streamline the procurement process include the establishment of sample bidding documents
for national competitive bidding, which was discussed with MOH at appraisal, the existence of
experienced PIU staff from the first project, and recent training, in Abidjan and Dakar, of additional staff
in procurement methods.  The project implementation manual describes in detail the functional
relationships associated with the procurement procedures as well as the procurement information to be
collected and included in the semiannual progress reports by project management.
4.13   Procurement Methods. Table 3 below summarizes the project expenditures, their estimated costs,
and the proposed methods of procurement. All works, goods, and services financed under the IDA credit
would be procured in accordance with (a) Bank guidelines and standard bidding documents for
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and for Consultant Services ("Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits", January 1995, and "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency", August 1981), and (b) with Government documents and
procedures reviewed and approved by IDA for National Competitive Bidding (NCB) and other methods
of procurement.



29
Table 3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements 1
(US$ million, including taxes and duties)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category                                                     ICB           NCB          Other         Total
l _______________________________________________________________      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  C o s t
1. WORKS
(a) Construction (5) and RehabiLitation (5)
of Health Centers (CCS)                                                         1.0                         1.0
(0.8)                      (0.8)
(b) Construction of District Hospitals (4 HD)                                        1.5                         1.5
(1.2)                      (1.2)
(c) Rehabilitation of Health Centers (4 CSSP)                                        0.2           0.1           0.3
(0.1)         (0.1)        (0.2)
(d) Rehabilitation of DepartmentaL MOH Bureaux (6 DDS)                               0.3           0.1           0.4
(0.2)         (0.1)        (0.3)
(e) Completion of new HeaLth Ministry buiLding (1 MOH)                               0.4                         0.4
(0.4)         _            (0.4)
SUBTOTAL WORKS                                                                      3.4           0.2           3.6
(2.7)         (0.2)        (2.9)
2.  GOODS
(a) Furniture                                                                       1.2           0.1           1.3
(1.0)         (0.1)        (1.1) 1
(b) MedicaL Equipment                                                 1.7                         0.2           1.9
(1.4)                       (0.2)         (1.6)
(c) Other Equipment                                                   1.9           0.1           0.1           2.1
(1.5)         (0.1)         (0.1)         (1 .7) 
(d) Vehicles                                                          1.8                         0.2          2.0
(1.4)                       (0.2)         (1.6)
(e) Essential Drugs a/                                               0.5            0.1           0.9           1.5
(0.5)         (0.0)         (0.4)         (0.9)
SUBTOTAL GOODS                                                        5.9           1.4           1.5           8.8
(4.8)         (1.1)         (1.0)         (6.9)
3.  CONSULTING SERVICES t/
(a) Policy Support                                                                                 2.1           2.1
(1.9)        (1.9)
(b) Project Implementation Support                                                                 0.2           0.2
(0.1)        (0.1)
(c) InstitutionaL DeveLopment b/                                                                   1.6           1.6
(1.5)        (1.5)
(d) ArchitecturaL studies                                                                          0.2           0.2
(0.2)        (0.2)
SUBTOTAL CONSLTING SERVICES                                                                        4.1           4.1
(3.7)        (3.7)
4.  TRAINING  c/                                                                                       7.6          7.6
___________________________________________________  _________                       (6.3)         (6.3)
5. INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS
(a)  Incremental Contractual SaLaries                                                               3.8           3.8
(3.0)        (3.0)
(b)  Operating Costs g/                                                                             5.5           5.5
(5.0)        (5.0)
SUBTOTAL INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS                                                                9.3           9.3
(8.0)        (8.0)
TOTAL:                                         5.9           4.8           22.7          33.4
IDA FINANCING:                                         (4.8)          (3.8)        (19.2)        (27.8)
*/ Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by IDA, net of taxes and duties. Slight differences may occur as a result of
the rounding of figures.
'Other' means LIB, national shopping. IAPSO, and direct contracting, and consultant selection following Bank guidelines.
a/ The total amount of USSO.9 million under 'Other' consists of: National Shopping: USS0.2 million; Direct Contracting: USS0.2
million: and Limited International Bidding: USSO.5 million.
b/ The project will finance 85 person-months of external specialist support for implementation (Annex 18 provides the details) and
199 person-months of local consulting services, this includes consulting services for project auoits. echnical Assistance for
Institutional Development includes assistance on: planning and coordination of health services and improvement programs,
establishment of health districts, improvement of the cost recovery system. and selected surveys.
c/ Annexes 15 and 19 provide details on, respectively, local training and training abroad.
a/ Operating costs include office supply, field trips, and maintenance of buildings, vehicles and equipment and incremental
salaries of local contractual staff.



30
4.14   Works (US$3.6 million). The civil works program includes the completion of the new Ministry
of Health building which comprises construction of a laboratory for water quality control, the renovation
of six DDS office buildings, four sub-district health centers, as well as the rehabilitation and expansion
(construction) of four district hospitals, and 10 local health posts. In view of the nature of works
(rehabilitation and construction of small structure, in remote or over dispersed area, the civil works
contracts, even if packaged in larger lots, are not likely to attract international competition.
(a)  NCB: Civil works contracts estimated to cost US$1.5 million or less per contract and up
to an aggregate amount of $3.4 million will be awarded under National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) and will be open to foreign bidders who wish to participate. The four
district hospitals totalling an aggregate amount of US$1.5 million will be split in four lots
and bidders allowed to bid for one, two or all packages.
(b)  Direct contracting: Small rehabilitation, renovation or extension works of some rural
health posts, sub-district health facilities and DDS below an amount of US$30,000
equivalent and up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000 may be awarded by direct
contracting if no local competition is available.
4.15   Goods (US$8.8 million). Goods provided under the project include furniture for offices and
health centers as well as communication and small medical apparatus, surgical and medical equipment,
vehicles, and initial or supplemental drug stocks for departmental, district and the new local hospitals.
Drugs (US$1.5 million equivalent) will be purchased by the Centrale d'Achat, the drug procurement
agency established under the first project (see para. 4.16).
(a)  Goods other than drugs and medical supplies:
(i)  ICB: All contracts for vehicles, medical and other equipment will be procured through
ICB.  Locally manufactured goods will receive a preference in bid evaluation in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Exception to ICB procurement may be made only, if
necessary, for vehicles needed for the project start, up to an aggregate amount of
US$200,000, and to be purchased either through (a) UNDP's Inter-Agency Procurement
Services Office (IAPSO), or (b) national shopping.
(ii) NCB: Furniture and small office equipment, available in the country, will be procured
through NCB for contracts estimated to cost US$250,000 million or less and up to an
aggregate amount of US$1.3 million.
(iii) Other methods: Goods valued below US$30,000, for rural health facilities, will be
procured by national shopping procedures acceptable to IDA (with a minimum of three
quotations). Contracts awarded through national shopping would not exceed an aggregate
amount of US$400,000.
(b)  Drugs and Medical Supplies:
4.16   Drugs and medical supplies would be procured through the already functioning central purchasing
agency, the Centrale d'Achat (CA), whose procedures have been approved by its independent
management committee and the relevant local ministries as well as reviewed without objection by IDA.
The performance of the CA on procurement matters would continue to be subject to review by IDA. In
1992, the CA carried out a prequalification for drug suppliers to be updated every two years. For the
purpose of this project, a new prequalification exercise will be conducted for the first order of drugs to
be procured under the project (contract value of about US$250,000), using ICB. Consecutive contracts
would be procured following these procedures:



31
(i)  ICB: All contracts estimated to cost US$250,000 or more would be procured using ICB;
(ii)  LIB: Replenishment contracts estimated to cost US$250,000 or less per contract and up
to an aggregate amount of US$0.5 million would be purchased mostly by LIB from the
list of suppliers identified in the prequalification exercise;
(iii) NCB: Small contracts for drugs produced locally, estimated to cost US$75,000 or less
per contract and up to an aggregate amount of US$0.1 million, would be awarded under
NCB procedures;
(iv)  Contracts estimated to cost less than US$30,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount
of US$0.4 million, may be procured through other methods such as national shopping or
direct purchasing, depending on quantities and type of drugs involved and with the purpose
of renewing depleted initial stocks and assuring quality standards.
4.17   Consulting Services/Technical Assistance (US$4.1 million). The project will finance 85 person-
months of external specialist support for implementation and 199 person-months of local consulting
services. Details on the external TA are provided in Annex 18. All contracts financed by IDA will be
awarded on the basis of Bank guidelines for the use of consultants by Bank borrowers (para. 4.13).
4.18   Training (US$7.6 million) includes training abroad (US$4.4 million) and local training (US$3.2
million). External training needs, representing 1014 person-months (of which 930 for long-term training
ranging from nine months to four years), are described in Annex 19. Whenever appropriate, external
training will take place in the Africa region. Details of local training are provided in Annex 15. Plans
for external and local training needs will be reviewed and approved annually by IDA.
4.19   Incremental Recurrent Costs (US$9.3 million), including consumables and other administrative
costs, incremental contractual salaries, local travel, supervision and training allowances, building and
vehicle/equipment operation and maintenance, will be procured and paid for following regular
Government procedures, acceptable to IDA.
4.20   Review by IDA. Prior IDA review will be required for (a) all contracts above the thresholds
of US$100,000 for civil works and goods, including drugs; (b) all consulting services and training
contracts estimated to cost more than US$100,000 (for consulting firms), US$50,000 (for individual
consultants); and (c) all terms of reference for specialist and training services and all sole source
contracts, regardless of contract value, and any amendments of a value above US$100,000. Selective
post-review of awarded contracts below the prior review thresholds would apply to about one in five
contracts and would be made on the basis of certified Statements of Expenditures (SOE).
E. DISBURSEMENT
4.21   The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000 and the credit closed by June
30, 2001. The estimated disbursement profile is shown in Annex 20. Full documentation will be
requested for disbursements under all categories of the Credit. However, the Borrower may submit
withdrawal applications for expenditures under contracts for goods, works and consulting services (for
firms) costing less than $100,000 equivalent on the basis of certified statement of expenditures (SOE).
SOE would also be used for reimbursements of expenditures against contracts with individual consultants
costing less than $50,000 equivalent, and expenditures for training and incremental recurrent costs.
Documentation for withdrawals under SOEs will be retained at the DSAF of the MOH for review by IDA
supervision missions and for project auditors.



32
4.22    SRecial Account and Project Account. To facilitate disbursements, the Government will open
a Special Account (SA) in a commercial bank in Cotonou to cover IDA's share of eligible expenditures,
and to be managed by MOH with appropriate controls by the Ministry of Finance (MEF). The authorized
allocation for the SA will be US$1,500,000. To facilitate payments at the DDS level in accordance with
the strategy of decentralizing sector management, advances from the Special Account not exceeding
US$40,000 equivalent per Department may be made to each of the six DDS (decentralized) accounts.
Documentation pertaining to the DDS accounts would be forwarded every two months to the DSAF of
MOH, who will assure regular monitoring of the DDS accounts and replenish the accounts only when
satisfied with the documentation submitted (documented expenditures and bank statements).
Replenishment to the Special Account would be submitted to IDA every month under normal
circumstances but not less frequently than every three months. MEF would exercise its normal review
of expenditures through its regional financial comptrollers and in a manner that does not inhibit project
implementation. Withdrawal applications for direct payment from the Credit Account may be submitted
for expenditures above 20 percent of the initial deposit to the Special Account.  All supporting
documentation will be retained by the Ministry of Health and will be available for review as requested
by IDA supervision missions and project auditors. As a condition of credit effectiveness, the
Government will (a) open a Project Account and deposit an initial amount of CFAF 216 million; and (b)
appoint consultants to assist in the introduction of a decentralized accounting management and monitoring
system for the Project accounts and to provide related training. The Government will adopt by December
31, 1995, a budgeting and costing system, acceptable to IDA, for all levels of the health system for the
delivery of health services. The Government gave assurances that it will deposit into the Project Account
in each year during the implementation of the Project, an amount or amounts equivalent to the following
aggregates: (i) CFAF 349 million for the second year after the Effective Date; (ii) CFAF 200 million for
the third year after the Effective Date; (iii) CFAF 296 million for the fourth year after the Effective Date;
(iv) CFAF 237 million for the fifth year after the Effective Date, or other amount or amounts as IDA
may specify during the Annual Review and as being required for the purposes of the Project.
Table 4: Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the IDA Credit
| Amount of the    l
Credit Allocated    % of Expenditures to be financed
Category
1.  Civil Works                 3.0        100% foreign, 80% local
100% foreign, 100% local (ex-factory
2.  Furniture, Medical &        6.5        cost), and 80% local
Other Equipment,
Vehicles, and Drugs
100%
3.  Consulting Services, and    8.8
Training
90% up to December 31, 1998,
4.  Incremental Recurrent       8.0        thereafter 80%
Costs a/
5.  Unallocated                 1.5
Total IDA            27.8
Financing
a/ As defined in para. 4.19 above.



33
F. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND REPORTING
4.23   The DSAF will be responsible for the project's financial management and will maintain
consolidated project accounts. Vouchers and checks for payment will be signed by the DSAF and by the
Project Coordinator. Project accounts, including the SA, will be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA; all disbursements under SOEs will be audited semi-annually. The audit reports will
be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year. Japanese funds have been budgeted
for recruitment of an internationally recognized firm to establish an appropriate computerized accounting
system within the DSAF and to adequately train MOH and DDS personnel recruited by the project.
4.24   Audited accounts and reports would be submitted to the MOH and IDA not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year. The auditor would establish a "Long Form Report" as described in the
Bank's "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Project Financed by the World Bank", March
1982. Audit on project expenditures would include an examination of the substantiating documentation
and a verification that: (a) project accounts permit identification of all receipts and payments; (b) goods
had been received or work performed; (c) payments had been made; (d) all expenditures had been
legitimate; and (e) the special account has been used appropriately; along with an opinion on the
reliability of the SOE procedures and on whether the goods, works, and services acquired under the
project were being utilized in accordance with its objectives. The auditors would also include the
management report revealing possible shortcomings in staffing and systems, and evaluate the accounting
system and efficiency of the internal control procedures.
4.25  In light of the sectoral nature of IDA's support, annual work programs will be based on a review
of the previous year's experience in implementing national sector strategy, in which all donors would
participate. This will enable support to the sector to remain flexible and responsive to emerging issues,
lessons and opportunities. An Annual Review of project performance will take place no later than April
30 of each year. Government will submit to IDA and to other donors, at least four weeks prior to the
Annual Review an annual sector performance report to be prepared by CNEEP on the progress made in
the implementation of the Project and the national sector strategy. This report would cover, among other
things: (a) improvements in the quality of health services (particularly family planning, maternal and child
health, immunization, STD/AIDS, and strengthening of the patient referral system); (b) progress in
strengthening and decentralizing sector management and administration; (c) increase in participation in
various health activities of the private and public sector contributors to, and beneficiaries of, the health
services; and (d) in the years 1997 and 1999 an assessment of the impact of services provided under the
Project by the beneficiaries. And based on this performance report, submit to IDA not later than four
weeks after each Annual Review, an action program and budget acceptable to IDA for the further
implementation of the Project, including, if appropriate, consequential amendments to the Project
Implementation Manual, and, thereafter, implement such action program. As laid out in the draft Project
Implementation Manual, the Government will prepare through CNEEP semiannual project implementation
reports that include financial reports on decentralized accounts and on civil works funded under the
project, based on quarterly reports to be prepared by CDEEP in each of the departments.



34
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
5.1    The main benefit of the project will be improved welfare for the general population, especially
women and children, resulting from greater spacing of births and improved health and nutrition status.
The general population will benefit as family planning services are made available in all districts of the
country. Improved curative and preventive health services will motivate a growing number of Beninese
to use the health services and thereby reduce the high cost of medical complications. The institutional
reforms carried out under the project will enhance the Government's responsiveness to the basic family
planning, health and nutrition needs of the population and will lead to better resource use and greater
equity in service delivery. Greater involvement of beneficiaries in sector operations will strengthen the
decentralization process, lead to greater transparency and mobilize the population to prevent rather than
cope with disease. The project will contribute to building a solid human resource base for future
development and will progressively reduce the high dependency burden and limited opportunities for
women that result from high fertility, morbidity and mortality.
B. RISKS
5.2   The main risk of the project is the potential inability of the Government to carry out the
comprehensive refonns included in the project. Key stakeholders were involved throughout the process
of project preparation, which should mitigate any tendency by central level officials to stall sector reforms
or project activities.  The coordination mechanisms and supervision arrangements ensure regular
consultation among the MOH, beneficiary representatives, other ministries, donors, private sector
operators and NGOs to review progress in implementation and provide timely solutions to problems
detected. Another risk is that Government budgetary allocations may fall short of resources needed to
implement the project. Conditions to be met under the project include a restructuring of the current
public budget for health to encourage decentralization and increase absorptive capacity and a gradual
increase in the health sector share of the total current budget over the life of the project. In addition,
resources generated through cost recovery and managed by communities constitute a guarantee that
essential drugs and critical non-wage operating expenses are protected. To ensure greater sustainability,
the project design envisages a decentralized implementation strategy in which the regions, rather then the
central MOH, are primarily responsible for execution of various project activities. Periodic reviews and
annual programming workshops at the level of the CNEEP will ensure that all regions are respecting
implementation plans, standards and deadlines. Beneficiary assessments will also be used to monitor
sector performance.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1    During the negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will:
(a) submit to IDA not later than April 30 of each year for its review and comments: (i) the updated
three-year rolling development plan for its health sector for the succeeding years and a report on
the execution of the sector's recurrent budget for the past year; and (ii) its salary and non-salary
recurrent budget allocations to the health sector for the following year (para. 3.27);
(b) submit to IDA and to other donors, at least four weeks prior to the Annual Review of project
performance (to occur no later than April 30 of each year), an annual sector performance report,
to be prepared by CNEEP, on the progress made in the implementation of the Project and the



35
national sector strategy. This report would cover, among other things: (i) improvements in the
quality of health services (particularly family planning, maternal and child health, immunization,
STD/AIDS, and strengthening of the patient referral system); (ii) progress in strengthening and
decentralizing sector management and administration; (iii) increase in participation in various
health activities of the private and public sector contributors to, and beneficiaries of, the health
services; and (iv) in the years 1997 and 1999 an assessment of the impact of services provided
under the Project by the beneficiaries. And based on this performance report, submit to IDA not
later than four weeks after each Annual Review, an action program and budget, acceptable to
IDA, for the further implementation of the Project, including, if appropriate, consequential
amendments to the Project Implementation Manual, and, thereafter, implement such action
program (paras. 4.5 and 4.25);
(c) submit to IDA, by September 30, 1996, a time based action plan, acceptable to IDA, for
regulatory reform of the pharmaceutical subsector (para. 3.29);
(d) submit to IDA, by June 30, 1997, an estimate of costs of hospital care and the Government's
proposal for contribution to these costs by the beneficiaries (para. 3.27);
(e) prepare by December 31, 1996, draft texts, acceptable to IDA, establishing medical treatment
guidelines, norms, standards and protocols for its health facilities and adopt a plan and timetable,
satisfactory to IDA, for their application nationwide (para. 3.7);
(f) carry out jointly with IDA not earlier than 34 months and not later than 38 months after the
Effective Date a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying out the Project (para. 4.9);
(g) submit to IDA quarterly reports on management of cash and stocks, and annual audit reports on
the Centrale d'Achat accounts as a means of monitoring the financial health of this entity (para.
3.29);
(h) deposit into the Project Account in each year during the implementation of the Project, an amount
or amounts equivalent to the following aggregates: (i) CFAF 349 million for the second year after
the Effective Date; (ii) CFAF 200 million for the third year after the Effective Date; (iii) CFAF
296 million for the fourth year after the Effective Date; (iv) CFAF 237 million for the fifth year
after the Effective Date, or other amount or amounts as IDA may specify during the Annual
Review and as being required for the purposes of the Project (para. 4.22); and
(i) adopt by December 31, 1995, a budgeting and costing system, acceptable to IDA, for all levels
of the health system for the delivery of health services (para. 4.22).
6.2    As conditions of credit effectiveness, the Government will:
(a) open a Project Account and deposit an initial amount of CFAF 216 million (para. 4.22);
(b) submit to IDA a National Population Policy, acceptable to IDA, as adopted by the Council of
Ministers (para. 3.3);
(c) adopt a Project Implementation Manual satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.1);
(d) appoint consultants to assist in the introduction of a decentralized accounting management and
monitoring system for the Project accounts and to provide related training (para. 4.22);



36
(e) amend Decree No. 90-236 of August 31, 1990, and Arrete No. 688 of February 27, 1989 in
manner acceptable to IDA in order to, among other things, modify the composition of the
membership of the CNEEP and the CDEEP and to clarify their functions (para. 3.35); and
(f) adopt a legal status for the Centrale d'Achat acceptable to the Borrower and the IDA (para. 2.27).
6.3   Recommendation. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 17.9 million (US$27.8 million equivalent) to the Republic of Benin
on standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.



37                               ANNEX I
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
BASIC INDICATORS
Population
Total Population a/                     5.0          million
Population Growth Rate b/               3.2%         per annum
Total Fertility Rate b/                 7.1          children per woman
Education a/
Primary School Enrollment - Total       66%          of relevant age group
Primary School Enrollment - Girls       39%          of relevant age group
Secondary School Enrollment - Total     12%          of relevant age group
Secondary School Enrollment - Girls     7%           of relevant age group
Health c/
Crude Birth Rate (CBR)                  44           live births per thousand pop.
Crude Death Rate (CDR)                  16.1         deaths per thousand pop.
Infant Mortality Rate (IMR)             89           per thousand live births
Life Expectancy at Birth                51           years
Coverage of deliveries d/               38%
Population per National Physician       20.685       persons
Population per Physician (+foreigners)  18.693       persons
Population per Hospital Bed             2.429        persons per bed
Nutritional Status e/
Incidence of Malnutrition - Total       25%          of total population
Incidence of Malnutrition (children)    20 to 40%    of children under 5
Incidence of Anemia                     16 to 75%    of total population
Incidence of Anemia (children)          54%          of children under 6 to 14
Water Supply f/
Access to Safe Water                    49%          of the population
Sources:     a! World Development Report, 1994
b/ Divisional Estimate, 1994
c/ Health Sector Diagnostic Document, Benin, 1994
d/ Poverty Assessment, 1994
e/ Study on Malnutrition, Benin, 1984
f/ Estimate of the Water Works Department, Benin, 1992






38                           ANNEX 2
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
MAJOR CAUSES OF MORBIDrTY AND MORTALITY
AMONG THE GENERAL POPULATION
The health situation in the Republic of Benin is characterized by a high rate of morbidity
and mortality. Average life expectancy at birth was 51 years in 1991. The crude mortality rate
was 16.1 per 1,000, infant mortality rate was 89 per 1,000 live births and under-five mortality rate
was 149 per 1,000 live births. The major causes of morbidity and mortality are tropical diseases,
with a predominance of endemic of epidemic diseases (40% of the total). Malaria is the
predominant infection, accounting for 27.1% of notified diseases. Diarrheas and gastroenteritis
due to feco-oral transmission and poor hygiene are the second largest group of pathologies,
followed by acute respiratory infections (14% of reported cases). Traumas of various types and
anemia are the fourth and fifth most important causes of morbidity, respectively.
Malaria. The annual incidence rate of malaria in the general population is 57 per 1,000. It is 196
per 1,000 among infants, 89 per 1,000 among children aged between I and 4 years, and 45 per
1,000 among those aged 5 years. For cerebral malaria, the average annual incidence rate is 0.9 per
1,000 in the general population, 6 per 1,000 among infants, 2 per 1,000 among children aged
between I and 4 years and 0.5 per 1,000 among children aged 5 years. There are no major
differences in malaria incidence between departments in the northern areas (Borgou and Atacora)
and those in the southern areas (Atlantic and Oueme).
Diarrheal diseases. These are most common in children under 5 years of age. A national
household survey conducted in 1992 showed that 13% of deaths in this age group were related to
episodes of diarrhea.
Acute respiratory infections. These include broncho-pulmonary and upper respiratory tract
infections. They are predominantly seen in young children. Average annual incidence rate is 30.1
per 1,000 population, 154.3 per 1,000 among infants, 56.5% per 1,000 among children aged
between I and 4 years and 19.2 among children older than 5 years.
Traumas. In 1992, traumas accounted for 6.33% of notified morbidities for all ages, including
hospitalized and non-hospitalized cases. Average annual incidence rate is 13.7 per 1,000, with
little variation among age groups. There were no major differences between departments, apart
form Oueme, with 22.66 per 1,000 almost twice the national average.
Diseases targeted by the Expanded Program on Imnunization (EPI). These are measles,
poliomyelitis, tetanus diphtheria, pertussis and tuberculosis, with the addition of meningitis. The
number of reported cases declined markedly from 13,413 tin 1985 to 3,049 in 1992, despite an
improvement in the notification of diseases. This decline was as a result of improved vaccination
coverage during the same period, from 10% to almost 70%. While these results are encouraging
results, the epidemiological surveillance systemn requires improvement through the adoption of
standardized case definitions within the initiatives to eradicate poliomyelitis and tetanus and to
reduce the incidence of measles.



39                         ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
Malnutrition. Several nutrition studies show that 25% of Benin's population is malnourished and
that children and mothers are generally more severely affected. Estimates suggest that between
20% and 40% of children under five suffer from some degree of malnutrition and 3 to 6% are
severely malnourished. These rates are high compared to those of countries with similar socio-
economic and geographical features. Signs of vitamin A deficiency are present among the general
population in the northem part of the country, but more recently similar deficiencies have been
identified among school children in Cotonou. Iodine deficiency is known to be endemic in a
number of areas of the country. Although symptoms of iron deficiency are very common among
pregnant women and low birth weights are frequent, there are no reliable national-level data on
which to base strategies and programs for nutrition interventions.
Anemia: These constituted 5.07% of notified diseases in 1992, all age groups included. The
average annual incidence is 11.1 per 1,000 and highest among infants, 38.66 per 1,000.
Water and sanitation: About 50% of the population have access to potable water. In the rural
areas, the sources of potable water are inadequate: 30% of the pumps installed are out of service
and people resort to the use of surface water. About half of the population uses water from wells;
bacteriological analysis revealed fecal pollution of about 75% of these wells. In general, little has
been improved in improving sanitation. The annual national production of solid wastes is about
230,000 tons, about 65% of these from urban centers. While there are collection systems, the
proportion of wastes collected is less than 23%. Industrial waste disposal is an urban problem,
principally in Cotonou. There is a lack of an effective national program on sanitation.
Acquired Immune-Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS): Since 1986, the number of reported AIDS cases
has increased from none to a total of 465. The male:female ratio has declined from about 3:1
between 1985-89 to about 2:1 in 1990-92, indicating a relative increase in the number of reported
cases among females. The age group most affected includes young adults (20-39 years), who
represent 60% of all cases. The predominant mode of transmission is heterosexual (79%/O) but there
is an increasing number of vertical transmissions from mothers to neonates. A sentinel surveillance
system began in 1990, focusing on pregnant women, clients of STD clinics, tuberculosis patients
and blood donors, in the departments of Oueme, Atlantic, Borgou and Atacora.
Tuberculosis: Tuberculosis is a public health problem in Benin. It affects the most productive
segment of the population, aged 20 to 50 years, and it is the most significant opportunistic infection
among AIDS sufferers.



40
REPUBLIC OF BENIN                                          ANNEX 3
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT                                       Page 1 of 1
CURRENT STRUCTURE OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Ministry of Health (MOH)
Administrative    Administration      Health Facilities       Intersectoral         Commnunity
Division/                            (pyramid of           Coordination         Participation
Level        Subdivision                              services)
National          Central Ministry    National University  National Committee
of Health         Hospital Center        for the Monitoring
Central                                                                   and Evaluation of
Program
Implementation
I_CNEEP)
Intermediate    Department       Departmental       Departmental          Departmental
Bureau of MOH    Hospital Center         Committee for the
(DDS)                                    Monitoring and
Evaluation of
Program
Implementation
(CDEEP)              _
Peripheral    Sub-prefecture                        Sub-prefectoral                             Sub-prefecture
or Urban                             Health Centers                              Management
Circumscription                      (CSSP) and Urban                            Committee
Circumscription                             (COGES)
Health Centers
(CSCU)-certified
and non certified
Commune                              Communal Health                             Communal
Centers (CCS)                               Management
Committee
(COGEC)
Village or City                      Village Health Posts
Quarter






4 1
REPUBLIC OF BENIN                                            ANNEX 4
HEALTH AM) POPULATION PROJECT                                             Page 1 of 1
EST'IMATES OF ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL
BY LEVEL AiND BY CATEGORY
SIMULA71CN DES 8ESC INS EiN AGEN7S CE SANTE. OPT7CN SASSE
IATA  C'CR jATL  ANTI'BOR  GOU IMON 0    COUE  ME  IZOU                 IPAYS
~CORPS                    THE IE~ ETHE IR.E  iTNE!  RE! ITHE [RE! IThE IRE!  THE  IRE! ThE IRE! ~OI FF.1
M%EC :;31E.RAL1S7=3        20    17  -j3    3C                  15   -,      3133    24    20   I77  180    -3  
iC. iP'.RG;EN               3          4      1I5j2             3     1     6I3         5                 1's 1   15
IG'NEO::_LCGUE              4  1 3   I 1      a    4      2 Z               6         1 5     5     -32   24    9 
~IA 7:RE               I                    C                 3           6    .3     4     2    2955
7'4i:iMIER                  4    '!2   2C      3   '7      a   97 1 Cg   187  169 I 156            ;6 I5 1
.1i: NS7RUMEN7iS7'E  I             6 ,6            5i          6     33  I 5                     '3 9   336j
INFsN ESi7ri S iS 7 E      7 1 2                 3  !C   o    I                 73 11             8   H5   3 
71    5   I ~67 i 11   3 7             3Z S  9    93   79   96      536  -O ~861
SLP iASCR.      7          ZS    2~5    3                 1           3 I  7  13    i6 Ij  j:J
-ASCR. B&C         19   13 49    17    4    19    16           a    ZS 25             I    '5   137   18
i7=m-rt S~~ RX           T3            1 6     1                3 I    7  1       a      a          47 136
7::,iSUjP S7A7        Ti.]          5     4      ii                                        __ _         __
A~~~CS~~b3NAN7 ~~~~190   i 7   23     5725   501  93              231    69           f-  'Z37  451 3
'ACMINIS7RA71FS            16    2   99    82    2 7    1 0        13 5   31    1 2    31212  r8 I1I33  105-
ACMINLS7~ATEU                       1 9    I15 i6     2  1 4  J1126F2                           46   24   ZZ 
lliNG!NE~.%ERS           jO       ]           7    3J    0     0      0     0         I 1  [i       3    8 
17;--'H 3jP7PI                F 10    9       1     1I          0     1  I        1    I 1    5 T12       3
20    1    4      25   7"     7    17    3    23-    3             3   IT 4416       8
lCUV!PJS 3S                       3    11     9     -~4         3     0  F        i      3     4    31 T25    5
IAGE!N7S OEN!TRE iN        101 I sj127 1  70 1110I 51    a2~  a   1 14138 K 071 33 641  259 3821
1707AUX                    SU 38i5.L1 1135  951  hi 18 393 907  237 I810I474   725j 396 -543  807I :..'6~






42
REPUBLIC OF BENIN                                ANNEX 5
HEALTH AND POPUL-ATION PROJECT                            Page 1 of 1
NIOH'S EVOLUTION BUDGET
(current prices)
Years   National   MOH's   of which Salaries  of which recurrent    Health    Share of Health
Budget    budget       (billions)    expenses (billions)   Exppmses     Budget!
of CFA                                                       per         National
(billions)                                               inhabitant    Budget (%)
(CFA)
%     billions    %     billions
1984      55.9       3.2       75       2.4      25       0.8        934           5.7
1985      50.8       3.1       74       2.2      26       0.8        757           5.0
1986      45.2       3.1       77      2.4       23       0.7        773           6.9
1987      45.9       4.0       70       2.8      30       1.3        997           8.8
1988      53.6       3.2       69       2.2      31       1.0        788           6.0
1989      49.5       2.4       79       1.9      21       0.         600           4.9
1990      67.6       2.5       76       1.9      24       0.6        523           3.7
1991      81.4       2.7       74       2.0      26       0.7        561           3.4
1992      85.4       2.7       70       1.9      30       0.8        566           3.2
1993      84.3       2.9       66       1.9      34       0.9        569           3.4
1994      107.0      3.9       62       2.4      38       1.5        741           3.6
1995     108.0       4.2       62       2.6      38       1.6        773           3.9
PUBLIC BUDGET FOR HEALTH: ALLOCATION AND EXPENDITURES 94-95
(in billions of CFA)
1994       Expenditures     1995
Budget     as % of Budget   Budget
Total Current Budget                     107.0                       108.0
MOH Current Budget                        3.9          97%            4.2
of which for: personnel                  (2.4)        101%           (2.6)
non salary                   (1.5)         91%            (1.6)
As % of total current budget              3.6%                         3.9%
Other budget allocations for the health   4.3          29%            4.4
("charges non r6parties)
Total Budget for Health                    8.2         65%             8.6
as % of total current budget             7.7                         8.0%
Salaries as % of MOH current budget      62                          62%
Salaries as % of total current budget
allocated for health                    29                          30%
AF4
M\4PHEXCH\BENIN.DOC






43                         ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
EVOLUTION OF HEALTH SECTOR FINANCING
I.    Context for Health Sector Financing
Benin's health service delivery system is complex and comprises several sub-
systems, including the following:
-  public sector health services, comprising services offered by the Ministry of Health
and those of the armed forces for eligible persons;
-  parapublic services, essentially CNPS and certain state enterprises;
-   private care, including private enterprises, private physicians (located for the most
part in Cotonou), and the not-for-profit/confessional hospitals and health centers,
and
-  traditional healers.
All of these sub-systems use different methods for financing health services; until recently,
only the public sector health services did not require some kind of formal patient payment.
Introduction of cost recovery was made imperative by Benin's economic crisis during the
latter 80's, but it has occurred without a broader examination of various co-financing
strategies.
Economic context
Over the past ten years, Benin' s economy has undergone profound change. From
1984-1989, the economy grew at about 1.25% per year (compared with population
growth of about 3% per year); per capita income declined by more than 10% in absolute
terms. Since 1990, the economy has grown at about 6% per year.
The Ministry of Health's budget, like those of other ministries, was cut
substantially beginning in 1987, dropping from 8-9% of the national budget to 3-4% in the
early nineties. While there have been small increases since, MOH's budget is far from
reaching its former (budgeted) levels.
Sector financing
At the same time that Government's contribution to public sector health services
has declined, cost recovery and external donor assistance have dramatically increased.
While there have been attempts to define the roles and responsibilities of the various
sources of financing, the discussion has been complicated by a lack of data. While the
information available is far from complete, this report indicates the overall picture,
focusing on the government's budget, internal cost-recovery and external donor support.



44                           ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 5
II.    Government Financing
Government financing of public health services in Benin shares a number of
characteristics with neighboring countries, including:
- a centralized budget preparation process which ultimately precludes participation
and negotiation;
- limited possibilities (given the weight of salary costs) to reallocate resources; and
- delayed and/or reduced authorization to spend which, combined with the usual
administrative delays associated with the procurement of goods and services,
effectively reduces the actual amounts spent in a given years.
To these problems, Benin has added an additional obstacle to the analysis by
establishing two types of investment budgets and three types of operating budgets (for
two of which MOH has no information on actual expenditures).
The "loss" of financial resources to the sector from request to authorization to
actual expenditure is presented in the table below:
Table 1: Budgeted, Authorized and Expended Resources in Health Sector
(in millions of CFAF)
90     91     92      93      94     95      96     97     98    99
Requested   5,147   5,836   7,567   6,002   9,228   8,774   9,490  10,269  11,118  12,043
Authorized  3,652   4,189   5,351   4,530   6,900   7,098   7,676   8,305   8,990  9,736
Spent      3,023   3,459   4,331   3,757   5,457   5,881   6,448   7,073   7,577  8,246
The last line assumes the proportion of expenditures for the period 1995-99
increasing from 80% to 95% as a means for indicating potential gains simply by spending
authorized funds.
III. Community financing
Community financing comprises two principal sources of revenues: taxes which
have traditionally been collected and redistributed locally for a number of community
works (including health infrastructure and salaries) and cost recovery (introduced in
selected health centers beginning in 1988 and generalized since 1990). No systematic
evaluation of community financing has been carried out, but partial information from
several sources provide the information presented in the following table.



45                              ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 5
Table 2: Sources and Amounts of Community Financing of Health Services
(in millions of CFA)
90      91      92       93      94      95       96      97      98      99
Local taxes   136    136      136     136      136     136     136      136     136    136
Cost rec.    1,912   1,989   2,435   2,795   2,823   3,529   3,882   4,270   4,697   5,167
Total     2,048   2,135   2,571    2,931    2,959   3,665   4,018   4,406   4,833   5,303
The rapid growth projected for 1995 anticipates a 25% increase in drugs, which has been
deferred since the devaluation of January 1994 but which will take effect in 1995.
IV.    Donor Financing
External financing of Benin's health sector activities comprises the traditional
multilateral donors, an increasing range of bilateral assistance, and growing support from
(local and international) non governmental organizations. The establishment in 1993 of a
three-year rolling plan process for identifying external health sector financing allows for
certain precision in estimating the availability of financial resources for the health sector.
The following table estimates existing and probable sector financing over the project
period:
Table 3: Donor Financing of the Health Sector by Type of Financing
(in rnillions of CFA)
90      91      92       93      94      95       96      97      98      99
Multilat.                            4,245    7,142   6,926   6,978   4,927   2,714    582
Bilateral                            1,147   2,904    5,468   6,548   5,930   4,757   2,683
NGO                                           312      209     186
Total                              5,392   10,358  12,603   13,718  10,857   7,451   3,265
While the amounts of donor financing are significant, local absorptive capacity remains
low (50% in 1993) resulting in underutilization of external assistance. The three-year
rolling plan takes this factor into account making a distinction between donor funding in
hand (and therefore available) and donor funding actually expended. These results are
presented in the following table:
Table 4 Available and Expended Donor Financing (absorptive capacity)
90      91      92      93       94      95      96       97     98      99
Available    6,111   10,352  11,339  10,655   15,230  10,177   4,734
Expended     3,577   5,236   5,499   5,328
%             59       51      48      S0
expended
IV.    Conclusions
The table on the next page summarizes the results presented here so as to indicate the
funding gap.



REPUBLIQUE DU BENIN             ESTIMATION DES COUTS, FINANCEMENTS ET GAP DE FtNANCEMENT
SECTEUR SANTE                                            (In Million of CFA)
1. COUT ESTIMATF DES BESOINS                 11 268   16 188   18 906   16 657   21 458   47 204   30 612   38 754   26 291   35475
1.1. BUDGET DE L'ETAT                         5147      5 835     7 657    6 002     9 225     8 774    9 490    10 269    1118S   12 043
1.1.1. Invesss,ments                            140      233       183       215      219       274      286 -     2998      313       327
f.1. 2. Fonc'Jonnement                        5007      6 602     7384     5 787     9 009    8 500     9 204     9 970    10 80    11 716
1.2. BESOINS ADDITIONNELS    _      _1                 10 352    11339    10 656    12 230    38 430    21122    28485    15*73    23 432
1.2.1. Besolw non solliclt6s, non finances          _______                                                                            .
1.2.2. Besoins soliclts, non financ6s __          _=_                          _                  _    __     __ __   _____
1 .2.2.1.PQD (*PTD)           __      =       6111    10 352    11 339    10655    1223       37707    20 873    28253    15061    2332
1.2.2.2. Axes de reforme hors PQD                   .               .723                                  249       232      112       112
2. FINANCMENT __                          _._                ____ _   .____
__1                    __TRN  ___.__ ___._ _.__  ______                                       __              __ __._             _
I.1 INTERNE
2.1.1. Ddpenses du Budget de I'Eta     __     3 02      3 469      4331    3 757     5 457     5881     6 448     7 073     7577     824C
2.i.1.1. Irnvestissement                         54       100       85        85        90       93        97       101       105      110
2.1.1,2. Fonctionnement                        2 99     3 359     4 246    3 672     5 367     5788    6 351      B 972     7 472     8 136
2.1.2. Recettes du financement communauitaire  2 048    2 12S    2 571     2 931     2 959     3 665_ _ 4 018 -  4 406  _4_84 833    5 _3.03
2.1.2.1. Collectiviles losales                  136 __    136      136 -_  136           _3 _   136        36  _   136         36       36
2.1.2.2. Recouvrement des coOus-               1 912    1 989     2 435    2 795     2 823     3 529     3 882    4 270     4 697     5 167
__ _X                        _____                            ______r
2.2.1. FInancements acquis
2.2.1.1.PTD(montantsacquis)                    6111    10352    11339    10655    12230        7977      4334 _______
2.2. i.1. PTD (montants dJpensds)              3 577    5 236     5 499     5 328    6 115     4 786     3 034 _. _               _
2.2.1.2. Appui budg4taire (acuis_)    =.  _ _    3 000                                         2 200      400       400  .
2.2.1.2. Appui budgdtaire (d6pens6s)                                                 3 000 _         _
3. GAP DE FINANCEMENT                                                                                                                         X
_  _ _. _ _  ._ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     .....................................  252    _ _ __            15__ _.I _   ____ _        _    
31.THEORIQUE                                             ____ __t_  6                         27481  _    _1412    26875    13881 _21 926
j3.2. REEL                                     2 610      36      65O       4641      392      32 872    17 113    27 275    13 881    21926



47                         ANNEX6
Page 5 of 5
Estimated costs
Line 1. estimates needs as expressed by health sector personnel assuming no significant
changes in Government policy.
Line 1.2 estimates additional needs which have not been taken into account by health
sector personnel. Line 1.2.1 (for which no data exist) represents all of those real costs
which are already budgeted, always underestimated, and never financed (such as
amortization of buildings and equipment; losses, breakage and theft; etc.). Line 1.2.2
estimates those costs associated with the proposed reforms as well as those linked to
program improvement and expansion.
Available financing
Line 2. 1.1 calculates the Government's contribution to sector financing based on actual
expenditures for 1990-93 and projected expenditures for the period 1994-99.
Line 2.1.2 estimates the evolution of community financing assuming no growth in local
tax contributions but sharp growth in cost recovery resulting from increased utilization of
health services and from improved accounting procedures.
Line2.2 estimates on the basis of the results of the last four three-year rolling plans (for
1991-93 through 1994-96) the evolution of external financing and local absorption of that
financing.
Financing Gap
Line 3.1 estimates the theoretical financing gap between estimated needs (Line 1) and
available financing (Lines 2.1.1, 2.1.2 and 2.2.1. 1).
Line 3.2 estimates the real financing gap between estimated needs (Line 1) and expended
financing (Lines 2.1.1, 2.2.2 and 2.2.1.2).
IDA's contribution to the health sector through the Health and Population Project would
reduce the theoretical funding gap substantially.






48                               ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
IDA'S SUPPORT TO BENIN'S
NATIONAL PLAN OF ACTION FOR FOOD AND NURITION
Background
To improve the efficiency and effectiveness with which the numerous nutrition activities
have been carried out, a National Committee for Food and Nutrition (Comitt Nationalpour I 'Alimentation
et la Nutrition -- CNAN) was created by Decree No. 94-103 of April 12, 1994, which sets up a much
needed institutional framework for the coordination of food and nutrition activities in Benin. The officers
of the CNAN include: the Minister of Rural Development (Chair), the Minister of Health (vice-Chair),
the Director of Food and Applied Nutrition (DANA) of the Ministry of Rural Health (Secretary), and the
Director of Prevention and Health Promotion, Ministry of Health (Rapporteur). Members include
representatives of other (central and line) ministries and other national partners, such as the university,
research institutions, chambers of commerce and of agriculture, consumer associations and NGOs. The
purpose of this committee is to coordinate and to encourage and manage the complementarities of the
interventions of its numerous and varied members in order to achieve Benin's objectives to reduce
malnutrition and to increase the food security of its population.
On December 27-28, 1994, a workshop was held in Cotonou to inaugurate the CNAN and to
adopt a national plan of action for food and nutrition (Plan d 'action national pour I 'alimentation et la
nutrition - PANAN). This plan of action had been developed and reviewed by members of the CNAN
over a series of work sessions and workshops and thus reflects the spectrum of experiences and
perspectives of the group, including the university, NGOs, research institutions, as well as the various
planners and implementors in the participating ministries. The inauguration of the CNAN and the
development and adoption of a plan of action are very significant and long overdue actions. The
Government has now put into place both an organizational and a strategic framework within which all
food security and nutrition activities would be coordinated. It is important that the Bank's efforts in this
area are fully cognizant and supportive of this framework. This annex presents a brief overview of
Benin's PANAN and describes how the IDA-financed Food Security Project and the proposed Health and
Population project support its implementation.
National Plan of Action for Food and Nutrition (PANAN)
The three main objectives of the PNAN are: (1) to guarantee to all citizens a constant, reliable
diet that is healthy and nutritious; (2) to provide all citizens with the possibility to achieve and maintain
good health and nutritional wellbeing; and (3) to strive for a socially sustainable development, which
would not threaten the environment, as a means of improving the health and nutritional status of the
population. The PANAN sets out a series of indicators to monitor progress in implementing these
objectives, grouped into the following categories: food shortages, household food security,
malnutrition/infectious disease links, micronutrient deficiencies, chronic disease, food security,
population's capacity to combat threats to nutritional health and food security, and living conditions.
Nine strategies (and over 80 activities) are identified in the plan as a means of achieving these
objectives. The strategies call for:



49                                 ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 4
(1)   integration of nutrition objectives into development policies and programs;
(2)   improvement of household food security, including:
(a)    development of the rural sector;
(b)   improvement of household access to food products;
(3)    evaluation, analysis and surveillance of nutritional status;
(4)   improvement of the quality and healthy properties of food, including:
(a)   legal mesures to assure quality;
(b)    development of quality control mechanisms;
(c)    sensitization of producers, wholesalers and consumers;
(5)    prevention and treatment of infectious and parasitic disease;
(6)    promotion of breastfeeding;
(7)   targetting of groups who are socioeconomically disadvantaged and/or who are vulnerable
with regard to their nutrition status;
(8)    prevention of micronutrient deficiencies; and
(9)    promotion of appropriate diets and healthy life styles.
The Food Security project and the proposed Health and Population project are complementary
in that they are building the capacities of different institutions and agencies -- centralized and
decentralized -- to enable them to fulfill their respective mandates in carrying out the PANAN. The Food
Security project focuses on strengthening the capacities of: the Ministry of Rural Development
(particularly DANA), various NGOs and communities. The proposed Health and Population project is
strengthening the capacity of the MOH (particularly the Nutrition Service of the newly established
Directorate for Family Health) and relevant health services; and it will maximize its contribution by also
working through organs within the Ministry for intersectoral coordination (CNEEP/CDEEP) and
community participation (COGES/COGEC). Each project intervention is described below, followed by
a brief description of areas for collaboration between these two projects.
Food Security Project
This project is assisting the Government to improve the food security and nutrition standards of
about 20 sub-prefectures. Covering all nine strategies of the PANAN, it aims at (a) improving the
income base of those groups through new income generating opportunities and regular access to food in
the more risky areas through simple agricultural, commercial, fisheries, peri-urban and socio-economic
activities; (b) reducing malnutrition rates with particular focus on children under five years and pregnant
and lactating women; and (c) strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Rural Development in food
security planning, monitoring and evaluation.
Within the limits of identified local implementation capabilities, the proposed project would
extend and develop the approach and the activities initiated during the pilot phase. It would support



50                                ANN 7
Page 3 of 4
target groups in preparing, implementing and managing activities aimed at improving their food security
and nutriton situation. The approach would build on specific constraints, aiming at their solution through
the empowerment of local communities with particular emphasis on women's groups, who are key actors
in the implementation of food security strategies. Activities would comprise: (a) community support for
local development initiatives, including (i) income generating activities benefitting rural groups for small
agricultural projects and livestock raising techniques, food processing, small trading and marketing; (ii)
small constructions and other rural works of a productive nature such as local storage and conservation
facilities, bottom-land development, watershed management or tree nurseries; and (iii) improvement of
small infrastructure with direct local participation, improvement of village access and feeder roads, anti-
erosion works, livestock watering points, and rehabilitation of market infrastructure; (b) nutrition
activities for the improvement of the nutritional status of women and children in the target populations,
thorugh education, growth monitoring, supplementary feeding and referral to health rehabilitation centers
when required; and (c) institution building and coordination of field activities, including (i) strengthening
of the food security planning and monitoring capacity, updating of the data base on vulnerable populations
and information systems; and (ii) implementation and monitoring of field interventions.
Proposed Health and Population Project
One objective of this project is to render the MOH capable of effectively contributing to the
implementation of selected strategies and the achievement of national nutrition objectives as laid out in
the CNAN and the PANAN. An important outcome of the recent reorganization of the MOH has been
the creation of a new Directorate of Family Health, within which a new service in charge of nutrition has
been established. The project will strengthen the capacity of this nutrition service, both at the central and
departmental levels, to enable it to serve effectively as the focal point of MOH's contribution to the
PANAN. And it will strengthen capacity of service providers to play their role in the prevention and
treatment of malnutrition and in the promotion of improved nutrition status.  Specific project
interventions, described in paras. 3.11 and 3.12 of this report, will support: (a) the proposed national
malnutrition prevalence study to strengthen the basis for program planning, resource allocation and
program evaluation; (b) the development of a sentinel surveillance system to monitor trends in the
magnitude of deficiencies in priority population groups; (c) strengthening of service provider capacity in
the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of malnutrition; and (d) strengthening of promotional activities
to increase public awareness of nutrition problems and to encourage behavior change to prevent them.
Areas for Collaboration between the Two IDA Interventions
The following have been identified as opportunities for coordination and collaboration between
the two IDA-financed projects. These opportunities will be pursued during the course of implementation
of both of these operations.
(a)    establishment of mechanisms of coordination and collaboration between the health
facilities (to be strengthened under the Health and Population project) and the community
nutrition workers (CNW) (to be created under the Food Security project) in the areas of:
effective referral and treatment of severely malnourished patients; development and
delivery of information, education and communication messages for improving nutritional
status.
(b)    coordination and sharing of information on nutrition surveillance and monitoring and
evaluation of nutrition activities.



51                                ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
(c)    effective use, particularly at the field level, of already established health sector
mechanisms for intersectoral coordination (CNEEP/CDEEP) and for community
participation (COGES/COGEC), which also accommodate the involvement of other key
partners (NGOs, research institutions, other key sectors, the university).



52                         ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
The Minister of Finance
to:
The President of the International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
USA
Subject: National Health Strategy Letter (1995-1999)
Mr. President,
1.   In the context of the implementation of the Health and Population Project, I
am pleased to present, on behalf of the Government of Benin, the National Health
Strategy Letter.
2.    A hot and humid country in West Africa, the Republic of Benin has a total
area of 112.622 km2. The 1992 population census estimated the population size at
4,915,555 inhabitants in a country in which the health situation is characterized by a
varied tropical pathology with a predominance of communicable and parasitic
diseases.
3.   In the framework of developing its health sector, the Republic of Benin
implemented, from 1989-1993, a health strategy which placed priority on:
(a)   preventive activities (vaccinations, maternal and child health, family
planning, hygiene and sanitation, information, education, and
communication, etc.);
(b)   curative activities with the establishment of a pharmaceutical policy for
essential generic drugs;
(c)   rehabilitation/construction of health facilities;
(d)   prevention and control of sexually-transmitted diseases (STDs) and
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS).
4.    The action program, which was developed and implemented during this period,
enabled the following to be accomplished:



53                           ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 8
(a)   the restructuring of the Ministry of Health including the creation of
three new directorates at the central level (Directorate of Planning,
Coordination and Evaluation, Directorate of Administrative and
Financial Services, and Directorate of Family Health); and their
corresponding services at the Departmental Health Directorate (DDS)
level;
(b)   the development and implementation of a pharmaceutical policy
including a master plan and a priority action plan, marked by the
creation and operation of the Central Procurement Agency for essential
drugs (Centrale d'Achat des medicaments essentiels) through which
essential drugs are always available at an affordable price, and at all
levels of the health pyramid;
(c)   the expansion, nationwide, of the community financing/cost recovery
system and the creation of the commune and prefectoral-level
management committees (COGEC and COGES), through which the
communities manage the funds generated through cost recovery and
participate in the planning, execution and evaluation of the activities
carried out by the health facilities;
(d)   the establishment of important planning and management tools (Three-
year Development Plan, Health Facility Mapping, National Health
Information and Management System, Computerized Personnel
Management System);
(e)  the establishment of mechanisms to bring about and facilitate the
participation of various partners in the planning, coordination and
evaluation of sector activities (Comite National de Suivi de I'Execution
et d 'Evaluation des Programmes du secteur sante [CNEEPJ and Comite
Departemental de Suivi de l'Execution et d'Evaluation des Programmes
du secteur sante [CDEEP]);
(f)  the establishment of programs for maternal and child health/family
planning/nutrition and an early warning system for detecting high risk
pregnancies for promoting safe motherhood;
(g)   the improvement in vaccination coverage (from 10% to more than
70%), which allowed the Republic of Benin to win the WHO Comlan
Alfred Quenum Prize in 1992 and brought about the considerable
reduction in targeted illnesses of the Expanded Program of
Immunization; and
(h)   the intensification of the prevention and control of malaria, diarrhea,
STDs and AIDS.
5.    Despite these notable improvements, there are persisting problems which
obstruct the proper functioning of the health system. Some of these are:



54                             ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 8
(a)   the still inadequate reception of patients at health facilities and low
accessibility and quality of the services;
(b)   insufficient skills and a weak system for management and financial
control;
(c)   inadequacies in sector organization and management;
(d)   the under-financing of the sector by intervening parties;
(e)    a mismatch between the demographic growth and the economic growth
of the country;
(f)   the poor functioning of the referral system;
(g)   the still timid nature of community participation;
(h)   the low usage in the sector of the tools and mechanisms for planning,
monitoring, evaluation, coordination, and sector dialogue; and
(i)   the inadequate human resources in light of sector needs.
6.    In order to efficiently face such a worrying situation, and to rise to the
challenge of Health for All by the year 2000, the Republic of Benin, in compliance
with the conclusions of the Health Sector Round Table, which took place in Cotonou
on January 12 and 13, 1995, has embarked on a new National Health Strategy for the
period 1995-1999. The principal reform measures encapsulated in this strategy are
the following:
(a)   Improving the quality, efficiency, and coverage of services by: the
streamlining and strengthening of the referral system, the strengthening
of priority programs and services and the consolidation of successes in
the area of essential drugs supply, with a view to improving, at all
levels of the system, the quality, cost-effectiveness, accessibility and
affordability of basic health services;
(b)   Improving the organization, management and administration in the
sector by: the consolidation and decentralization of the organization,
management and administration with a view to making the sector more
efficient and more operational, with particular attention to the
strengthening of the planning, coordination, mobilization and
management of sector resources, including personnel, materials, and
finances, as well as the progressive establishment of health districts
(zones sanitaires); and
(c)    Strengthening of the partnerships by: the expansion and strengthening
of the partnerships in health (intersectoral coordination, community
participation, integration of private sector activities) with a view to



55                             ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 8
achieving an optimal contribution of the different actors in sector
management and delivery.
7.    These measures will be, for the most part, developed in a document, which
will be adopted by the CNEEP before December 31, 1995. The guiding principles
which will support these measures are the following:
(a)   take into account the economic and institutional successes in order to
reduce the systemic constraints;
(b)   take into account the real needs expressed by the populations in the
sector planning and management systems;
(c)   establish monitoring and evaluation indicators in order to assess sector
performance regularly in conjunction with the beneficiaries;
(d)   guarantee access to quality services to the entire population;
(e)    make available quality, low cost essential drugs to the population;
(f)   streamline the health system, including the referral services, from the
periphery to the central level, by developing health districts, reinforcing
decentralization, and improving resource management, and by bringing
the private, non-profit health sector together with the public health
system;
(g)   integrate progressively the different health services and programs at the
health district and CCS levels, based on the primary health care
approach;
(h)   harmonize the self-financing procedures at each level of the health
pyramid, with a view to ensuring equality and equity;
(i)   strengthen community participation in management and decision making
at the health facility level;
(j)   strengthen the intra- and intersectoral collaboration as well as the
coordination of the interventions of the various partners active in the
sector.
8.    The principle actions that the Republic of Benin intends to take in the context
of implementing this strategy are the following:
(a)   With regard to improving the quality, efficiency, and coverage of
services, the Republic of Benin will:
(1)   strengthen referral services by:



56                             ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 8
(i)          redefining the physical and technical norms and
standards for each service level;
(ii)         adapting the roles and functions of the different
structures of the health pyramid in the context of
decentralization and the gradual establishment of
the health districts;
(iii)        elaborating the norms and care practices at each
level of the health pyramid before January 1,
1997;
(iv)         establishing a therapeutic referral protocol
between the patient care levels;
(v)          continuing the rehabilitation program of health
facilities;
(vi)         establishing two health districts per department
during the first phase including: the establishment
of the support unit for the development of the
districts before September 1995; the evaluation of
phase one health districts, the results of which
will determine the future actions for establishing
other health districts; and inventory of district
hospitals with a view to strengthening their
technical capacity and their materials;
(vii)        undertaking the study on the quality of services
and hospital management.
(2)   support the priority health programs and services by:
(i)          executing the minimum package of services,
which encompasses preventive, promotional, and
curative activities, including the development of
three action plans for implementation of the health
components of:
-   the national population policy, which will
be approved by the Council of Ministers
before November 30, 1995;
-   the national nutrition action plan; and
-   the public hygiene code (Law No. 87-015
of September 21, 1987)
(ii)         organizing knowledge, aptitude and practice
(KAP) surveys/operational research/



57                            ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 8
epidemiological studies to better determine and
respond to the health problems;
(iii)       evaluating the impact of the Information,
Education and Communication (IEC) program on
the various segments of the population and
preparing an action plan to improve the efficiency
of the impact of these activities.
(3)   strengthen the essential generic drug program by:
(i)          adopting, before September 30, 1995, the
permanent statutes of the Centrale d'Achat taking
into account the following principles:
-    the Centrale d'Achat must have sufficient
financial and managerial autonomy in
order to allow it to carry out its mandate
in an efficient and effective manner;
-    all partners must be represented in the
Centrale d'Achat, most notably, the
Government, communities and other
partners in health sector development;
(ii)         preparing a regulatory reform plan for the
pharmaceutical sub-sector before September 30,
1996;
(iii)       defining a new price list for essential dnrgs in the
public sector before December 31, 1995.
(b)   With regard to sector organization, management, and administration,
the Republic of Benin will:
(i)         decentralize the health system right to the very
lowest level (central, intermediary, and district
levels);
(ii)        strengthen sector organization and management by
supporting the Directorate of Administrative and
Financial Services, the Directorate of Planning,
Coordination, and Evaluation, and the Directorate
of Family Health and their corresponding services
at the DDS;
(iii)       strengthen community mobilization by updating,
before December 31, 1995, the texts regulating
these entities, and ensuring training and regular
support to the members and by integrating them



58                             ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 8
more directly into planning, implementation and
evaluation of health activities;
(iv)         revitalize the entities charged with monitoring and
execution of the programs (CNEEP and CDEEP);
(v)          develop human resources by:
-    revising human resource norms for each
level of health services in light of the new
institutional reforms (decentralization and
streamlining the referral system, etc.);
-    preparing the descriptions and profiles for
all posts;
-    establishing an action plan for the
implementation of new standards;
-    recruiting contractual staff in accordance
with appropriate selection procedures;
-    filling key posts in the three new central
directorates and in their corresponding
services at the DDS level by May 30,
1995 at the latest, taking into account the
competencies available;
(vi)         decentralize the responsibilities for recruitment
and management of human resources;
(vii)        assure improved financing of the sector by:
-    undertaking a study in 1995 which clarifies
the real contributive capacity of the
different partners, which will provide the
basis for the definition of a new sector
financing policy;
-    defining in 1996 a budgetary and
accounting system appropriate to the
various levels of the health system;
-    progressively increasing the health sector
share of the national current budget;
(viii)       assure a better utilization of the planning tools
such as the Three-year Development Plan, Health
Facility Mapping, the Technical Cooperation
Program, the National Health Information and
Management System, etc.
(c)   With regard to strengthening partnerships in health, the Republic of
Benin will:



59                           ANNEX 8
Page 8 of 8
(i)         revise, prior to December 31, 1995, the text
regulating the CNEEP, the CDEEP, the COGEZ,
the COGES and the COGEC in order to improve
their efficiency and performance;
(ii)        take into account the services of the private sector
in the organization of the referral system and in
the organization of training, supervision, and
monitoring activities for better health coverage;
and
(iii)       involve the private sector in the coordination,
cooperation and monitoring of sector programs.
9.    During the implementation of this strategy, the Government of the Republic of
Benin envisages undertaking annual reviews of the periodic evaluations. The lessons
learned from this process will allow for constant improvement in performance.
10.  In order to correctly implement this strategy and its medium-term action plan,
the Government of the Republic of Benin solicits the technical and financial support
of the International Development Association in order to implement the Health and
Population Project, which was initiated in order to assist the Government to
implement its health policy.
11.   The above are the general orientations and the strategies defined by the
Government for the implementation of the health policy of the Republic of Benin for
which I solicit the financial support of the International Development Association in
order to implement the Health and Population Project.
Sincerely,



60
ANNEX 9
REPUBLIC OF BENIN                                         Page 1 of 1
HEALTH AND POPUILATION PROJECT
Proposed Structure for the Reformed Health System
Level       Administrative                                Ministry of Health (MOH)
Division/
Subdivision
Administration         Health Facilities (pyramid of    Organizations[ Framework
services)                     for Partnerships (including
intersectoral coordination and
community participation)
Central         National          Central Ministy of     National University Hospital   National Committee for the
Health                 Center                         Monitoring and Evaluation of
(3rd level of referral)        Program Implementation
l________________      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (C N EEP)
Intermediate    Department        Departnental Bureau    Departmental Hospital Centers:   Departmental Committee for the
of MOH (DDS)           (2nd level of referral)        Monitoring and Evaluation of
Program Implementation
(CDEEP)
Peripheral      Sub-prefecture or  Health District (Zone    District Hospitals (hopitaux de   Sub-prefectoral Management
Urban             sanitaire)            zone)                           Committee (COGES)
Circumscription                          (Ist level of referral)
Commune                                  Communal Health Centers        Communal Management
(CCS)                          Committee (COGEC)
(point of entry into the health
_ system)                                   _






ORGANIGRAMME DU MINISTERE
DE LA SANTE
Ministm
CabCaie                                                 M u3 oj
-I~~~~~~~~I
| Abchde          | ecrtarat  |SceAuditi|                  ko  ;3
Pmsge -lIdiitatif]  et *controle                                    X O
DSAF]    DPC                            DHAB       DNPS                  DS
OM    _,de CabkM                                   -TTNHU                                              0
e*h,_                                Dlrctlon DSpartementale  CDEEP
O"  _ ---     rAmsWrAme_                       de la Sante         CDE                                         >  
Me .~a. Moo m aie de I
Us: p__sX5 U   an
OM   Cow  memZL_o"  X f.V
COW:        de_ f   su  as_woo
eF  __ de go"






10                                               w~~~~F  0t 
I,    6   of' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jn~~.                     . . ..    ...
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
.. E ..  ...2.  .       ..                                                     ..
6  0  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                          U~~~~~~~.   . ..  . . ..
1                                                               0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1






63                              ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
CONTRACTUAL STAFF TO BE HIRED UNDER THE PROJECT
1      2      3      4      5      #SE a-.     Bae
____               ______      ~~~~~~~~us$0 A0
I. Health Facilities
A. CSSP
Medecins                                 3    3        3      9         9
Chauffeurs                               8   12       12     16        16
Subtotal A. CSSP                                                    25         75.3
B. Hopitaux de District (4)
Technicien Laboratoire                          8      8       8        8         30.8
Assistant Social                                6      6       6        6         23.1
Administratif/Comptable                         8      8       8        8         30.8
Mtnce/Chauf. /Ouvrier                          12     12      12       12         21.6
Medecin                                         8      8       8        8         74.8
Preparateur en pharmacie                        8      8       8        8         30.8
Subtotal B. Hopitaux de District                                       50        140.6
C. CHD (5)
Technicien cellule de
maintenance
Subtotal C. CHD                                                        10         25.6
Subtotal I. Health Facilities                                          85        241.5
II. Program Administration
A. DDS
Statisticien                       1      1    2       6       6        6
Epidemiologiste                   5       5    6       6       6        6
Documentaliste                    6       6    7       7       7        7
Ingenieur sanitaire               6       6    6       6       6        6
Technicien d'assainissement       6       6    7       7       7        7
Specialiste IEC                   6       6    6       6       6        6
Pharmacien                        6       6    6       6       6        6
Technicien Genie Civil            6       6    6       6       6        6
Technicien de maintenance         14     14   14      14      14       14
Agent d'entretien                 6       6    6       6       6        6
Comptable                        66       6    6       6       6        6
Prepose des sces administratifs   6       6    6       6       6        6
Sage Femme                         -     11   11      13      18       18
Subtotal A. DDS                                                       100        383.6
B. Central, MOH
1. DSAF
Agents                         6       6    6       6       6        6
Agents niveau BAC              2       2    2       2       2        2



64                               ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
.....:-   ..:  .. ::- ... . ':': 'g :;  .:'g: ::':'g: 0 : ........'g' ..   ..   ..  .; .....g0Eg$0 ..   .; . 0 - i:i0 4 0 0 : 0 0 0  ..;  ..;'::  ..   .....   ...   ..:; . .j
Agentsmnveau BEPC                 2      2      2      2        2        2
Agents de transit                 1       1     1       1       1         1
Subtotal                                                               l1l         17.4
2. S. Secteur Pharmaceutique
Statisticien                      1       1    1        1       1         1          6.2
3. PF
Admninistrateur                   7      7      7      7        7        7
Medecin                           3      3     3       3       3         3
Subtotal                                                                10         36.6
4. Paludisme
Secretaire                        1       1    1        1       1         1
Medecin                                   1     1       1       1         1
Chauffeur                                2     2       2       2         2
Subtotal                                                                 4         10.0
5. MST/SIDA
Secretaire                        1       1     1       1       1         1          1
Operateur de saisie               1       1    1        1       1         1          1
Agent de liaison                  1       1     1       1       1         1          1
Chauffeur                         2      2      2      2        2        2           2
Assistantsocial                   I       1     1       1       1         1          1
Subtotal                                                                 7         10.4
6. IEC/EPS
Secretaire                        1       1    1        1       1         1
Dessinateur                                     1       1       1         1
Documenta./gestion stocks                       1       1       1         1
Subtotal                                                                 3          6.5
7. Hygiene et Environnement
(DHA)
Ingenieur sanitaire               1       1    1        1       1         1
Techniciensanitaire               1       1     1       1       1         1
8. DIEM
Ingenieurs Genie Civil           2       2     2       2       2         2
Subtotal B. Central MOH                                                  4         59
Subtotal II. Program admini.                                            40        146.1
III. Project Management                                                         140        529.7
Secretaire                       2       2    2        2       2         0
Chauffeur                         3      3      3      3       3         O
Planton                           1       1    1        1       1
Subtotal III Project Mgt.                                                0           0
Total I - III                                                              225         771.2
of which:
Dcenter       38 (18%)
DDS           94 (43%)
facility based 85 (39%)



65                                                ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
PROJECT SUMMARY COSTS AND FINANCING
S     t Total
(CPAP  00al                      IUS5 'porn          Foreign    Base
Local       ei         TLocal      ocal   ug,'lln  Total xchanlM   Co
I. rnOvtmsnt Costs
A. Genie civil
Construction/Rehabilitation CCS         145,302.3  320,722.5  466,024.6    242.2    534.5    776.7            69         3
Construction/Rehabilitation HD          128,412.0  584,988.0  713,400.0    214.0    975.0  1,189.0            82         4
Construction/Rehabilitation CSSP         31,979.3   92,250.0  124,229.3        53.3    153.8    207.0         74         1
Co"struction/Rehabilitation DDS          37,195.2  169,444.8  206,640.0        62.0    282.4    344.4         82         1
Achevement Ministere Sante               40,298.7  183,582.9  223,881.5        67.2    306.0    373.1         62         1
Prais d architecture                   _   6.608.7   835.537.7  llo  1.5       67.2    1726 13 6371            2         1
Subtotal Genie civil                       389,796.2  1,454,526  1,844,322    649.7  2,424.2  3,073.9            79        11
Materiel et coneomables                  95,919.3  436,965.9  532,885.2    159.9    728.3    888.1            82         3
Equipement medico-technique             186,235.9  848,408.1  1,034,644    310.4  1,414.0  1,724.4            82         6
Equipements                             186,532.6  856,709.1  1,043,242    310.9  1,427.8  1,738.7            82         6
Mobilier de bureau                        9,475.2   41,206.5   50,681.7        15.8      68.7      84.5       81
VehiculI                                179,444.7  817,470.3  996,915.0    299.1  1,362.5  1,661.5            82         6
Medicaments                                      -  73.6L71.6  736.,67i.6         - ,    1 A2.8  227.8A      100  -
Subtotal Dim.                              657, 607.7  3 737, 432  4, 395, 039  1,096.0  6, 229.1  7, 325.1      85        27
C. Etude et recherches                      56,062.7  791,805.1  847,867.7        93.4  1,319.7  1,413.1          93        5
D. Sarvices des exports
Assistance technique internationale   59,899.9  935,741.6  995,641.4           99.8  1,559.6  1,659.4         94         6
Assistance technique locale              14.446.4 .22L626.2j  240.772.5   _24.1           J 37.Q2    _ 41.3    4         1
Subtotal Services dam *zperts               74,346.2  1,162,068  1,236,414    123.9  1,936.8  2,060.7            94         8
S. Formation
formation a 1etranger                  143,635.1  2,225,234  2,369,069    239.7  3,708.7  3,948.4            94        15
Formation locale                        465.658.4  1I .073.2.a25 I, 138       776 11  L  -L.   2.564.8        70        1
Subtotal lPoration                         609.4.   3.298459  3.907.953  l.D15.8  L.497.4  6,513.3               84        24
Total lnm_ nt Costs                            1,787,306 10,444,290 12,231.596  2,978.8 17,407.1 20.386.0             85        76
I1. Recurrent Costs
Fourniture de bureau                       370,636.5            -  370,636.5    617.7          -    617.7          -        2
Deplacement                                312,578.1            -  312,578.1    521.0          -    521.0          -        2
Agents contractuels                        1,593,486            -  1,593,486  2,655.8          -  2,655.8          -       10
Maintenance vehicule                       1,143,855            -  1,143,855  1,906.4          -  1,906.4          -        7
Maintenance batiment /a                     83,618.2            -   83,618.2    139.4                139.4         _        1
Maintenance equipement                     448.040.A    9.24.6A .A9iZ.4A   746-7 7          1     .72.2            2        3
Total tecurront Costs                          3.9S2.215   399.24i ..961.464  6.5 9 .7        .                        2 15.4.  6602.4  -  2
Total 3SUZLr  COSTS                             5,739,521 10 453 539 16 ,193, 060  9,565.9 17, 422.6 26, 988.4         65       100
Physical Contingencies                        358,175.2  844,647.3  1,202,823    597.0  1,407.7  2,0I4.7             70        7
Price Contingencies                           1.a8i.9S6  852,898.6  2 ,664.854  3.019 9  L421.5  4,441.4             12       16
Total PROJRCT COSTS                             7,909,652 12,151,085 20,060,737 13,182.8 20,251.8 33,434.6             61       124
\a Y compris eau. electricite et telephone
Ned May 03 08:28:35 1995



S     t Total
(CPAP *000f                     f(tSS  G000           Foreign    Base
_Lgcal i    YorAion    _TnIal-   Local   Foreian -  2al- llxchan lqeCgosts
A. Deloppcgaet des Services et Progrines do Plsing Familial
1. Protion at iomsion de l politiqus de population
Prog.ll Planification familisle                                                                  252,754.8  416,912.6  669,667.4    421.3    694.9  1,116.1             62         4
2. Services  t coinS  a  utitrs dGe P
Porg. 8. Naternite sans risque                                                                    84,862.8  295,111.4  379,974.2    141.4    491.9    633.3             78         2
Prog. 9 Surveillance de 1'enfant                                                                  69.139.7  246.127.7  315.467.4 _.IILZ  _4A1L.5    52. B               78         2
Subtotal ServiC4S at soizn  an  stier- do PYP                                                        154.002.5  5414 9.1  695.441.7            256.7 __02.A  1      159   2 78        4
Subtotal Dweloppmeat dies Services  t Programes do Planning Familial                                    406,757.3  958,351.7  1,365.109    677.9  1,597.3  2,275.2            70         8
3. juslioration do l quslite at do1 I *fficocite des servicas prioritaire-
1. Naforcam.t do  progres prioritaires
a. Lutte coetre l"s nladies
Prog.lO Nutrition                                                                              67,640.9  263,792.4  331,433.3    112.7    439.7    552.4            80         2
Prog. 12 Paludisise                                                                           150,555.5  297,869.7  448,425.3    250.9    496.4    747.4            66         3
Porg. 17 Tubarculose                                                                          106,141.5   58,357.4  164,498.9    176.9         97.3    274.2        35         1
Prog. 19 MST/SIDA                                                                             315,391.2  412,312.7  727,703.9    525.7    687.2  1,212.8            57         4
Prog. 20 Maladie bucco-dentaire                                                                53.588.9  170.D10.1  223.689.0        B9..3.JS  283.5    372.8       76         1
subtotal Lotte contra lea maladies                                                               693,318.0  1,202,432  1,895,750  1,155.5  2,004.1  3,159.6             63       12
b. Activitos do pramotiona
Dvpt des capacites de mobilisation sociale IZC/ZPS                                            139,641.4  249,335.8  388,977.1    232.7    415.6    648.3            64         2
Hygiene at environnement                                                                      113.,794.0  192462.7  306,.256.7          189.7    320 .510.           63 2. .
Subtotal Activitie   do protions                                                                 253,435.4  441.798.5 _L95233.8    4.22.A        736.3  1.158.7         64        4 
Subtotal Reaforcumut dms progrea prioritsiros                                                       946,753.4  1,644,231  2,590,984  1,577.9  2,740.4  4,318.3             63        16        fl
2. Rooforcement du systems do reference                                                                                                                                                         0O
rog. 2 Rehabilitation/Dvpt des infrastructures sanitaires                                       2.    .      .892.014  3.997.955  1.843.2  4820.0  6.6633               72       25
Subtotal Amlioration do la qualita at do1  a effisccita des servicea prioritairas                       2,052,694  4,536,245  6,588,939  3,421.2  7,560.4 10,981.6            69        41        -l
C. banforcemnt do l gostion at do 1 adinistration du cecteur
1. DOCatralisation
Prog. 26 Renforcefment des capacites de planification/preparation des progrannes                 2,344,056  2,605,962  4,950,018  3,906.8  4,343.3  8,250.0            53        31
2. Renforcent dos capacites de gostioa
Prog. 23 Dvpt des capacites de mobilisation sociale IZC/ZPS                                        7,129.1   82,168.9   89,298.0        11.9    136.9    148.8         92         l
Prog. 24 Hygiene et environnement                                                                147,533.8  257,634.7  405,168.5    245.9    429.4    675.3            64         3
Prog. 29 Developpement des capacites de recherches                                                80,366.0  434,012.8  514,378.8    133.9    723.4    857.3             84        3
Prog. 30 Mobilisation du financement du secteur                                                   20,518.2  193,532.5  214,050.8        34.2    322.6    356.8         90         1
Prog. 32 Rationalisation de la gestion du personnel                                              7.777.6  121.344.3  129,121.9          13.0 ...20QL2 ___215_2          94        l
Subtotal Renforcemnt doe capacites do gostion                                                       263,324.7  1,088,693  1,352,018    438.9  1,814.5  2,253.4             81         8
3. hReforcement du oaum-s ctm1r phar ac utiqu :
Prog. 4 Reglenentation du sous-secteur pharmcaceutique                                            39,488.7  143,880.5  183,369.2        65.8    239.8    305.6         78         1
Prog. S Renforceeent circuit approvision. des medicaments                                        22.043.3  732.901  4  754.944.8    36.7  1 221.5  1.25.2i             97        5
Subtotal Ranforc4ent du couo-secteur phaz4scoutique                                                  61,.5321  876.781.9  93.3S13.9    10.6  1.461.3  1.563. 9             93         6
Subtotal Renforcent do ls gestion at do 1 adoisistration  du secteur                                    2,668,913  4,571,437  7,240,349  4,448.2  7,619.1 12,067.2            63        45
D. lonforcemnt du Partenariat dons l- Sacteur do l Santo
1. Renforcement du partenarist pour l  coordination et 1 evaluation dec programmes de santa
Prog. 7 Promtion/Dvpt des activites des secteurs prives, parap.                                      885.6   13,874.4   14,760.0         1.5      23.1      24.6       94         -
Prog. 36 CONFP/CDRHP/COGRZ/COGES/COGEC                                                           4569.57.7   49,.183.4  S06.1 1.1      71.6       82.0    843.6         10 
Subtotal Raforcement du Partenriat dans la Secteur do la Sante                                          457,843.3   63,057.8  520,901.1    763.1    305.1    868.2            12         3
Z. Gostion du projet
1. Coordination du projet
Prog 0 Coordination et gestion du projet                                                         153.313.8  32..448.2  477.762.0    255.5    50.7         796.3        68         3
Subtotal ection du projet                                                                               153.,313.8  324.44.2  477762.0    255. 5           540.7    796A:     68         3
Total 1SnLtN  CoSTS                                                                                      5,739,521 10,453 539 16,193,060  9,565.9 17,422.6 26,988.4            65       100
Physical Contingencies                                                                                 358,175.2  844,647.3  1,202,823    597.0  1,407.7  2,004.7            70         7
Price Contingencies                                                                                  1.811.,956  852.R98.6  2.664.854  3.,019.9  142L.5  4            4414   32        16                     >
Total PROVMCT COSTS                                                                                      7,909,652 12,151,085 20,060,737 13,182.8 20,251.8 33,434.6            61       124                 s a
Ned May 03 08:18:28 1995



67                                               ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 6
PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR
Project Ce_onnts by Year
(US$ '000)
Base Cost
196 1997      19         99       20        oa
A. Developpment ds Services at Programmes de Plening  Vasilial
1. Promotion at eaIon de la politique de population
Prog.l1 Planification familiale                                                                    418.2    146.1    275.7    127.9    148.3  1,116.1
2. Services at coi          ttre d  P
Porg. 8. Waternite sans risque                                                                     288.4      13.2    305.3       13.2     13.2    633.3
Prog. 9 Surveillance de Ilenfant                                                                     sJi A    12.9    387S.     18.4 ...21.6    s25.8
Subtotal Services et soins an eatiere is 373.8 _I2L                                                              6.-J- 692.9  --.-I            34.8   1159i1
Subtotal Developpeat des Services  t Progras di  Planning Pailial                                         792.0    172.1    968.6    159.5    183.0  2,275.2
S. Amelioration de la qualite et di 1 arficacite dcs services prioritaires
1. lrnforcesnt dis prograe  prioritaires
a. Lutte contra lea maladies
Prog.10 Nutrition                                                                               224.5      30.3    258.2      23.4      16.0    552.4
Prog. 12 Paludiame                                                                              295.3    128.9    103.9    135.7        83.6    747.4
Porg. 17 Tuberculose                                                                             54.8      54.8      54.8     54.8      54.8    274.2
Prog. 19 MST/SIDA                                                                               232.9    205.1    329.8    229.1    215.9  1,212.8
Prog. 20 Maladie bucco-dentaire                                                              --- 1       jf2 162l.    - J.2   167.3      14.4    372.8
Subtotal Lutte contra lee maladis                                                                  821.7    581.8    761.0    610.3    384.8  3,159.6
b. Activits de prmotics
Dvpt des capacites de mobilisation sociale IRC/BPS                                              149.5    160.9    147.4    105.1        85.3    648.3
Hygiene et environnement                                                                        15.6.7  -_LS         80.7      84.0     78.7    51aI0lA
Subtotal Activites de prcotions                                                                    n 3062  f.2    _. f  22l.1        189.11 w.,5.8S7
Subtotal 3aforc-int des programes prioritair-e                                                       1,127.9    853.1    989.1    799.4    548.8  4,318.3
2. Zaforcomt du systm  is referace
Prog. 2 Rehabilitation/Dvpt des infrastructures sanitaires                                      1.17R.1  2.761.4  1 501Li    876.7    345.6S 6.663.3
Subtotal Amlioration ds la qualite at di  1 efticacita ds s ervice  prioritmires                        2,306.0  3,614.5  2,490.5  1,676.1    894 4 10,981.6
C. Senfornest da is gastion at de 1 administration  dn sectwur
1. Decatralisation
Prog. 26 Renforc-nent deo  capacites de planification/preparation des programmes                 2,216.9  1,566.1  1,724.3  1,686.0  1,056.7  8,250.0
2.  af orcat de.  capacites de gestion
Prog. 23 Dvpt des capacites de mobilisation sociale ISC/SPS                                         52.9       3.1      40.0      12.9     40.0    148.8
Prog. 24 Hygiene et environnemnt                                                                   256.7      98.2    104.1    121.9       94.4    675.3
Prog. 29 Developpement dam capacites de recherches                                                 302.5      53.1    227.9       38.9    235.0    857.3
Prog. 30 Mobilisation du financeent du secteur                                                     183.1      84.6      73.6         -     15.5    356.8
Prog. 32 Rationalisation de is gestion du personnel                                              _11.L       -18.5 ...               -     1..I     215.2
Subtotal Zaforcant des capacites di  gestion                                                          943.8    297.4    480.7    173.7    397.8  2,253.4
3. RSaforcat du sous-sectaur pharmaceutique
Prog. 4 Reglementation du sous-secteur pharmaceutique                                              134.7      67.9      41.0      37.9     24.1    305 6
Prog. S Renforcement circuit approvision. des medicamants                                       --- 2Q.LA    234.0   .290.   _263.4 2.6. 3 .4I 1.258.2
Subtotal Raforc .et in sons-sctaur pbhjmcautiqua                                                    ---.L   _..QL9  -.....          30ILJ    287.c5  1563A  9
Subtotal tRnforcemnt di  la gestion at di  1 adainistration  di  sectaur                                3,502.8  2,125.4  2,536.0  2,161.1  1,742.1 12,067.2
D.  aorcemnt du Partasriat dame le Sactear de la Sante
1. Raforc  nt du partariat pour la coordination at 1-evaluation d_ programs di  sants
Prog. 7 Promotion/Dvpt des activites des secteours prives, parap.                                       -        -      12.3         -     12.3      24.6
Prog. 36 CNE8P/CDORP/COGRZ/COG8S/COGSC                                                            .270   . L g.O      l28i        78 1.3    19.6    843.6
Subtotal Raforcat du Partenriat daxs la SBectur di  is Sante                                              270.3      95.0    220.7      78.3    203.9    868.2
*. Gestion du projet
1. Coordination du projet
Prog 0 Coordination et geetion du projet                                                           213.5 .0.._J 2D4.9    Q63.3    796.3
Subtotsl Cation di  projet                                                                                21325    108.1   204.9       106.5    163.3    796.3
Total 3AS5Ln   COSTS                                                                                     7,084.5  6,115.1  6,420.6  4,181.4  3,186.8 26,988.4
Physical Contingencies                                                                                   506.9    548.9    452.9    313.6    182.4  2,004.7
Price Contingencies                                                                                             __14.6    79 .0L07..4  1.02a.s  .L0716  4441.4
Total PRO,2CT COSTS                                                                                      8,066.0  7,455.9  7,947.0  5,524.9  4,440.8 33,434.6
Taxes                                                                                                    688.9    826.3    695.7    406.3    165.3  2,782.5
Foreign Exchange                                                                                      6,013.1  4,791.4  S,085.7  2,766.3  1,595.3 20,251.8
Wed May 03 08:19:10 1995



68                                               ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 6
PROJECT AREAS BY IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
Project Areas by Imlementing Agencies
(US$ '000
DepartoMent Departement
Niveau      do            do-      Departement Departement Departoeent Departemont
central   1'Atacora  L1aAIan         duBnronU    duMono   de1'Oem           du Zou      Total
A. Genie civil
Centre comnunal de sante                       -           -         394.5            -        591.8            -           -    986.3
Centre de sante de sous-preoecture                         - -        5129.5          -       129.5             -           -    258.9
Hopital de district                            -        38.6         652.0         38.6       685.0         38.6         39.5  1,492.3
Direction departementale de la sante           -        68.5          68.5         68.5         68.5        68.5         68.5    411.0
Ministere do la Sante                     44S-.3           -             -            -            -            -           - 105. 
Subtotal Genie Civil                         445.3        107.1       1,244.5        107.1     1,474.6        107.1        108.0  3,593.9
B. Frais darchitecture                       200.0             -            -            -            -            -           -    200.0
C. Etude/Recherche                         1,223.3         62.5          61.7         67.9         62.9        62.9         62.9  1,604.0
D. Si8n3                                                                                                                             2
Materiel et consommables                  636.3        105.7         122.8        114.5       102.2         87.6        101.3  1,270.4
Equipement medico-technique                95.6        727.8         901.1          5.2       800.3         12.5         16.7  2,559.1
Equipement                                289.3        260.1         313.0        288.8       272.8        272.9        383.0  2,079.9
Vehicule                                  707.4        180.4         236.5        245.6       262.4        212.8        212.7  2,057.7
Mobilier de bureau                         37.0          9.9           9.9          9.9          9.9         9.9          9.9      96.6
Medicasnents                                   -       306.D         241.4        2.S          254.6       214.3               14816210.  .L
Subtotal aie                               1,765.5      1,590.0       1,824.7        918.6      1,702.3       810.1        934.2  9,545.3
S. Poration
Formation locale                        1,562.7        232.2         276.6        292.8       230.8        234.0        269.1  3,098.2
Formation a l1etranger                  1 5637.         232.2        467.6        467.6       463.0        463.0        463.0  4L429L4
Subtotal Pors gtion                        3,200.2        699.7         744.2        760.4        693.8       697.1        732.2  7,527.6
1. Service connultat
Assistance Internationale               1,947.2            -             -            -            -            -           -  1,947.2
Assisace  technique  locale             -32-1402                      1.           10.3         10.3        10.3         10.3  2384.1
Subtotal Service conaultant                2,270.4         10.2          10.3         10.3         10.3        10.3         10.3  2,322.1
0. Cout de fonctionament
Fourniture de bureau                      154.2        106.7          97.7         97.7        97.7         97.7         97.7    749.3
Deplacemont                            . 4L8            64.3          64.3         64.3         64.3        64.3         76.0    739Z2
Subtotal Cout de fonctionnUMent              496.0        171.0         162.0        162.0        162.0       162.0        173.6  1,488.5
H. Salaire                                   873.5        514.0         686.8        355.8        561.2       355.8        454.4  3,801.5
I. Maintea nce
Maintenance vehicule                      945.2        167.5         435.0        261.0       447.8        233.4        176.5  2,666.5
Maintenance Batiment                       39.8          6.9          62.9          6.9         72.6         6.9          6.2    202.3
Mtaintenance  equipement               --446.7           6.7           4.2          4.2         4.2          2.8          4.2    478
Total PSOJRCT COSTS                        11,909.9      3,335.6       5,236.3      2,654.2     5,191.8      2,448.3      2,662.5 33,434.6
Wed May 03 08:17:42 1995



69                                              ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 6
EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS BY FINANCIERS
Xenditure Accounts by Financiers
(US$ '000 )
Comusnautes                                                 Local
0IDA        _    LJc-La.  The. Gso.nAMnt..       Total           For.    (Excl.  Duties
t                          I                       Amount             SExch    Taxesifl  L ara
I. Znvestet Costs
A. Ci- civil
Construction/Rehsbilitation CCS          762.3      77.3   46.5    4.7   177.5    18.0    986.3         2.9    653.9    154.8  177.5
Construction/Rehabilitation HD         1,223.7      82.0       -      -   268.6    18.0  1,492.3        4.5  1,223.7         -   268.6
Construction/Rehabilitation CSSO         200.1      77.3   12.2    4.7    46.6    18.0    258.9         0.8    188.1      24.2    46.6
Construction/Rehabilitation DDS          337.0      82.0      -       -    74.0    18.0    411.0        1.2    337.0         -    74.0
Acheveent Ministers Sante                365.2      82.0      -            80.2    18.0    445.3        1.3    365.2         -    80.2
,r.is d'architecture                     188.0      94.0LQ             -- 12     6.0 ..200S   0             0.6    1880      -_12
Subtotal Cmi-  civil                      3,076.3      81.1   58.7    1.S   658.9    17.4  3,793.9        11.3  2,955.9    179.1   658.9
a. sims
Materiel *t consowasbles                 860.2      82.0       -      -   188.8    18.0  1,049.0        3.1    860.2         -   188.8
squipent medico-technique              1,672.8      82.0       -      -   367.2    18.0  2,039.9        6.1  1,672.8         -   367.2
Squipemenos                            1,692.2      82.1      -       -   368.5    17.9  2,060.7        6.2  1,692.2         -   368.5
Mobilier de bureau                        79.5      82.3       -      -    17.1    17.7      96.6       0.3      78.4      1.1    17.1
Vehicule                               1,613.6      82.0       -      -   354.2    18.0  1,967.8        5.9  1,613.6         -   354.2
Medicaments                              71276L      1    436.0 .._f..   .    .J     9.0  1.4aL.6       4A4  4LLL6           - _
subtotal giem                             6,831.0      78.6  436.0    S.0 1,428.7    16.4  8,695.6        26.0  7,398.7       1.1 1,295.9
C. Etude et recherches                    1,507.8      94.0       -      -    96.2      6.0  1,604.0       4.8  1,496.3      12.7    9S.1
D. Services dam exerts
Assistance technique internationals  1,766.1        94.0       -      -   112.7      6.0  1,878.8       5.6  1,765.1       3.6   110.0
Assistance technique locale              3017.      67.9       -145.7    32.1    453.3A   1.              4    426.1  .            27.2
subtotal Services des rerta               2,073.7      88.9       -      -   258.4    11.1  2,332.1        7.0  2,191.2       3.6   137.2
3.  oMtioc
Formtion a letranger                   4,156.0      93.8      -       -   273.4      6.2  4,429.4      13.2  4,156.0      36.0   237.4
Formation locale                       .036.     .1      35.709 - L0Q2I ..     .J 98.2                  93  2.J036.1    932.2   130 o
subtotal Formtim                                   --ILJ ......1A5                     17.7  7.S27.6      22.5  6.192L1    96R.2  3l7.3
Total Investuat Costs                        19,680.8      82.2  494.6    2.1 3,777.8    15.8 23,953.2        71.6 20,234.1  1,164.7 2,554.4
IZ. XcUr.rnt Costs
Fourniture de bureau                        805.9      91.S       -      -    74.9      8.5    880.8       2.6         -    880.8        -
Deplacement                                 665.3      90.0       -      -    73.9    10.0    739.2        2.2         -    739.2        -
Agents contractuels                       3,028.4      79.7       -      -   773.1    20.3  3,801.5       11.4         -  3,573.4   228.1
Maintenance vehicule                      2,480.8      90.0       -      -   275.6    10.0  2,756.4        8.2         -  2,756.4        -
Maintenance batiment /a                     182.1      90.0   20.2   10.0         -       -    202.3       0.6         -    202.3
Maintenance equipoment                      9909I    90.0         -      -.      2..         LQ      3.010 ...o.1.3  17.7 1.083i4
Total Racurrat Costs                         1.I53.4  ...ALJ _._J2  _._2_ l1.Q77    138  .48.L3               28.       17.7  9 235.6   22.2
Total Diabrs_at                                27,834.2     83.2  514.9    1.5 5,085.5    15.2 33,434.6    100.0 20,251.8 10,400.3 2,782.5
\a Y compris eu, electricite et telephone
Ned May 03 06:18:12 1995



70                                                ANNEX 13
Page 6 of 6
DISBURSEMENT ACCOUNTS BY FINANCIERS
Dieburs  eat Accounts by Fina,ciers
1US$ 1000 )
Cososunautes                                                   Local
1DA    ,locle         The Governlnt           Total          For.    (Excl.  Duties
n                  mt     Amn                        Aut f Bc TaxsE Lmm
A. rqui_eet at fourniture
Materiel et consonables              1,058.9       83.9       -      -   203.6    16.1  1,262.5          3.8    927.4    131.5   203.6
Equipemnt medico-technique           1,605.5       82.0       -      -   352.4    18.0  1,958.0          5.9  1,605.5          -   352.4
Bquipements                          1,692.2       82.1       -           368.5    17.9  2,060.7         6.2  1,692.2          -   368.5
Mobilier de burea                        79, 5     8  3              -      7.      17.7      96.6       0-3      78.4       1 1    17.1
Subtotal Aqui_Pat at touruitura    4,436.2            82.5       -       -   941.7    17.5  5,377.8        16.1  4,303.5    132.6   941.7
8. Vehicules                            1,613.6       82.0       -       -   354.2    18.0  1,967.8         5.9  1,613.6          -   354.2
C. Medicamts
Medicaments                            912.7      61 6436.                           9.0  1,48L-6        4.4  14816            -
Subtotal  edi_cats                         912.7      61.6  436.0   29.4   132.9        9.0  1,481.6        4.4  1,481.6          -        -
D. Genie Civil
Congtruction/rehabilitation CCS        762.3       77.3   46.5    4.7   177.5    18.0    986.3           2.9    653.9    154.8   177.5
Conatruction/rehabilitation HD    1,223.7         82.0        -      -   268.6    18.0  1,492.3          4.5  1,223.7          -   268.6
Construction/Rehabilitation CSSP    200.1          77.3   12.2    4.7    46.6    18.0    258.9           0.8    188.1      24.2    46.6
Conatruction/rehabilitation DDS        337.0       82.0       -      -    74.0    18.0    411.0          1.2    337.0          -    74.0
Achevement Ministare Sante             365.2       82.0       -      -    80.2    18.0    445.3          1.3    365.2          -    80.2
Frais d'architecture                   18                                                 __ 94.0  -  -    12 0   .o.20Q00  0.6    188 o.L  - 1
Subtotal  dalex Civil                   3,076.3       81.1   58.7    1.S   658.9    17.4  3,793.9          11.3  2,955.9    179.1   658.9
3. Seric deqrts
Appui aux programes                  1,921.6       94.0       -      -   122.7       6.0  2,044.3        6.1  1,920.7        3.6   120.0
Preparation at execution projet  __.6JA   __34._2                    -   11.4ILA ....         2.L   . .L   ....                -
lubtotal Services deqerts               2,006.2       88.8       -           254.1    11.2  2,260.3         6.8  2,123.7        3.6   132.9
P. lorution
Formation a 1'-tranger               4,156.0      93.8        -      -   273.4       6.2  4,429.4       13.2  4,156.0      36.0   237.4
Formation locale                    2.10.5LA  ---.4.A        -       - L.0I6A 4     33f6  3.170. 0       9.5  2.J103.5s   93 __2    __1J_3
Subtotal Vormation                      6,259.5       82.4       -       - 1,339.8    17.6  7,599.4        22.7  6,259.5    968.2   371.6
0. Etudes et recherche                  1,507.8       94.0       -       -    96.2      6.0  1,604.0        4.8  1,496.3       12.7    95.1
S. Couts de touetiom at
Maintenance vehicules                2,480.8      90.0        -      -   275.6    10.0  2,756.4          8.2         -  2,756.4        -
Maintenance batiments                  182.1      90.0   20.2   10.0          -        -    202.3        0.6         -    202.3
Maintenance equipeant                 .990.9       90.0       -      -   110.1    10.0  1,101.0          3.3      17.7  1,083.4
Salaires                             3,028.4       79.7      -       -   773.1    20.3  3,801.5         11.4         -  3,573.4   228.1
Cout de fonctionnamsnt                 991.6      90.0       -       -   110.2    10.0  1,101.8          3.3         -  1,101.8
Cout de fontionnamnt                    34J S .       O       -      - .a..       1.0.0    36.7i      1.2            -    386.-
Subtotal Coets de fonctionn_ont    8L 021    ---Ac 8                 2.2     o2 1.307.7 __4L oI349.8    28 0         17.7  9.L14.0   228.1
Total                                   27,834.2       83.2  514.9    1.5 5,085.5    15.2 33,434.6    100.0 20,251.8 10,400.3 2,782.5
Ied May 03 08:17:58 1995



ORGANIGRAMME DU MINISTERE DE LA SANTE
(Structure de gestion du projet)
| Minstre
Conseilliers                      CNEEP
Techniques                           3
Attach do                        Secretariat
Cabinet                  = Particuliculir
Directeur
Cabinet                                                       f
DAC
Affach6                        Secretariat    Sce Audit | 
Presse                        AdministratifI  et contr6le                 (
DSAF   DPCE             DIEM                 DHAB    DNPS   DPHL                  DSF
4,2         1            4                    4           4           4           4
1. Coordination et gestion                        C
2. Comptabilit6
3. Suivl et evaluation                    DDS                     CDEEP
4. Execution
o X






72                      ANNEX 1S
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ACTIVITIES                1995       1996       1997        1998       1999       2000
1234  1234  1234  1234  1234  1234
CIVIL WORKS
- Zone hospital
Selection of
architect firm      x x x x
. Completion of bid
documents                        x x
. Tender bids                        x
.Construction period                  x    x x x x                x x x x
- CCS/CSSP
. Completion of bid
documents               x x
. Tender bids                      x
. Construction period             x x x        x
- MOHIDDS
. Completion of bid
documents               x x
. Tender bids                      x
. Construction period             x x x        x
EQUIPMENT
- MOH/DDS
. Completion of bid               x x
documents
. Tender bids                         x
. Delivery &
installation                                  x
- CCS/CSSP
. Completion of bid               x x
documents
. Tender bids                         x
. Delivery &
installation                                  x
- Zone hospital                                                  .
. Completion of bid                            x x
documents
. Tender bids                                    x
. Delivery &
installation                                            x
- CHD
. Completion of bid               x x
documents
. Tender bids                         x
. Delivery &
installation                                  x



73                        ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 5
ACTIVITES                1995       1996        1997       1998       1999       2000
1234  1234  1234  1234  1234  1234
-DDS
. Completion of bid      x x
documents
. Tender bids                      x
. Delivery &
installation                      x                    _
DRUGS
- CHD/ZHCCS/CSSP
. Completion of bid      x
documents
. Tender bids             x
. Delivery &
distribution                   x x x x   x x x x   x x x x   x x x x   x x.x x
PERSONNEL              ______                  _
-MOH                  _
. Selection        |               x                :
.Evaluation                        x
c Ra ruitment                       x
-DDS/ZH
.Disirbution                              x x x x   x x x x   x x x x   x x x x
. Settlement                               x x x xx   x xxx   x xxx   x x x x
REVIEW
- Launching workshopx
- Annual review                      x           x          x          x           x
- Mid-term evaluation                                       x
- Audit               _              x          x          x           x          x
- Implementation
completion report                                                                x x



74                                  ANNEX 15
Page 3 of S
LOCAL TRAINING DESCRIPTION                                         _
1996   1997  1998  1999   2000
Sector Policy Formulation and          _      _              ___
Strategy Implementation
- Declaration of Govt health
policy                                    _
. DPHUSeance proclamation
. politique pharmaceutique          x
. DDSITDIEM en informatique
. Atelier revision strategie nationale                    x
- Strengthening of sector
coordination structures
Institutional Capacity
- Strengthening partnerships between
public health services, communities  |                          _
and the private sector                    _      T
. Reunion de concertation                          x             x
. PF/Seminaire politique de population  x
. PF/Reunions/Comite intersectorielle  x    x      x      x      x
. MST/SIDAlAtelier definition politique  x                x
. IEC/Atelier revision politique    x       x      x      x      x
. IEC/Reunion/Comite NI soutien IEC                       x
D DDS/Seminaire d'integration des
prives dans le SNIGS               x
. Reunion/CNEEP                     x      x       x      x      x
. DDS/Reunion/CDEEP                 x      x       x      x      x
COGES/COGEC                        x              x             x
. Fomation formateurs               x
COGES/COGEC
. Formation membres COGES/COGEC    x
- Decentralization
. DDS/SAFA/Gestion decentralisation
du personnel                       x       x
. DDS/TDIEM en informatique                             _
. DDSNulgarisation des procedures de
gestion administratives            x       x      x      x      x
. Initiation Medecins chefs gestion des
ressources humaines                x       x      x      x      x
. DDS/Outils de planification       x                     x



ANNEX 15
Page 4 of 5
Quality and Sustainability of
Health Services
- Improved patient management
. PF/Atelier finanlisation normes et
standards                          x
. PF/Atelier finalisation livrets gestes  x
. PF/Seminaire sur respect des condi.  x    x       x      x      x
. PF/Seminaire sur respect des condi.
. MST/SIDA/Atelier elaboration guide
prise encharge                     x                      x
. MST/SIDA/Atelier elaboration schema
therapeutique                       x
. MST/SIDA/Atelier programme de
prevention                                 x              x
. IEC/Atelier trad. en langues nles  x      x       x      x      x
- Pharmaceuticals
. DPHUSeance proclamation         _
politique pharmaceutique
. DPHL/lnformation des groupes
cibles                             x       x       x      x      x
. DPHURegle normes prescrip.         x              x
. DPHUReunion de concertation       x       x              x
. Seminaires outils de gestion      x               x
. Utilisation formulaire/ordinigramme       x
. Gestion des medicaments                           x
Management of Sector
Resources
- Improved performance of
personnel
. DDSITDIEM en informatique         x
. PF/Equipe formation/DDS directives        x
. Palud./Recyclage formateurs depart.    x  x       x      x      x
. Palud./Recyclage agents sentinnelles      x              x
. MST/SIDA/Fotmation des formateurs    x
. MSTlSIDA/Tradipraticiens          x
Bucc6ICSSP/CCS/lnfirmiers                                 x
. Bucco/CSSP/CCS/Enseignants                               x
. IEC/Formateurs departementaux     x       x       x      x      x
. IEC/Atelier conception messages    x      x       x      x      x
. IEC/DDS/Equipe departementale     x       x
. HYG/ENV/Agents d'hygiene          x               x
. HYG/ENV/CSSP/CCS/Infirmier                               x



76                                       ANNEX 15
Page 5 of 5
. DPE/Secretaire en informatique    x                   ______
. Reflexion sur mutation personnel  x       x       x      x      x
. DDS/Doumentaliste                         x
. Technicien superieur de genie civil  x                   x
. Technicien de genie civil                 x              x
. Dessinateur/Tireur                x               x             x
.Stage garage central                               x      x      x
. DPCE/Supervision formation        x               x
. DDS/Equipe en techn. supervision  x                      x
. DDS/DS/Sante publique             x       x
. DDS/Seminaire d'information       x
. DDS/Equipe planification
SNIGS                               x                     x
. CCS/Gestion des SSP               x               x             x
D DS/Equipe d'encadrement continue  x               x             x
. Preparation des pers. aux situations
d'urgence                           x              x             x
. DDS/Agents de recherche operation.        x                     x
. Methologie de la recherche        -x              x             x
- Adequate Sector Financing
. Atelier financement du secteur    x       x       x      x
. Formation des formateurs en
elaboration des budgets            x       x       x      x      x
. Formation en elaboration des budgets    x  x      x      x      x
. Atelier sur la capacite de
recouvrement des couts             x
. CHD/CCS/HZ/ Financement
communautaire                      x               x             x
. DDS/DS/Systeme de gestion
financiere et comptable            x                      x
. CGP/Comptablite et gestion        x       x       x
. CGP/Passation des marches         x       x
- Management of sector property
. DDS/Diffusion des normes                                 x






77
REPUBLIC OF BENIN                         ANNEX 16
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT                      Page 1 of 4
INDICATORS FOR PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
For each of the main project components, the indicators are classified into one of two
categories, monitoring or evaluation, as appropriate. Within each group of indicators, those
representing milestones are followed by the letter "M" in parentheses. The indicators will
guide project staff in Benin and Bank staff to keep track of project implementation, to make
appropriate modifications in implementation and to evaluate the performance of the project
on the basis of its specified objectives.
Component: Development and expansion of family planning services.
Indicators for monitoring
For population policy
- Formal adoption of population policy (M)
- % copies of population policy distributed to specified recipients.
- % planned radio and drama programs produced.
For expansion of family planning services
- % planned FP surgical equipment delivered (district level).
- % planned FP kits delivered (CCS/CSSP levels).
- % health facilities with appropriate equipment for FP.
- Staff training program developed (M).
- % planned FP training manuals provided to regions.
- Number of new clients seen per year.
- Number of voluntary surgical contraception procedures performed per year.
- % planned training programs held.
- % eligible staff trained.
Indicators for evaluation
- % of women with access to family planning services.
- % of clients reporting satisfaction with services received.
- Contraceptive prevalence rate.
- Total Fertility Rate (TFR).



78                                 ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 4
Component: Improving the quality and efficiency of priority health services.
Indicators for monitoring
For "Improvement of the health and nutritional status of mothers and children"
- Guidelines and norrns developed for antenatal, intrapartum and postnatal care (M).
- Training program developed for staff to use guidelines and norms (NI).
- % health facilities with copies of guidelines and norms.
- % planned equipment (for managing high-risk pregnancies, emergency deliveries and post-
surgical care) delivered.
- % district hospitals with appropriate surgical units for caesarean sections.
- % district hospitals with appropriate laboratory facilities.
- % CCS with the required number of delivery beds.
- % CSSPs with the required number of delivery beds.
- % planned specialization training started.  -
- % health facilities delivering ante-natal care according to guidelines and norms.
- % health facilities delivering intra-partum care according to guidelines and norms.
- % health facilities delivering post-natal care according to guidelines and norms.
- % planned cold chain equipment delivered.
- % cold chain equipment in working order.
- % planned ORT supplies delivered.
- % planned weight scales delivered.
- % planned nutrition surveillance records delivered.
- Training program for service delivery staff developed (M).
- % planned micronutrient supplements delivered.
- National malnutrition survey completed (N).
- Evaluation of current EPI strategies completed (M).
- % planned training programs held.
- % eligible staff trained.
- % health facilities implementing appropriate growth monitoring and nutritional counselling
activities.
For "Control of communicable and parasitic diseases and traumas"
- Guidelines, norms and standards developed for the control of specified communicable and
parasitic diseases (N.
- % eligible health facilities with copies of new guidelines, norms and standards for the
control of specified communicable and parasitic diseases.
- Training program developed for the use of new guidelines, norms and standards (M).
- % planned training sessions held.
- % eligible staff covered by training programn.
- % eligible health facilities with necessary laboratory materials for diagnostic work.
For "Strengthening offirst and second referral health care at the district and regional levels".
- % planned equipment delivered.
- % specified equipment in working condition.
- Guidelines, norms and standards developed for hospital care (M).



79                               ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 4
- Guidelines, norms and standards delivered to hospitals (M).
- Annual in-service training program formulated.
- % planned specialization training started.
- % planned specialization training completed.
- % eligible staff covered by in-service training program.
- Number of referrals from district hospitals to regional hospitals.
- Number of referrals from regional hospitals to district hospitals.
- Average duration of admission (length of stay) at district hospital level.
- Average duration of admission (length of stay) at regional hospital level.
For "Promoting community health and education".
- KAP-type survey completed on the communication channels most used by the public,
through which health, family planning and nutrition education messages can be channeled
(M).
- Education materials produced for better health, safe motherhood, farnily planning, nutrition
education, STD/AIDS prevention and environmental sanitation (M).
- % LHMC members trained in health promotion, disease prevention including STD/AIDS
and family planning, nutrition and environmental sanitation.
Indicators for evaluation
For "Improvement of the health and nutritional status of mothers and children"
- % of children fully immunized.
- % of women who delivered who had at least one pre-natal consultation with a trained
worker.
- % women of reproductive age immunized against tetanus.
- % deliveries assisted by trained personnel per year.
- Mean number of post-partum consultations per expected number of births per year.
- % women delivered in health facilities who returned for post-partum consultation.
- Incidence rate of low birth weight.
- Prevalence rates of:
- iron-deficiency anemia in women of reproductive age.
- stunting
- underweight
- vitamin A deficiency.
For "Strengthening offirst and second referral health care at the district and regional levels".
- % cases managed according to guidelines and norms at district hospital level.
- % cases managed according to guidelines and norms at regional hospital level.
- Bed occupancy rate at district hospital level.
- Bed occupancy rate at regional hospital level.



80                               ANNEX 16
Page 4 of 4
Component: Strengthening and streamlining of sector management and administration.
Indicators for monitoring
- % planned incremental staff recruited.
- Plans for training formulated (M).
- % planned training activities held, by categories of skills.
- Plans for departmental level supervision formulated (M).
- Pilot district health teams formed (M).
- Operational manual on decentralization prepared (M).
- % planned recipients who received copies of operational manual on decentralization:
- Planning and budgeting.
- Supervision.
- Maintenance.
- % health facilities that received satisfactory supervision in the preceding year.
Component:         Strengthening of partnerships for health program coordination and
evaluation.
Indicators for monitoring:
- % health facilities in which action plans for the year were made in collaboration with
COGEC/COGES.
- % health facilities in which COGEC/COGES meetings were held as scheduled in the
preceding year.
Indicators for evaluation:
- % health facilities in which the realization of goals was satisfactory in the preceding year.
- % health facilities maintaining essential drug capital.
- % health facilities implementing the published fee schedule.



81                            ANNEX 17
Page 1 of I
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
IDA SUPERVISION PLAN
Supervision missions will be organized around the two meetings of the national
committee in charge of monitoring and evaluating health programs (CNEEP): one to
review progress at the mid-year on implementation of the new sector strategy; and the
other to review implementation of annual plans and budgets, to evaluate progress achieved
and to plan and program the following year's activities, based on the previous year's
experience.
Approximate          Activity        Expected skills required     Staff input
Date                                                             (in staff weeks)
(Month/year)
11/95        Project launch mission    Procurement, disbursement,   10
health financing, civil works,
project management
4/96         Review implementation   Public health, procurement,    10
of annual plans and    project management, planning
budget of previous year   health financing
and plan/ program next
year activities
11/96        Strategic plan and mid-   Public health, health financing, 10
year implementation     civil works, management
review
4/97         Review implementation    Public health, procurement,    10
of annual plans and    project management, planning
budget of previous year   health financing
and plan/ program next
year activities
11/97        Strategic plan and mid-   Public health, health financing, 10
year implementation     civil works, management
review
4/98         Review implementation   Public health, procurement,    10
of annual plans and    project management, planning
budget of previous year   health financing
and plan/ program next
year activities
Cycle continues until end of Project.



0



82                    ANNEX 18
Page l of t
REPUBLIC DU BENIN
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(MIM)
COMPONENTS              1995       1996       1997        1998       1999      TOTAL
I   L    I    L      I    L    I    L       I    L    I    L
A.Family Planning
- Survey on infantil maternal
mortality                                        2                                 2
- Malaria control specialist                 1                                           1
B. Priority Health Services
- Malaria                                                     1                     1
- AIDS/MST coordination                3    6    2                 6    2           7    12
- Biomedical                           3                                            3
- Production materials                      12          6          6           6         30
- Nutritional programs           4    _     4           4          4    _     4          20
C. Sector Management and
Administration
- SNIGS/PTD/Carte sanitaire   2        2          2          2           2         10
- Zone hospital                       12          4          12          4         32
- Production material        1              6    1    6                  1    6    3    18
- Cost recovery                        5    24                                      5    24
- Health financing policy              2    12          6                           2    18
- Social anthropologist                     6           6                                12
- Production of manual           8          8           8          6           6         36
- Regulation and legislation    3                                                   3
- Human Resources           6                                                       6
D. Strenthening of
Paternships for Health
- Supervision and guidage        1          I    1              _                        3
E. Project Management
- Mid-term evaluation                             2                                 2
- Final evaluation                                                       2          2
- Reviews                        2          2           2          2           2         10
- Arcitect for civil works
monitoring                                 4           4          4          3          15
- Project management        2         0.5        0.5         0.5        0.5         4
TOTAL              14  15  27.5  84   144   43  15.5  28   11.5  27   85   199
I: International Consultant
L: Local Consultant






83                         ANNEX 19
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Personnel Overseas Training Schedule
(M/M)
Descriptions                     1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  Total
1.1 Long-term
- Physicians
. Epidemiologist(2 years)  12    12    12    12                 48
. Policy assessment(1 year)    12    12                         24
. Gyneco-obstetric(4 years) 36    36    72    72    36    36    288
. Surgery(4 years)       36    36    72    72    36    36    252
.Public health                 12    12    12    12             48
. Anesthetist(2 years)   24    48    24                         96
- Pharmacists
. Legislation(9 months)    18                                   18
. Policy assessment
(9 months)              18                                     18
- Administrators
- Health economics(2 years)           12    12                  24
- Health planning (2 years)           12    12                  24
. Documentalist (1 year)   12                                   12
H Human res. mgt
(18 months)             12    6      12    6                   36
.IEC (2 years)                        12    12                  24
- Engineers
. Electro. mec. (9 months)     9      9                         18
1.2. Short-term
- Seminars (15 to 60 days)  x   x      x      x     x            x
- Three months training
. Nurses                       36           36                  72
. Midwives               12                                     12
TOTAL              156   219   261   246   96    36    1014






84                        ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ MILLION)
IDA Fiscal year/    Disbursement  Cumulated   Cumulated    Undisbursed
semester             per semester  amount                 balance
FY 1996
July - Dec. 1995         0.5          0.5         1.8         27.3
Jan. - June 1996         1.4          1.9         6.8         25.9
FY 1997
July - Dec. 1996         3.7          5.6        20.1         22.2
Jan. - June 1997         3.8          9.4        33.8          18.4
FY 1998
July - Dec. 1997         3.3         12.7        45.7         15.1
Jan. - June 1998         3.6         16.3        58.6          11.5
FY 1999
July - Dec. 1998         3.5         19.8        71.2          8.0
Jan. - June 1999         2.6         22.4        80.6          5.4
FY 2000
July - Dec. 1999         2.2         24.6         88.5         3.2
Jan. - June 2000         2.0         26.6        95.7          1.2
FY 2001
July - Dec. 2000         0.7         27.3         98.2         0.5
Jan. - June 2001         0.5         27.8       100.0           0



REPUBLIQUE OF BENIN
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
1.    Analyse de la Situation du Personnel de Sante au Benin, Cellule de Suivi FED,
Dr. J-P Manshande, Juillet 1994.
2.    Audit organisationnel du Ministere de la Sante, Pichet, Novembre 1993.
3.    Arr&e  portant Reglement Interieur des Comites de Gestion ainsi que Manuel des
procedures de realisations des Audits des Centres de Sante par les Comites de
Gestion, Ministere de la Sante, Fevrier 1995.
4.    Decret 94-145 portant attributions, organisation et fonctionnement du Ministere de la
Sante et Arretes des Directions Centrales et Departementales, Ministere de la Sante,
Fevrier 1995.
5.    Le Financement du Secteur Sante au Benin: Situation Actuelle et perspectives futures
pour le partage des couits entre le budget de l'Etat, le financement communautaire et
le fmancement etranger, Peter Bachrach, Novembre 1993.
6.    Processus de Table Ronde: Concertation sur le Secteur Sante. Tome I: Diagnostic du
Secteur et Enonces de Politique; Tome II: Politiques, Strat6gies et Programmation.
Additif au Document de Base: Cadrage macro-economique et Couits du Programme,
Ministere de la Sante et Ministere du Plan et de la Restructuration Economique,
Decembre 1994.
7.    Projet d'Arrete de revision des CDEEP, Ministere de la Sante, Fevrier 1995.
8.    Projet de Decret de revision du CNEEP plus Communication d'introduction en
Conseil des Ministres, Ministere de la Sante, Fevrier 1995.
9.    Projet Plan Triennal de Developpement (PTD) 1995-97, Ministere de la Sante, Fevrier
1995.
10.   Projet Politique et Strategie Sanitaires Nationales, Ministere de la Sante, Fevrier
1995.
11.   Projet Procedures de Recrutement du personnel contractuel, Ministere de la Sante,
Fevrier 1995.



_  1 A L I                         ^ _\3     
/  EUL IS >/    ->                                 <N I G E R  
coTr j  ;        N0GE9IA    }               8NIGER
la,r_X    BURKINAX                                     Ka r ,~         C,
t-IL5J  QI!-L%     FASO                                                                                   1 eKrmaa \ j2'
fJ   2 0   4 0 60   8? L0                    r                           ,  
9'2J._(                  ~~~~~~Banikora,o( ~ ~ V0^
/  X                gu[>                  /Gogounou~~        S6&gbana           NIGERIA
;    Mate6iA/                                                    
{   '   SEa~Tngui6fa|) 
Ko b    \'IO kouniounuz         /    / .                
\NATITINGOU(k"D               Kune        ,inend6   g    ORGOU                  / &   <'
*>t.oukoumlATAKOR                                 Behmb&6(  6\
Ko                \(              Nd l N            kki
Diougou       .     
''l.    8    <;>            DDSC                             BENIN
2 $! X fI r ~HEALTH AND POPULATION
!(           ~TCh arou }:                             P ROJ ECT
i   l            l  > O                  ~~~~~~C I V I L  W  O  R K S
;) \           ~~OLess6      )      EQUIPMENT  EXTENTION   REHABILITATION   CONSTRUCTION
TOGO                                                           " at      CHD    as                        c CCS
i   !   \   [ avX   i                                       A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DDS
|     Glazau6 t-s I.s
-8   ~                  smvlu I        F|                                                    ccs        
,  i C     u  Xlts-at         ,                              PAVED ROADS
,   j t   5         eJ                          -~~~~~~~~GPAVEL ROADS
.  V   ,<    s    J    t                       i- R~~~~~~AILROADS
.X\jidjai              W t  eo.                        DISTRICT CAPITALS
0MgMy/pot  a7op\i                                DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
Ad 4on tizSj                                              -DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
_7-   hNotse.lume\tCSSP  -   zIPabe                          -~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Djakoicn-, \AMONO g   f       I 
l\\Dogbo-Tc,i     Aka,o       TWIhe bc-nd--l -1/.sdsomen sdo!At {lFo
fi  C P on/K,udglon                                  k6t6                          d.1  -l,  c hVqdPul
t   5_ a       OueC~deme-Ped          :                   -Yoj        
o GHANA  .^*I poP   ATLANTIQUE  a                                  ;.'                                                 o












