Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2734 BEN
Development Credit Agreement
(Health and Population Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 2, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2734 BEN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 2, 1995, between the REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated  May 
8, 1995 (hereinafter referred to as the "Letter of Sector Development Strategy") 
describing a
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to implement the Borrowerþs 
health sector strategy for the period 1995 to 1999 (hereinafter referred to as "the 
Program") and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
WHEREAS: (B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
The last sentence in Section 3.02 is deleted. 
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Association or for goods produced 
in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the GEneral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
 
(b)
"DPCE" means direction de la planification, de la coordination et de 
l'evaluation, the directorate within MOH in charge of planning, coordination and 
evaluation of health programs;
(c)
"DDS" means direction departementale de la sante, the Bureau in MOH in 
charge of the implementation of health sector programs at the departmental level;
(d)
"Health Zone" means a geographical area covered by a first referral 
hospital supporting the health facilities of one or more sous-prefectures;
(e)
"CHD" means centre hospitalier departemental, a health center serving 
departments in the territory of the Borrower;
(f)
"CSSP" means centre de sante de la sous-prefecture, a health center 
serving sub-prefectures in the territory of the Borrower;
(g)
"CCS" means centre communal de sante, a health center serving the 
communes in the territory of the Borrower;
(h)
"CNEEP" means comite national de suivi de l'execution et de l'evaluation 
des programmes du secteur de la sante, the national committee for the monitoring and 
evaluation of implementation of health sector programs established by the Borrower and 
operating pursuant to the Borrower's Decret Number 90-236 of August 31, 1990;
(i)
"CDEEP" means comite departemental de suivi de l'execution et de 
l'evaluation des programmes du secteur de la sante, the departmental committee for 
monitoring and evaluation of implementation of health sector programs established by 
the Borrower's Arrete Number 688 of February 27, 1989;
(j)
"COGEZ" means comite de gestion de la zone, one of the committees to be 
elected by the communities covered by the Health Zones to manage such Health Zones;
(k)
"COGES" means comite de gestion de la sous-prefecture, committees elected 
by the communities served by the CSSP to manage the CSSP and operating under the 
responsibility of MOH pursuant to the Borrower's Arrete Number 0390 of February 14, 
1995;
(l)
"COGEC" means comite de gestion de la commune, one of the committees 
elected by communities served by the CCS to manage the CCS and operating under the 
authority of MOH pursuant to the Borrower's Arrete Number 0390 of February 14, 1995;
(m)
"Centrale d'Achate means the financially autonomous agency created by the 
Borrower's Decret Number 89-307 of July 28, 1989, to procure drugs and medical 
supplies for public and private non-profit health facilities;
(n)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual setting out the roles, 
responsibilities, procedures, and processes for the coordination, management, 
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including performance 
indicators and procurement, disbursement, accounting, auditing and reporting 
arrangements, to be adopted by the Borrower as provided for in Section 6.01 (c) of 
this Agreement as the same may be amended from time to time by the Borrower with the 
Page  3
consent of the Association, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the 
Project Implementation Manual;
(o)
"Annual Review" means the review referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this 
Agreement;
(p)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(q)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.01 (c) (ii) 
of this Agreement; and
(r)
"CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to seventeen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
17,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF, a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 2005 and ending May 1, 2035.  Each 
installment to, and including the installment payable on May 1, 2015, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
Page  4
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through MOH with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative and health practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02 Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall for the purposes of the Project: 
(a)
open and maintain in CFAF in the name of MOH an account (the Project 
Account) in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to CFAF 
216,000,000;
(c)
thereafter, deposit into the Project Account in each year during the 
implementation of the Project, an amount or amounts equivalent to the following 
aggregates:  (i) CFAF 349,000,000 for the second year after the Effective Date; (ii) 
CFAF 200,000,000 for the third year after the Effective Date; (iii) CFAF 296,000,000 
for the fourth year after the Effective Date; (iv) CFAF 237,000,000 for the fifth year 
after the Effective Date, or such other amount or amounts as the
Association may specify during the Annual Review as being required for the purposes of 
the Project; and
(d)
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account pursuant to 
paragraphs (b) and (c) above shall be used only to make payments to meet expenditures 
made or to be made in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services for 
the Project not financed or to be financed by the Credit.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than April 30 in each year, submit 
to the Association, for its review and comments: (a) the updated three-year rolling 
development plan for its health sector for the succeeding years and a report on the 
execution of the sector's recurrent budget for the past year; and (b) its salary and 
non-salary recurrent budget allocations to the health sector for the following year.
Section 3.04.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the 
Page  5
General Conditions, the Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, not 
later than April 30 in each year, an annual review of the progress made in carrying 
out the Project and the Program. Each Annual Review shall cover among other things:
(i)
improvements in the quality of health services, particularly 
family planning, maternal and child health, immunization and 
prevention, and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases, and in 
the Borrower's patient referral system;
(ii)
progress in strengthening and decentralizing management and 
administration of the Borrower's health sector;
(iii)
increase in participation in various health activities of the 
private and public sector contributors to, and beneficiaries of, 
the Borrower's health services; and
(iv)
in the years 1997 and 1999, an assessment of the impact of 
services provided under the Project by the beneficiaries of such 
services.
(b)
The Borrower shall, at least four (4) weeks prior to each Annual Review, 
furnish to the Association a report describing the status of the elements listed in 
paragraph (a) above and of the progress achieved in Project implementation generally, 
and a draft action program and budget for the following year.
(c)
The Borrower shall, not later than four (4) weeks after each Annual 
Review, furnish to the Association an action program and budget, acceptable to the 
Association and based on the findings of the Annual Review in question, for the 
further implementation of the Project, including, if appropriate, consequential 
amendments to the Project Implementation Manual and, thereafter, implement such action 
program.
Section 3.05 The Borrower shall not earlier than thirty-four (34) months and not 
later than thirty-eight (38) months after the Effective Date, carry out jointly with 
the Association a review (the midterm review) of the progress made in carrying out the 
Project. The midterm review shall replace the Annual Review scheduled for the year in 
question, shall be carried out according to the procedures laid out in Section 3.04 of 
this Agreement and shall cover, in such detail as the Association shall specify, the 
elements specified in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 3.06 The Borrower shall furnish to the Association:
(a)
by September 30, 1996 a time based action plan, acceptable to the 
Association, for regulatory reform of the pharmaceutical sub-sector; and
(b)
by June 30, 1997 an estimate of costs of hospital care and the Borrower's 
proposals for contribution to these costs by the beneficiaries thereof.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a)
by December 31, 1995 adopt a budgeting and costing system, acceptable to 
the Association, for all levels of its system for the delivery of health services; and
(b)
by December 31, 1996 prepare draft texts, acceptable to the Association, 
establishing medical treatment guidelines, norms, standards and protocols for its 
health facilities and adopt a plan and timetable, satisfactory to the Association, for 
their application in the territory of the Borrower.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services, required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.09. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Borrower and the Association a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Page  6
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, 
and of the COGES, the COGEZ and the COGEC and of the Centrale d'Achat. 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association by March 31, June 30, 
September 30 and December 31 in each year, a report of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall specify on the management of cash and stocks by the Centrale 
d'Achat.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
Page  7
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
The Borrower's Decret Number 90-236 of August 31, 1990 or Arrete Number 
688 of February 27, 1989 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or financial condition 
of the CNEEP or the CDEEP.
(c)
The Borrower's Arrete Number 0390 of February 14, 1995 shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the operations or financial condition of the COGES or the COGEC, or their 
ability to carry out community outreach work, to manage community financing, or to 
plan and evaluate health sector activities in their respective regions.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and deposited therein the 
initial amount referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower's Conseil des Ministres has adopted a national population 
policy acceptable to the Association in accordance with Paragraph 8 (a) (2) (i) of the 
Letter of Sector Development Strategy;
(c)
the Borrower has adopted a Project Implementation Manual satisfactory to 
the Association;
(d)
the Borrower has appointed consultants, selected in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, to assist the Borrower in 
the introduction of a decentralized accounting management and monitoring system for 
the Project accounts and to provide related training;
(e)
the Borrower has amended Decret Number 90-236 and Arrete Number 688 of 
February 27, 1989 in a manner acceptable to the Association in order to, among other 
things, modify the composition of the membership of the CNEEP and the CDEEP and to 
clarify their functions; and
(f)
a legal status acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, has been 
adopted for the Centrale d'Achat.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
B.P. 302
Cotonou, Benin
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
MINFINANCES 
MINFIN 5009 or 5289
Cotonou
For the Association:
International Development Association
Page  8
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By /s/ Lucien Tonoukouin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be Financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the Credit         % of
                      Allocated (expressed in    Expenditures
Category                  SDR equivalent)       to be financed
(1)  Civil works             1,930,000          100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and 80% of
                                                local expenditures
(2)  Furniture, medical &    4,180,000          100% of foreign
     other equipment,                           expenditures, 100% of local
     vehicles and drugs                         expenditures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80% of local
                                                expendiitures for other
                                                items procured locally
(3)  Consulting Services     5,660,000          100%
     and Training
(4)  Incremental recurrent   5,150,000          90% up to December 31,
     costs                                      1998; thereafter 80%
(5)  Unallocated               980,000
Total IDA Financing         17,900,000
Page  9
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures 
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign 
expenditures"; and
(c)
The term "incremental recurrent costs" means the incremental costs to MOH 
incurred under the Project on account of maintenance of offices, medical facilities, 
and of office and medical equipment and vehicles, acquisition of office supplies, 
travel and subsistence and salaries of local contractual staff.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and contracts 
for the employment of consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 
equivalent and for contracts for the employment of individual consultants under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000, under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to improve the health 
and well-being of its people, particularly the most vulnerable groups, through its 
contribution to the implementation of the Borrower's national health strategy for the 
period 1995 to 1999.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Development and Expansion of Family Planning Programs and Services
 
1.
Dissemination and promotion of the Borrower's national population policy.
 
2.
Carrying out activities to expand the coverage and improve the quality and 
availability of family planning services and to ensure their integration into the 
minimum package of health services offered through the Borrowerþs public health 
system, including:
(a)
acquisition and distribution of hospital and other medical equipment and 
of contraceptive supplies;
(b)
development and implementation of inservice training programs and 
supervision protocols for trainers of family planning service providers in order to 
assist them to provide training to traditional birth attendants, doctors, midwives and 
nurses;
(c)
provision of specialized training to physicians and midwives in family 
planning methods; and
(d)
carrying out of surveys and operational research to define and refine 
strategies for promotion and delivery of services.
Part B:
Improving the Quality and Efficiency of Priority Health Services
 
1.
Strengthening the patient management and referral system, including establishing 
district level referral facilities, and strengthening the capacity of selected health 
facilities at the various levels of the referral system to provide quality health 
services through:
Page  10
(a)
construction and rehabilitation of CCS facilities; rehabilitation of CSSP 
facilities; and upgrading and extension of selected CSSP facilities in order to 
transform them into district referral hospitals;
(b)
acquisition of medical and other equipment and of laboratory materials 
for the facilities described in the preceding paragraph;
(c)
acquisition of equipment for surgical, gynecological, obstetrical, and 
trauma services and for post surgical care at the CHD level;
(d)
recruitment of technical, administrative and support staff to work on a 
contractual basis for the facilities described in paragraph (a) above;
(e)
developing and applying in the territory of the Borrower treatment 
protocols, case management guidelines, and patient care norms and standards for each 
level of service in the referral system; and
(f)
carrying out diagnostic assessments of the management systems and quality 
of services of selected health facilities, and preparing and implementing 
recommendations to strengthen their capacity to improve the quality and efficiency of 
the medical services provided by such facilities.
2.
Strengthening Priority Health Programs and Services
 
Acquisition of medical equipment, and provision of training, technical 
assistance and ongoing supervision to priority health service providers for the 
purposes of:
(a)
Reproductive health:  (i) developing effective detection, referral and 
management strategies for high risk cases and complications of pregnancy and 
childbirth; and (ii) improving the quality of services provided by traditional birth 
attendants.
(b)
Child health:  (i) improving the management and preservation of vaccine 
supplies;  (ii) improving the quality of immunization, the treatment of acute 
respiratory infections and the prevention and control of diarrhea; and  (iii) carrying 
out an evaluation of immunization coverage and assessing the extent of utilization of 
oral rehydration therapy.
(c)
Nutrition:  (i) developing a surveillance system for the purposes of 
undertaking periodic monitoring of the nutritional status of selected vulnerable 
groups; (ii) strengthening the capacity of health service providers to diagnose, treat 
and prevent malnutrition; and (iii) strengthening the capacity of the Borrower's 
health service providers to increase public awareness of nutrition deficiencies and to 
encourage behavior changes to prevent them.
(d)
Control of Communicable and Parasitic Disease and Traumas: improving the 
treatment and prevention of malaria, tuberculosis, sexually transmitted diseases, AIDS 
and traumas.
(e)
Community Health and Education:  (i) Strengthening the Borrower's 
capacity to produce and disseminate educational messages promoting family planning and 
better health and nutrition; (ii) developing training modules for use in disseminating 
educational messages;  (iii) carrying out
research to determine effective communication channels; and (iv) carrying out an 
evaluation of the impact of the Borrower's family planning, health and nutrition 
education messages.
(f)
Water and Hygiene:  (i) reproduction and dissemination of the Code 
d'Hygiene Publique, Loi Number 015 of September 21, 1987; (ii) provision of guidelines 
and training to health personnel and hygiene workers;  (iii) carrying out an 
evaluation of the environment, particularly with regard to the availability of water 
supply and sanitation facilities, and its impact on the health status of the 
population;  and (iv) acquisition of portable water control units for the DDS level 
and construction or renovation and equipping of a small water control laboratory in 
Cotonou.
Part C:
Strengthening Sector Management and Administration
 
1.
Strengthening the capacity of the central, departmental and district levels of 
MOH to effectively assume decentralized management functions through:
Page  11
(a)
the Central Administrative Unit:  completion of construction and 
equipping of an office building for use by central staff of MOH;
(b)
the DDS:  (i) Rehabilitation and expansion of office buildings for use by 
departmental administrative units of MOH; (ii) acquisition and maintenance of office 
equipment vehicles and supplies; (iii) training of staff of DDS in public health and 
supervision techniques; and (iv) organization of seminars for health providers in 
departmental and local health facilities to inform them of the redefined role of the 
DDS and the Health Zones;
(c)
Health Zone Level Administrative Units: Establishment of the Health Zone 
level administrative units and of the COGEZ, including: (i) construction of office 
facilities for use by the staff of the Health Zone level administrative units; (ii) 
acquisition and maintenance of office equipment and vehicles for use by staff of the 
Health Zone level administrative units; (iii) provision of training to staff of 
district level administrative units in public health and supervision techniques; and 
(iv) provision of training in primary health care management to staff of the CCSs, the 
CSSPs and the Health Zones; and
(d)
Preparation and dissemination to MOH staff of manuals providing an 
overview of the rationale and content of key functions to be carried out at each level 
of the decentralized MOH administration and defining the roles and responsibilities of 
staff in the execution of these functions.
2.
Strengthening of Key Management Functions
 
(a)
Strengthening the capacity of MOH to plan and coordinate health sector 
activities through the provision of technical assistance and training to staff of DPCE 
and DDS.
(b)
Strengthening the capacity of DDS to plan and manage construction and 
maintenance of health facilities through: (i) provision of computer software and 
office supplies; (ii) training to staff to enable them to prepare architectural plans 
and to use the computer software; and (iii) carrying out periodic evaluations of the 
state of health facilities within each of the Departments in the territory of the 
Borrower and providing recommendations to DDS.
(c)
Personnel Management and Training:  Carrying out a comprehensive training 
program comprising pre-service, in-service and specialized training for staff involved 
in the implementation of the Program including: (i) preparation of modules on 
essential topics for inclusion in the basic curriculum for pre-service medical and 
paramedical training, including modules on generic drugs, cost recovery and family 
planning; (ii) design, testing and implementation of an in-service medical and 
paramedical training curriculum; (iii) provision of training to staff of the central 
administrative unit of MOH and of DDS in human resources management; and (iv) 
organization of workshops for health service providers, their managers and MOH 
administrators to address human resources management issues.
(d)
Allocation and Management of Financial Resources (i) Revision and 
implementation of the Borrower's health financing policy; and (ii) strengthening the 
capacity of MOH in budgeting and financial management through provision of training 
and contractual staff.
3.
Operational Research
 
(a)
Strengthening the capacity of MOH to collect, compile and disseminate 
relevant findings of existing research through provision of training, technical 
assistance and acquisition of office equipment and vehicles.
(b)
Carrying out field-based research to determine how to improve the 
performance of health service providers at the local level.
4.
Strengthening of Pharmaceutical Sector Management
 
(a)
Provision of training to staff of MOH in pharmaceutical legislation, 
policy and control.
(b)
Provision of training to staff of health facilities and of information to 
the general public on pharmaceutical policy and regulations, the dangers of the 
illicit sale of drugs and the cost-effectiveness of essential generic drugs.
(c)
Setting up a price stabilization mechanism to ensure continued 
Page  12
affordability of essential generic drugs.
(d)
Provision of essential generic drugs and other essential medical 
consumables to selected health facilities.
(e)
Improvement of the management of drug stocks and of prescription 
practices through carrying out an evaluation of current practices and providing 
training and supervision to address issues raised by the evaluation.
Part D:
Strengthening of Partnerships for Health Program Coordination and 
Evaluation
1.
Establishment within DPCE and operation of a secretariat for the CNEEP to be 
responsible for coordinating and facilitating the participation of various 
contributors to, and beneficiaries of, the Borrower's health services in the 
monitoring and evaluation of health programs.
2.
Establishment and operation within each DDS of a secretariat for the respective 
CDEEP.
3.
Provision of training to members of the COGES, the COGEZ, and the COGEC in 
primary health care, community participation, leadership and teamwork, animation 
techniques and management of community financing to enable them to carry out community 
outreach work, to manage community financing, and to plan and evaluate health sector 
activities in their respective regions.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification of bidders
 
Bidders for the first contract for drugs to be procured under the Project shall 
be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and to 
works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Works for the extension of the CSSP facilities to convert them into district 
hospitals as described in Part B. 1 (a) of the Project and other works estimated to 
cost $1,500,000 equivalent or less per contract, and $3,400,000 equivalent or less in 
the aggregate; (b) furniture and other equipment estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent 
Page  13
or less per contract and $1,300,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate; and (c) 
drugs, with the exception of those in the first contract for drugs to be procured 
under the Project, estimated to cost $75,000 equivalent or less per contract, and 
$100,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
 
Drugs, with the exception of those in the first contract for drugs to be 
procured under the Project, estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract 
and $200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate; and (b) goods estimated to cost 
$30,000 equivalent or less per contract and $400,000 equivalentor less in the 
aggregate may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping or Procurement from UN Agencies
 
Vehicles required for Project start-up, and estimated to cost $200,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines or may be procured from the Interagency Procurement 
Services Offices of the United Nations Development Project in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
 
Works which are an extension of an existing contract estimated to cost $30,000 
equivalent or less per contract and estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less in 
the aggregate; and (b) drugs which should be procured as an extension of an existing 
contract or must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with 
existing supplies and costing $200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with 
the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Limited International Bidding
 
Drugs, with the exception of those in the first contract for drugs to be 
procured under the Project, estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or less per contract 
and $500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines from the 
list of suppliers identified in the prequalification exercise referred to in paragraph 
2 (a) of Part B of this Section.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for works and goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
Page  14
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall 
not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (4) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $750,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 6,400,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
Page  15
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible  expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
