                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 26250

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-27340)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 17.9 MILLION (US$27.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                         REPUBLIC OF BENIN

                                                 FOR A

                               POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT




                                              June 30, 2003




Human Development II
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective May 7, 2003)

                                  Currency Unit = FCFA
                                   584.34 FCFA = US$ 1
                                      US$ 0.171 = 100 FCFA

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1 -     December 1

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGDSD    Agence de la gestion de la dimension sociale du développement (Social Development Agency)
AGETUR   Agence d'exécution des travaux urbains (Urban Works Agency)
CAME     Centrale d' achat des médicaments essentiels (Essential Drugs Purchasing Center)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CDEEP    Comité départemental d'exécution et d'évaluation des programmes de santé (Departemental
         Health Sector Program Implementation and Evaluation Committee)
CGAS     Medical Activities Accounting Management Unit
CMR      Child Mortality Rate
CDEEP    Comité departamental d'exécution et d'évaluation des programmes de santé (National Health
         Sector Program Implementation and Evaluation Committee)
CNEEP    Comité national d'exécution et d'évaluation des programmes de santé (National Health Sector
         Program Implementation and Evaluation Committee)
COGEC    Comité de gestion de la commune (Communal Management Committee)
COGES    Comité de gestion de la sous-préfecture (Subprefecture Management Committee)
COGEZ    Comité de gestion de zone (District Management Committee)
CSSP     Centre de santé de sous-préfecture (Subprefecture Health Center)
DDS      Direction départementale de la santé (Departmental Health Directorate)
DDSP     Regional Public Health Department
DHS      Demographic and Health Survey
DIEM     Direction des infrastructures, des équipements et de la maintenance (Infrastructure, Equipment
         and Maintenance Directorate)
DPCE     Direction de la planification de la coordination et de l'évaluation (Planning, Coordination, and
         Evaluation Directorate)
DPP      Direction de la programmation et de la prospective (Department of Planning and Projections)

DRFM     Direction des ressources financières et du matériel (Financial and Material
         Resources Diretorate)
DSAF     Direction des services administratifs et financiers (Administrative and
         Financial Services Directorate)
EGD      Essential Generic Drugs
FCFA     Franc CFA (African Financial Community)
FNUAP    Fonds des nations unies pour les activités de population (United
         Nations Fund for Population Activities)
FP       Family Planning
GTZ      Coopération technique allemande (German Technical Cooperation)
HPIC     Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IEC      Information, Education, Communication
IMCI     Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses

IMR      Infant Mortality Rate
MOPH     Ministry of Public Health (Ministère de la santé publique)
MPA      Minimum Package of Activities
MTEF     Medium-term Expenditure Framework
PDSS     Projet de Développement des Services de Santé (Health Service
         Development Project)
PERAC    Public Expenditures Reform Adjustment Credit
PER      Public Expenditure Review
PHP      Population and Health Project
PRSC     Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSR      Project Status Report
RHS      Reproductive Health Services
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SNIGS    Système national d'information et de gestion sanitaire (National
         Health Management and Information System)
STI      Sexually Transmitted Infection
UNFPA    United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
WHO      World Health Organization



                               Vice President:        Callisto E. Madavo
                            Country Director:         Antoinette M. Sayeh
                              Sector Manager:         Alexandre V. Abrantes
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:              Djibrilla Karamoko

                                   REPUBLIC OF BENIN
                         POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  9
6. Sustainability                                                                    12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   14
9. Partner Comments                                                                  15
10. Additional Information                                                           17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                26
Annex 8. Reproductive Health Indicators and the Financing of the Health sector       28
Annex 9. Summary Borrower/Executive Agency                                           31

Project ID: P000118                                                      Project Name: POPULATION AND HEALTH
Team Leader: Midou Ibrahima                                              TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 30, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: POPULATION AND HEALTH                                    L/C/TF Number: IDA-27340
   Country/Department: BENIN                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (97%); Central government administration (3%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Population and reproductive health
                            (S); Child health (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    06/30/1992                                        Effective: 09/30/1995              07/17/1996
   Appraisal:    06/18/1994                                            MTR: 09/17/1999                06/19/2000
    Approval:    05/30/1995                                         Closing: 06/30/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT. OF BENIN/MOH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto Madavo                                Edward Jaycox
Country Director:               Antoinette M. Sayeh                            Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Ian C. Porter
Team Leader at ICR:             Midou Ibrahima                                 Michael Azefor
ICR Primary Author:             Djibrilla Karamoko


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:U


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The main objective of the Population and Health Project (PHP) was to assist the government in its goal to
improve the health status of the population, in particular the most vulnerable population groups (women,
children, and the poor) through the support of the national health and population sector policy and strategic
objectives. The project was intended to provide better quality of and easier access to services likely to
improve the health of the communities. More specifically, this objective included:

l support to the implementation of the government's population policy (adopted in 1996) and family
     planning (FP) program through an expansion of family planning services and reproductive health
     services (RHS);
l support to the institutional reforms and reorganization planned under Decree N°94-145 of May 26,
     1994, and affecting the central and departmental levels of the Ministry of Health, Social Protection,
     and Status of Women (MSPSCF); the goal being to implement a more efficient delivery system of
     needed services through the implementation of three reforms: (a) decentralization and strengthening of
     sector management and administration; (b) reorganization of the referral system and the strengthening
     of technical capacity to support primary health care and nutrition services; (c) expansion of the
     participation of multiple stakeholders, including beneficiaries, in the planning, implementation, and
     evaluation of the national health policy and programs.

The PHP, the second health project to be funded by IDA in Benin, was in response to the implementation of
the Benin National Health Strategy presented at the sector round table held on January 13 and 14, 1995.
The project supported the implementation of this strategy based on: (i) the capacity-building and internal
efficiency of management and administration of the sector through the reinforcement of the DDS
management capacity, the creation of health districts, and the effective decentralization of management of
the sector's resources; (ii) the improvement of the quality and effectiveness of the health services through
reinforcement of the referral system to support technically primary health care; (iii) strengthened
partnerships (community participation, inter-sector coordination, and private sector) in order to strike the
proper balance between the real needs of the population, resource allocation, and quality of health care; and
(iv) the revitalization and implementation of mechanisms supporting partnership structures (Communal
Management Committee - COGEC, Subprefecture Management Committee - COGES, District
Management Committee - COGEZ, Departmental Implementation and Health Sector Program Evaluation
Committee - CDEEP, National Implementation and Health Sector Program Evaluation Committee -
CNEEP). The project was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), finalized by IDA in
June 1994, which gave top priority to the development of the social sectors. The strategy's objective in the
health sector was to consolidate progress accomplished under the first health project funded by IDA by
eliminating institutional and operational barriers to improved delivery of family planning, nutrition and
health services to the population. The project was complex and to be successful, required the involvement
of all health sector stakeholders, a national coverage and significant institutional changes.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The US$33.4 million project initially had five components in line with the above objectives:

(A) Development and Expansion of Family Planning Programs and Services (US$2.8 million). This
component was intended to support the implementation of the population policy through two



                                                     - 2 -

subcomponents:

l Promotion and dissemination of the National Population Policy which was to be carried out through
    the financing of printing and disseminating policy-related material, as well as the funding of workshops
    and other activities needed to raise public awareness.
l Scaling up of family planning services at the country level. The subcomponent's objective was to
    support the national strategy for the promotion of contraceptive use through family planning services.
    It financed surgical equipment, contraceptives, surveys, and operating costs, as well as the training of
    staff working in delivery rooms and operational research related to family planning.

(B) Improving the Quality and Efficiency of Priority Health Services (US$13.5 million). This
component was intended to support the sector policy and strategy through two subcomponents:

l Reinforcement of the referral system. This was to be carried out through the construction/rehabilitation
    of medical infrastructures, the supply of laboratory material and equipment for surgery, obstetrics and
    gynecology, the development of treatment protocols, norms, and standards. Moreover, this
    subcomponent was to fund the evaluation of hospital management systems.
l Reinforcement of priority health services and programs. This subcomponent was to support six
    priority programs and services intended to fight key causes of mortality and morbidity. It provided
    financing to all levels of the health system (material and technical equipment, office equipment and
    supplies, vehicles, workshops, studies and surveys, technical assistance, publicity, and operational
    research) as well as the development of norms and standards.

(C) Strengthening and Streamlining Sector Management and Administration (US$15 million). This
component was intended to support the decentralization process and to improve capacities of the Ministry
of Health in resource management, planning, and overhauling of the legal framework. It included four
subcomponents:

l Decentralization of management and administration. This subcomponent was designed to support the
    new Departmental Health Directorates, as well as districts and the ministry by funding the
    infrastructures, equipment, material, training, and other operational expenditures.
l Strengthening of main management functions. Management functions were to be reinforced at the
    central level (Ministry of Health) and at the peripheral level (regional and district health directorates).
    The sub-component was to finance training in various aspects of management as well as technical
    assistance and recruitment of additional personnel.
l Operational research. This sub-component was intended to respond to a strong demand for the
    development of local research capacity. To this end, it was to finance equipment and material, as well
    as the training needed to develop capacity in collecting, analyzing, and disseminating the results of
    research by national experts, both at the central and regional levels.
l Developing capacity in pharmaceutical sector management. This sub-component funded the
    establishment of a legal and regulatory framework, the development of capacity at the Centrale
    d'achat des médicaments essentiels (CAME) and the supply of drugs to medical infrastructures, as
    well as strengthening the pharmaceutical regulatory framework and better enforcement of regulations
    regarding the sale of illicit drugs. It was also to contribute to skills improvement in accounting and
    financial management.

(D) Strengthening the Partnership for Health (US$1.2 million). This component was to promote a wider
participation of civil society in health and family planning activities. It included two subcomponents:




                                                      - 3 -

l CNEEP/CDEEP. The objective of this subcomponent was to establish and make operational
     cross-sector coordination structures both at the national and regional levels. It was to finance costs
     associated with reporting and two annual meetings, as well as with the institutional strengthening of the
     MOPH departments providing the CNEEP and CDEEP Secretariats.
l COGES, COGEZ, and COGEC. The objective of this subcomponent was to revitalize these structures
     for community dialogue, by periodically funding training courses for their members.

(E) Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.9 million). This component was to support
monitoring and evaluation activities, as well as project management activities carried out by the Ministry of
Health directorates and services. In particular, it was to fund periodic, mid-term, and final evaluations, as
well as surveys of project beneficiaries.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised. However, owing to the slow start of the project, and the unsatisfactory
performance noted in the supervision reports, a detailed review was undertaken in July 1998. Whereas
"Restructuring" was mentioned in the project documents, it was in fact a detailed re-assessment of the
planning, implementation, and monitoring-evaluation processes. The purpose of this review was to validate
the project's objectives and components as well as the letter of sector strategy. As a result, baseline
performance indicators and expected outcomes were established. This review re-examined the project's
action plan, its feasibility, and its alignment with set priorities as well as the country's capacity to achieve
development objectives during the remaining project implementation period. The implementation handbook
was revised to clarify the roles and responsibilities of the various players and to match procurement
requirements.

A first amendment of the credit agreement was signed on June 29, 2000 to include the new procurement
procedures set by the executing agency Agence générale des travaux d' intérêt public (AGETIP).

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry was determined to be generally satisfactory, even in the absence of quantitative
performance indicators. These indicators were set in July 1998, two years after project effectiveness.
During the preparation phase of this project, the Bank had not yet introduced the current procedures for
quality assessment nor the logical framework for monitoring and evaluation. However, a retrospective
analysis using the quality assessment criteria of the QAG determined that project's objectives and design
were appropriate and consistent with the needs of the population and the capacity of the country at the time,
as specified in the CAS document dated June 1994. The design and preparation of the project were based
on :

(i)      the lessons drawn from the first health project in Benin (PDSS, Cr 2031-BEN);
(ii)     the assessment of the 1989-1993 health strategy and its impact on the reorganization of the system:
         (a) the introduction of cost recovery; (b) the setting up of management and health committees
         within the framework of the community participation; (c) the establishment of a central purchasing
         point for Essential Generic Drugs (EGD), and (d) the involvement of all system participants in the
         planning, management, and coordination of the sector;
(iii)    the draft documents of the 1995-1999 health strategy which stressed the reinforcement of sector
         reforms and the improvement of quality, and access to health care services.

The project was prepared by the government with the support of IDA and in close collaboration with the
major partners involved in the sector. The country developed its health policy and reached out to the
various stakeholders for its implementation. The beginning of the project coincided with the completion of



                                                      - 4 -

the demographic and health survey (DHS) of 1996 which helped to determine, in 1998, various health
indicators and a database for future project performance evaluation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the project is rated satisfactory in terms of achieving its objectives with respect to (i) the
implementation of the population policy and the expansion of the family planning program; and (ii)
improvements in the health system performance through the support of three main reforms defined in the
national health sector strategy for the period 1995-1999. But it is worth noting that the project had a very
slow start (two postponements of the effectiveness date) due to implementation delays in the previous IDA
project (Health Services Development Project--PDSS) and it only really reached its planned pace of
execution in the years 1999-2000, following a review in July 1998. The review led to the establishment of
quantitative targets for indicators which had only been defined in the SAR, and to a programming of the
activities as well as the revision of the project implementation manual to take into account the actual
situation of the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH).

With regard to the first specific objective, "Implementation of the population policy and family planning
program," the project contributed to the progress of some of the sixteen general national objectives set by
the government in its population policy statement dated May 2, 1996. Some reproductive health indicators
were improved during the life of the project (Annex 8). Indeed, Chart 1 shows that the modern
contraceptive prevalence rate increased from 3.4 to 7 percent, for the same period between 1996 and 2001.
However, this 7 percent figure is lower than the goal of 11 percent set by the MOPH in 2000 for the end of
the project, but exceeds by two points the expected level at the time of the project review in 1998 (5.5
percent in 2001). Nevertheless, with the improved knowledge base of the country's socioeconomic and
demographic factors over the past five years, a consensus has emerged among Beninese officials about the
demographic and socioeconomic problems of the country and about the need to promote a responsible
fertility policy. Religious authorities were able to moderate their views on the use of condoms and other
contraceptive methods.

As for the second specific objective, "Improvement of the health system performance through the
implementation of three health reforms (Decentralization; Strengthening of health services; Expansion of
the participation of all stakeholders)," some key performance indicators have been improved. More
specifically, the project has contributed to the improvement of some indicators (see Annexes 1 and 8) such
as the rate of deliveries assisted by the trained personnel (54 to 77.4 percent) ; the rate of post-natal care
(from 80.3 to 87.3 percent) and the establishment and operationalization of 13 health centers, which are
fully functional. The CDEEP and CNEEP met regularly. Infant mortality rates (IMR) and under-five child
mortality rates (CMR) (see Chart 2) improved between 1996 and 2001. Although no precisely defined
causal relationship can be established, the environment created by the project likely contributed to these
improvements.




                                                     - 5 -

              Chart 1 : Contraceptive Prevalence Rate           Chart 2 : Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) and Child
                                                                             Mortality Rate (CMR)

                                                                                                    166.5
            20

            18
                                                               200                                                EDS 2001
            16         3.4         7                                              93.9
            14                                                                                                    EDS 1996
            12                                 Modern          150

            10                                 M ethods
       Women 8                                                 100                             160
      %         13.4
             6               11.6              Traditional
                                                                                                                      EDS 1996
             4                                 M ethods                    89.1
                                                                50
             2
                                                                                                              EDS 2001
             0                                                   0
              EDS 1996 EDS 2001                                           IMR               CMR



4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A : Development and Expansion of the Family Planning Programs and Services

The component is rated satisfactory, because the target of 5.5 percent for modern contraceptive prevalence
rate, set in the logical framework in 1998, was exceeded by 1.5 percentage point by 2001 (7 percent). The
revised target of 11 percent, set by the MOPH in 2000, was not reached, because one failed to account for
the low capacity of the sector. The component supported the development and expansion of FP services and
programs through the promotion of the national population policy, the improvement of quality and coverage
of services through the minimum package of activities (MPA), staff training and use of guides/protocols in
reproductive health.

The population policy and the results of surveys, studies, and the use of norms and standards were largely
disseminated through IEC activities. Support for these actions was provided through equipment, logistics,
contraceptive supplies, and by support for the integration of FP in the MPA. The various activities
undertaken by the project in favor of the FP program contributed, inter alia, to the increase in the modern
contraceptive prevalence rate (see Chart 1). This increase was relatively higher in the departments of
Atlantique/Littoral, Borgou/Alibori and Zou/Collines. Birth-spacing, which is recognized as having a
positive influence on mothers' and children's health, also increased, particularly in Cotonou (with an
average of 37.4 months), but also in departments where modern contraceptive prevalence was weak such as
Atacora (average of 33.4 months), thus underscoring the significant role also played by the traditional
contraception methods.

Partners such as UNFPA, USAID, GTZ, WHO and the Netherlands also contributed to the implementation
of the population policy and to the increase in the rate of modern contraceptive prevalence. The
coordination system (CNEEP) set up by the government has played a key role in the allocation of donor
resources between departments (i.e., USAID and GTZ in the North-East, Netherlands in the North-West,
IDA in the South and Coast, WHO and UNFPA to fill the gap). Faced with limited absorptive capacity and
the slow pace of behavioral change in FP, the country made a choice using the resources provided as grants
rather than resorting to borrowing. As a result, the level of credit disbursement of the component is 72
percent.

Component B: Improving the Quality and Efficiency of Priority Health Services

The component is rated satisfactory. The component supported the improvement in the quality and
effectiveness of the primary health care system, through capital improvements consisting of renovation,
new construction, acquisition of equipment, including biomedical equipment (expansion of the MOPH, one



                                                             - 6 -

water analysis laboratory, six DDSP, four subprefecture health centers, four districts hospitals, seven
health centers). The scope of support extended to staff training, the establishment of treatment guidelines
and protocols, referral and counter referral systems. Additionally, there was sustained support for
reproductive health; infant health (vaccination, treatment of acute respiratory infections, fight against
diarrhea, fight against malaria, etc.), nutrition (diagnosis, treatment, prevention and surveillance of the
nutritional status of groups at risk); the control of communicable and parasitic diseases (Tuberculosis, STI,
HIV/AIDS);       trauma equipment; education and community health (IEC); kits for water hygiene
(implementation of the public health code with staff training, laboratory construction, and water analysis).
The component also effected an increase in the immunization coverage rate from 55.6 percent in 1996 to 59
percent in 2001 throughout the country with variations of 57.8 to 64.4 percent in urban areas and of 54.6
to 56.1 percent in rural areas. It enabled the integrated management of childhood illnesses (IMCI). The
campaign against HIV/AIDS (4.1 percent prevalence rate in 2001) received support through the
implementation of preventive activities in collaboration with 42 NGOs, the production of educational
material, and the purchase of screening tests and equipment. The project also supported the preparation of
the multi-sector HIV/AIDS (MAP-IDA) project.

In the context of the health system reform, the project enhanced quality care and the referral system by
investing in institutional capacity-building. New health districts were created. Following a feasibility study,
the project set up the four planned health districts and also contributed to the implementation of nine others
in the country. The 13 health districts are fully functional, equipped, and staffed by personnel trained in the
key areas relevant to district management. These health districts were also involved in strategic
management in their catchments areas and in the supervision of the subprefecture health centers (CSSP).
Seventeen ambulances were provided to hospitals to make the referral and counter referral systems more
effective between district health centers and regional hospitals, and between CSSPs and district hospitals.

The component experienced implementation delays associated with civil works and procurement of
equipment . This in turn required an extension of the closing date for disbursements under category 2
(Equipment and Drugs) of the project to permit the acquisition of necessary equipment for the new medical
institutions (hospital and health centers). The choice of reducing recurrent costs in favor of investments did
have an impact on the implementation of some project activities.

The utilization rate of services increased only slightly from 0.34 visits/caput/annum in 1997 to 0.36 in
2001 in spite of relatively good health coverage in the country (86 percent of the population lives within 5
km radius from a health facility). Possible explanations might be the quality of services delivery, or
physical and financial barriers.

Component C: Strengthening and Streamlining Sector Management and Administration

The component is rated satisfactory. This component has produced an improvement in working conditions
at the central, regional, and subregional levels of the administration. It supported staff training, recruitment
of accountants, the consolidation of the gains achieved through the pharmaceutical policy (legislation and
regulation of the sector, fight against illicit drug sales, stabilization of EGD prices, purchase of EGDs with
a greater accessibility and improved inventory control), and the establishment of management structures at
various levels.

The development of management structures resulted in the creation of four health districts initially planned
and fully supported by the project. The government also decided to create 36 health districts (13 of which
are operational) in the six departments (currently 12 in the new administrative organization). A
management unit in charge of district development has been set up at the central level. The definition of the


                                                        - 7 -

roles and responsibilities of all actors and the improvement of their working conditions were key elements
supported by the project.

Component D: Strengthening the Partnership for Health

The component is rated satisfactory. The participation of stakeholders in the implementation of services
and the evaluation of activities was attained by the reinforcement of partnerships forged to coordinate and
evaluate programs. Structures were established at all levels (CNEEP, CDEEP). Members of the COGES,
COGEC, and COGEZ were cross-trained in primary health care, community participation, leadership
skills, team work, community development techniques, and financial resource management.

The technical direction of the CNEEP resides in the Department of Planning, Coordination, and Evaluation
(DPCE, renamed Department of Planning and Projections--DPP). The funding of meetings and workshops
by the project has enabled the CNEEP and the CDEEP to become operational. However, the closing of the
project, coupled with the government's apparent unwillingness to carry over the funding of these activities,
has compromised this operational capacity. Regarding community structures (COGES, COGEZ, and
COGEC), the election of new members to health committees did not facilitate the participation of
communities in the management of health centers. Indeed, some committee members did not fully
participate in the activities of the centers, either because they lacked motivation, or because they did not
have the required capacity (new members). However, community funding remains increasingly important
as it supports the purchase of drugs, small equipment, and operating costs. It is estimated that the cost
supported by the community funding is approximately 1,850 CFAF (US$2.80) per patient in 2001.

Component E: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation

The component is rated satisfactory. Three departments in the MOPH share the responsibility for
coordinating and implementing the project: DPCE renamed DPP; Directorate of Administrative and
Financial Services--DSAF, renamed Directorate of the Financial Resources and Equipment--DRFM; and
Directorate of Management of Infrastructure, Equipment, and Maintenance--DIEM. The central and
departmental directors coordinate, initiate, and implement project activities. The project director works
within the DPP and has, within the scope of his responsibilities, facilitated the implementation of
departmental activities, and served as liaison between the Bank and the MOPH. For the implementation of
the project, a three-year rolling plan was designed as well as an annual operational plan requiring the
approval of the various partners.

The data collected by the National Health Management and Information System (SNIGS) was used for
monitoring and evaluation, and for benchmarking progress. The CNEEP collected and integrated the
departmental data used for monitoring and evaluation. Project performance reports were prepared and
submitted annually to partners. The logistical support, equipment, and staff training provided by the project
improved the monitoring and supervision. The DRFM oversaw the administrative and financial
management. DIEM assured the procurement and civil works activities, with the support of contractual
employees (accountants, procurement specialist).

The Regional Public Health Departments (DDSP) played a determining role in the planning,
implementation, and monitoring and evaluation of project activities. The steering committees at the central
and departmental levels performed well and established a routine of regular coordination meetings to plan
and monitor project activities. The recruitment of contract employees through contractual arrangements,
particularly accountants, in the Medical Activities Accounting Management Unit (CGAS), of the DDSP as
well as in some health districts, has significantly improved the sector's resource management. This remains,


                                                      - 8 -

however, a fragile investment due to a lack of foresight by the government to prepare an alternative
mechanism to sustain the strategy when the project ends. Bank supervision missions have drawn attention
to this situation.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's impact on institutional development is substantial: four health districts planned in the project
are operational, and nine others have been set up through project support. Thirteen (25 are planned in the
last Project Status Report--PSR) health districts are operational (the number of districts in-country
increased to 36 after a second reform implemented in 2002); a rigorous management system of public
resources by skilled health professionals is in place; CAME improved and EGD are available in the
country. Key activities initiated at project start-up were important, but were later perceived as barriers to
project implementation. Indeed, the coordinating unit is integrated into the departments of the ministry, with
the coordination of the activities under the DPP and fiduciary activities (accounting and procurement)
under the DRFM and the DIEM. Integration was difficult and accepted reluctantly by senior staff at the
central level because roles and responsibilities were ill-defined. Additionally, implementation of the civil
works component, which was initially assigned to the DIEM, was redirected based on practical lessons
from the PDSS. Consequently, the AGETIP (Agence de la gestion de la dimension sociale du
développement--AGDSD and Agence d'exécution des travaux urbain--AGETUR) undertook the building of
health infrastructures.

The project contributed as expected to the health system reform and impacted current and future
development of the sector after the year 2000. Decentralization is a positive element, which led to the
creation of additional departments within the MOPH, the establishment of health districts, and the
reinforcement of partnership structures (CNEEP, CDEEP). The mechanisms of community participation
were also strengthened and an effective institutional support was set up during the life of the project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The implementation of the project relied on a number of factors, some of which were identified during the
preparation phase of the project through risks analysis. One such factor is the use of community funds
derived from cost recovery to fund operating expenses, such as renewal of drug stocks. In fact, community
funds provide now between 90 and 100 percent of the health centers' operating costs, while under the
original Government policy these funds would be used only for drug expenditures.

Prevailing economic conditions during the project affected its implementation. The draw down of credit
allocated in the government's budget averaged 90 percent. A dramatic drop in the currency exchange rate
between the dollar and the CFAF, as well as price inflation of building materials had a negative effect on
the project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1 Positive factors

Benin showed relative stability (two health ministers during the implementation of the project) in contrast to



                                                     - 9 -

the frequent turnover of senior officials in the countries of the region. The stability of the project technical
staff helped mitigate the negative effects of changes in the project leadership (the same coordination team
since inception).

The government showed its commitment to reform through the decentralization of responsibilities, and
resource allocation toward the regions, and the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system. The
reorganization of the government budget was a positive factor in favor of decentralization and increased
resource absorptive capacity by the departments.

The recruitment of contractual personnel, in particular of accountants, through both the project's and
government's funds improved the management capacity of the departments. Additionally, at the time, the
recruitment of 1,271 contractual health care personnel by the government helped alleviate the shortage of
health workers.

A significant factor for the sector was the outstanding job by the CNEEP of coordinating donors' activities
to avoid duplication and ensure equitable allocation of resources. The CNEEP met twice annually. The
government also set up similar structures (CDEEP) at the regional departments' level, which met four
times per year to assess progress achieved not only by the project, but also by the overall sector in the
presence of the stakeholders: departments of the MOPH, clients, donors, NGOs, associations and other
technical ministries.

The increased emphasis on link between the sector and the macroeconomic framework raised the sectors
visibility over the life of the project while providing a good opportunity for tackling the dialogue on sector
counterpart funding and expenditure issues.

5.2.2 Negative factors

Coordinating mechanisms within the MOPH at the start of the project were weak. Some key players
seemed unclear about their roles and communication protocols were not formalized. The government did
not aggressively impose the institutional changes at the outset. What was needed was a rapid integration of
contractual staff into the ministry's workforce, turning over the civil works component to subcontractors
and enforcing management and procurement policies and procedures. These factors were not addressed
until the roles and responsibilities were defined in 1998, two years after the inception of the project.

The establishment of new higher norms and standards increased the cost of equipment and civil works by
requiring more space than estimated during the design phase. Also, the decision to build new infrastructure
rather than renovate existing infrastructure increased costs. Significant delays occurred at some of the
construction sites because the MOPH did not own the land on which it intended to build. This reflects an
inadequate planning process.

Government's resistance to the Bank's insistence on certain actions to improve procurement practices and
to ensure the most appropriate and transparent choices for civil works procurement significantly delayed
implementation.

Especially in the first years of the project, mobilization of counterpart funds was problematic in both timing
and levels. This caused a delay in correct sequencing of implementation activities and seriously affected the
civil works component. Once these funds were secured, they not only enabled the payment of charges
incurred by the project, but also allowed for investments in civil engineering, equipment, and training.




                                                      - 10 -

The pressing desire since the mid-term review to fully disburse project funds before the closing date made
government very eager to complete infrastructure projects and to properly equip them and make them
operational at the risk of failing to apply proper procurement guidelines for purchase of equipment.

The share of health in the general budget dropped from 4.9 percent in 1996 to 2.5 percent in 2001, which
represented 1,634 francs CFAF per capita (i.e., US$2). This budget decrease also affected the
sustainability of the project's activities, although there are indications that the situation may have somewhat
improved for 2002.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The stability and commitment of the implementation team were determining factors in the process. The
project management unit worked closely with IDA, organized the mid-term review, and ensured the timely
submission of audit and progress reports.

The establishment of regional coordinating units with contractual support personnel to handle financial
management has helped decentralize project implementation and empower the regional coordinators
(DDSP).

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project was implemented between 1996 and 2002 at a cost of US$29.53 million, of which IDA
provided US$23.40 million. Funding in the amount of US$6.13 million was provided by the Government of
Benin and local communities. The original project cost estimate was US$ 33.44 million.

With regard to the credit, as shown in the table below, the disbursement level is 99.7 percent. In response
to a government request in February 2002, the credit agreement was amended a second time on June 6,
2002, to enable the construction of two new district hospitals instead of two rehabilitations/extensions. This
amendment, which occurred after the mid-term review, led to an extension of the project closing date to
December 31, 2002, in order to allow for disbursements in category 2, and redistribution of funds among
categories, with an increase of more than 165 percent of the amounts slated for infrastructure (civil works)
and of 53.11 percent for equipment at the expense of incremental recurrent costs.

The implementation of the new norms and standards explains the increase of the cost of civil works.
Government also justified its decision on the grounds that new construction would be more cost-effective
than rehabilitation/extension. It was also planning to use its own resources to replace funds needed to honor
its commitment to finance the recurrent charges and training scholarships. However, this choice did not
yield the expected outcomes as the government experienced significant delays in the disbursement of the
funds as well as in the funding of the recurrent project charges.

Credit Consumption on March 4, 2003 (amounts in SDR)
                                          Adjustment               Allocated
                            Initial                                                               Actual
       Category                          (Amendment        %      (Amendment        Undisb                     %
                          Allocation                                                           Disbursement
                                             2002)                   2002)
CIVIL WORKS                 1,930,000         3,190,000    165%        5,120,000      308,933       4,811,067   94%
FURN/EQMT/VEH/DRUGS         4,180,000         2,220,000     53%        6,400,000       70,086       6,329,914   99%
CONSULT.SERV. & TRG.        5,660,000          (520,000)    -9%        5,140,000       -65,403      5,205,403  101%
INCREM.RECURR.COSTS         5,150,000        (3,910,000)   -76%        1,240,000       -31,651      1,271,651  103%
UNALLOCATED                   980,000          (980,000)  -100%                0            0              0
FUND-A                                                                         0     -227,001         227,001
Total                      17,900,000               -                  17,900,000      54,964      17,845,036 99.69%




                                                        - 11 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Although the project has established the foundations necessary for sustainability, the outcomes it has
achieved are not likely to be sustainable since measures to mitigate the major hurdles described above are
not being implemented. The foundations for sustainability have been laid down by the PHP through the
integration of the project activities into the regular MOPH operations, the decentralization process set up
and applied during the project, the strong community participation in its implementation and the availability
of generic drugs. However, all these achievements will not be sustainable if the government does not find
ways to: (a) increase the utilization rates in health services; (b) fund maintenance costs related to
infrastructure and equipment; (c) support community participation through the funding of meetings and
training; and (d) implement a human resources strategy.

The gap between this project and new support to the sector under a sectoral project or a Poverty
Reeducation Strategy Credit (PRSC) has likely a negative impact on sustaining project outcomes. It is
acknowledged that strong and continuous support from all donors is needed to achieve the sector goals.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project activities were regularly integrated in the existing operations of the MOPH and its regional
divisions thus minimizing attention to special transition needs. The transition considered is a move toward a
programmatic approach (PRSC) within the framework of poverty alleviation. Health will be one of the core
programs targeted under the PRSC. This approach was officially adopted in September 2002 and takes into
account the 2002-2006 sector policy. The approach requires integration in regular national procedures and
monitoring by the government. This may improve existing services by ensuring that investments are
properly maintained, appropriate measures are taken to increase service utilization, and that human and
financial resources are available. In the context of the preparation of the PRSC, the MOPH is in the
process of preparing a Medium-term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) for the sector with technical
assistance provided by the Bank. A Public Expenditure Review (PER) was recently completed. It is
anticipated that the MTEF will serve as a basis for dialogue with the MOF and that all core activities
included in this project will be funded and expanded, including with continued donor support.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance is rated satisfactory, despite some shortcomings and not enough attention being
paid to realism in establishing indicator levels. Project preparation started before the closing of the first
IDA project (PDSS, Cr. 2031-BEN, closed on September 30, 1997). It also coincided with the definition of
the health sector strategy (1995-1999). The team had a strong focus on the needs of the beneficiaries. The
Bank team played a key role in the dialogue with government on the content and the orientation of its
national health plan (i.e., definition of reform; role of civil society; permanency of CAME; decentralization;
multi-sectoral approach to strategic sector management and institutional underpinnings). Pre-appraisal and
appraisal missions were participatory, with an active involvement by the government, population, and
donors. The Bank itself remained firmly involved in the dialogue with the various stakeholders and
provided uninterrupted support, advice, and monitoring that led to a successful start of the project.
However, a funding re-allocation to finance the civil works component in lieu of recurrent costs as
originally planned comes from underestimated costs of works, likely linked to the absence of an architect in
the project appraisal mission.



                                                       - 12 -

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision by the Bank is rated marginally satisfactory. The project was supervised with consistency and
care. The supervision missions were regularly organized (at least twice a year) and produced good quality
documents. They were generally staffed with multidisciplinary teams. However, project supervision has
been carried out by five successive team leaders --the last being based in the field and able to provide a
closer supervision of the project activities. Although hand-over was generally good, the high turnover in
team leaders did not help the management of such a complex project. It should also be noted that budgets
allocated to this activity were not always in line with the needs.

The Bank team proved unable to respond in a timely manner to some of the requests made by project staff,
particularly in the areas of procurement and disbursements. However, recruiting and empowering local
Bank personnel was a good way to address the problem, as it has helped implementation of the project with
relevant outcomes. The recruitment of a procurement specialist in the country office has resulted in a
shortened response time to procurement issues. The Bank's team has worked closely with the MOPH to
develop and implement solutions in response to sector needs.

The Bank demonstrated appropriate flexibility, allowing inter alia for shorter intervals between supervision
missions as needed, and a detailed review of the project in July 1998 that helped respond proactively to
sector needs. The closing date of the project was extended after the mid-term review and priority actions
were funded in order to provide an effective response to the demand for better health care. At mid-term
review, only 35 percent of project funds had been disbursed while project execution was lagging.
Implementation issues were jointly examined with the Borrower and relevant recommendations were made
to improve project implementation and make up for delays in disbursements. The mid-term review (2000)
was also the starting point of a project to fight HIV/AIDS, the definition of the future support of the sector
through the Public Expenditures Reform Adjustment Credit (PERAC), and the utilization of the HIPC
funds.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory because problems encountered during implementation were
generally dealt with in a proactive manner. The team also maintained good relations with the Borrower,
which provided a favorable platform for collaboration in the context of the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP) finalized by the country in December 2002.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The preparation of the project was considered to be satisfactory. The preparation of the PHP has benefited
from experience gained by the Health Services Development Project (PDSS) which also provided resources
to fund some of the preparation activities. The government made competent experts available to work in
close cooperation with the Bank in identifying the objectives and the strategies and designing the project
components. The project was designed to reinforce the health system and to stimulate field activities. The
constant availability of the team during the preparation phase was a key factor of success.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The MOPH's overall performance is rated unsatisfactory, since, especially at the start, the PHP suffered
from the difficulties encountered during the PDSS implementation (reluctance of the government to accept
the Bank's advice, poor management of funds and procurement). In spite of delays in MOPH's measures to
comply with effectiveness conditions (including legal status of the central drug procurement agency, hire
qualified staff, and set low prices for drugs in the context of cost recovery, etc.), resulting in the



                                                     - 13 -

postponement of the starting date from September 30, 1995 to July 17, 1996, its efforts since 1998 have
led to significant improvements in the programming of activities and in financial and accounting
management. The mid-term review also offered an opportunity for the government to make a critical
analysis of the risks and to plan more realistically. Recommendations and decisions have been formulated
to address identified constraints. In spite of some difficulties in coordinating the government's agencies and
external partners, the government has used the project resources well in order to meet the sector needs and
to supplement interventions by other programs and partners in the field.

The steering committees (at the central and departmental levels) have been established and are functional,
resulting in a satisfactory coordination and supervision of project activities. Stability of the incumbent at
the post of Minister of Public Health (two were appointed during the seven year project life) has also been
a favorable factor of compliance with commitments and of focused implementation of project objectives

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency is rated satisfactory. The very slow start of the project was
due to a lack of understanding by the actors of their roles and responsibilities and to the absence of
appropriate expertise in some of the key functions of the project. The reinforcement of the coordination
team through the recruitment of a procurement specialist and of accountants, made it possible for the
project to accelerate execution since 1998.

The staffing of the Project Management Unit remained unchanged throughout PHP execution. Despite
difficulties experienced in coordination at the very beginning of the project, its staff knew how to work well
within the institutional framework, developed harmonious relationships with MOPH directorates, and
carried out the monitoring and evaluation of activities undertaken by the different ministry coordinators,
with a positive influence on the project implementation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance is rated marginally unsatisfactory. Indeed, although the Ministry has
demonstrated a strong commitment, particularly since 1998, to eliminating project implementation
constraints, monitoring and evaluating project outcome, and ensuring stability in project management
personnel, the negative aspects discussed in section 5.2.2 outweigh the above mentioned positive steps.
Government failure to create guarantees for sustaining project achievements, in terms of organizational
structure and budget allocation, also contributes to the unsatisfactory rating.

8. Lessons Learned

Implementing the project has brought important results in the context of health sector reform and difficult
economic circumstances. Key lessons learned can be summarized as follows:

l To prevent important delays during execution, a good understanding of the roles and responsibilities of
    all actors at the start of project implementation is crucial.

l Key factors of success, such as civil society, in particular beneficiaries', involvement in project
    preparation and implementation, and accountability through the revitalization of their community
    participation structures (COGEZ, COGES, COGEC), as well as establishing partnership structures
    (CNEEP, CDEEP), improve the sustainability of project achievements. Therefore, it is crucial that
    support for these structures be maintained.

l Having financial professionals monitor and implement financial management procedures strongly




                                                     - 14 -

    increases the likelihood of project success. In the context of the PHP, accounting managers were
    recruited in some of the district health centers to do their accounting. Previously, these activities were
    carried out by nurses and other health staff, in addition to their healthcare duties, an entirely different
    type of activity. From being structurally in the red, the centers moved into a position in which they
    created a financial surplus, thanks to the quality of the accounting staff and to enhanced internal
    control. The evidence in favor of the use of professional accountants is so strong that the government
    recruited accountants for other district health centers. This effort needs to be sustained.

l An appropriate level of competency in and, more importantly, compliance with procurement procedures
    promoting competition have a positive impact on the project. By retaining two executing agencies for
    the implementation of the civil works component, the PHP has significantly improved the quality of
    works.

l A policy emphasizing local development, including a devolution of planning, monitoring and evaluation
    responsibilities at the regional level improves coordination in a countrywide project. In the PHP,
    decentralizing the project and making regional Public Health Directorates more accountable in the
    planning, monitoring, and evaluation of activities financed under the project had a positive impact,
    particularly because regional coordinators were also responsible for the direct payment of expenditures
    in accordance with the annual program adopted at the beginning of each year.

l Appropriate coordination of foreign assistance helps allocate resources more efficiently. In the context
    of the PSP, emphasis on complementarities between development partners with respect to the financing
    of activities, and MOPH's strategic priority on the use of grants (instead of credits) to finance field
    activities (e.g., family planning) have resulted in better resource allocation. Hence, the project was able
    to act as a lender of last resort due to flexible implementation-promoting complementarities and
    synergies among programs and partners.

l Making project interventions sustainable remains a major challenge that will require a long-term
    commitment from donors and the Bank. The 5-year horizon of a project is often too short to guarantee
    this.

l Project investment hardly led to increased use of the health services. Likely, more resources need to be
    allocated to the sector to ensure that programs are implemented in a cost-effective fashion and that
    vulnerable groups are not excluded from the health system because of cost recovery policies at health
    centers. MOPH should conduct studies and surveys needed to ensure that equity issues are properly
    accounted for in the reform of the health system.

l Certainly quality infrastructure and technical equipment are key project achievements. However, the
    major challenge for the MOPH is to raise the usage level of services and to provide quality health care
    to beneficiaries. Analyses and research are also needed to identify the bottlenecks responsible for the
    current low usage level (0.36 visits/caput/annum) and to find appropriate solutions.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
An English summary of Government's Project Evaluation Report is presented in Annex 9.

The following comments were received from the MOPH on the Bank's ICR (we provide the litteral English
translation):



                                                     - 15 -

Comments from the Ministry of Public Health on the "Health and Population" Project
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

7.5 Government implementation performance (performance of Ministry of Public Health during
implementation)

7.7. Overall Borrower performance.

These were assessed (in the ICR) as non satisfactory. However, as mentioned in the ICR with respect to
the Implementing Agency, the slow start of the Project was caused by the absence of the Procurement
Specialist in the Implementing Unit to manage the Civil Works Component (this was not specified during
project preparation).

- Therefore, after further study and consideration, the Ministry has accepted:

l To hire two agencies to implement the Civil Works Component. This took some time because initially
    the World Bank wanted to select AGETUR whereas the Ministry has proposed the selection of
    AGETUR and AGDSD. Finally, after negotiations between the Ministry and the World Bank, the two
    agencies were selected on a trial basis for a first phase. After evaluation, their performance was
    deemed satisfactory and their contracts were extended for a second phase.
    The choice of two agencies finally proved beneficial because it had created a competitive environment
    and had enabled to perform the work in a rather short time since the two agencies could share the work.

l To hire a Procurement Specialist to implement the other Project components than the Civil Works. The
    hiring has taken the necessary time according to the Bank regulations and Guidelines.

- The Ministry was able to keep the Unit in place throughout the entire duration of the project
implementation.

- The Ministry was able to mobilize the counterpart funding necessary for the execution of activities, even
though the provision of funds by the Ministry of Finances and Economy was late.

- This counterpart funding was even increased by 50% after the reallocation of Credit funds had shown that
Credit funds were insufficient to cover the remaining commitments. This has enabled the project to be
executed fully and under acceptable financial conditions.

- The Ministry has also accepted that the PSP intensifies the fight against HIV/AIDS for an amount of
more than one billion FCFA as well as the earmarking of an important amount to prepare for the PPLS
Project and help determine the future assistance to the sector through the Public Expenditures Adjustment
Credit.

Keeping in mind all these elements, the performance of the Ministry is deemed to be globally satisfactory.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):



                                                     - 16 -

Not Applicable.

10. Additional Information

The Borrower organized a workshop from April 16 to 18, 2003 to discuss project outcomes with respect to
sociological studies results, civil works, training, and epidemiology. The Borrower's own assessment has
been summarized in the government's version of the implementation completion report that was also
presented and discussed during the workshop attended by all actors in the sector, international development
partners, and beneficiary communities. There was a consensus among all stakeholders that the project had
succeeded in providing the foundations of a sustainable development for the sector.




                                                     - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                             1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
Implementation rate of population program:     90%                                100%

Annual mass media time of tested messages 120 hours                               120
related to population and family planning:

Percent of WRA using family planning           50%                                46%
services: at least one method

Infant Mortality Rate                          75 per 1000 live births            89.1

Number of regional health directorates         6                                  6
("DDS") that implement key decentralized
managerial functions:

Number of health districts ( "zones            25                                 13
sanitaires" or "ZS") that are operating
according to standards and decentralized
managerial procedures:




Output Indicators:
                                                                             1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
Contraceptive prevalence rate (OC, IUD,        11%                                7%
Injectable and Norplant).
Percent of fully immunized under 5-year old. 80%                                  68%
Percent of patients at each level of health    36%                                34%
system who have received timely treatment,
out of those who were referred.
Number of medicine molecule checked for        380                                254
quality assurance.
Percent of community-based structures          100% of health facilities          100% of health facilities
(COGEC, COGES, COGEZ) that are
operational, out of those that were officially
started.

1End of project




                                                                 - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                      Component                            US$ million   US$ million
A. Development and Expansion of Family Planning               2.28            2.95         129.39
Programs and Services
B. Improving Quality and Efficiency of Priority Health       10.98            9.69          88.25
Services
C. Strengthening and Streamlining Sector Management and      12.07          16.31          135.13
Administration
D. Strengthening the Partnership for Health                   0.87            0.27          31.03
E. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation              0.80            0.31          38.75

Total Baseline Cost                                          27.00          29.53
 Physical Contingencies                                       2.00
 Price Contingencies                                          4.44
                         Total Project Costs                 33.44          29.53
                  Total Financing Required                   33.44          29.53


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB               2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                            0.00             3.40         0.20         0.00         3.60
                                   (0.00)           (2.70)      (0.20)         (0.00)      (2.90)
2. Goods                            5.90             1.40         1.50         0.00         8.80
                                   (4.80)           (1.10)      (1.00)         (0.00)      (6.90)
3. Services                         0.00             0.00         4.10         0.00         4.10
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (3.70)         (0.00)      (3.70)
4. Training                         0.00             0.00         7.60         0.00         7.60
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (6.30)         (0.00)      (6.30)
5. Incremental Recurrent            0.00             0.00         9.30         0.00         9.30
Costs                              (0.00)           (0.00)      (8.00)         (0.00)      (8.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
   Total                            5.90             4.80        22.70         0.00        33.40
                                   (4.80)           (3.80)      (19.20)        (0.00)     (27.80)




                                                 - 19 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00              10.21              0.04             0.00             10.25
                                           (0.00)             (6.12)            (0.03)            (0.00)           (6.15)
   2. Goods                                 6.10               0.69              3.17             0.00              9.96
                                           (5.00)             (0.60)            (2.93)            (0.00)           (8.53)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              1.18             0.00              1.18
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.10)            (0.00)           (1.10)
   4. Training                              0.00               0.00              6.00             0.00              6.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (5.70)            (0.00)           (5.70)
   5. Incremental Recurrent                 0.00               0.00              2.14             0.00              2.14
   Costs                                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.67)            (0.00)           (1.67)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                6.10              10.90             12.53             0.00             29.53
                                           (5.00)             (6.72)           (11.43)            (0.00)           (23.15)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
A. Development and              2.40         0.40                     1.79         1.16                  74.6     290.0
Expansion of Family
Planning Programs and
Services
B. Improving Quality and       11.60         1.90                     8.03         1.66                  69.2      87.4
Efficiency of Priority
Health Services
C. Strengthening and           12.80         2.20                    12.78         3.53                  99.8     160.5
Streamlining Sector
Management and
Administration
D. Strengthening the            0.20         1.00                     0.27         0.01                  135.0     1.0
Partnership for Health
E. Project Management,          0.80         0.10                     0.28         0.02                  35.0      20.0
Monitoring and Evaluation




                                                           - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/1994                   7    PHN SPEC. ; PUB. HEALTH
                                             SPEC. ; SR PUB. HEALTH
                                             SPEC. ; OPER. OFFICER ;
                                             MANAG. SPEC. (2) ; UNICEF
                                             CONS.

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/1995                   4    CONS. ; SR PHN SPEC. ;
                                             RES.REP. ; SR OPER.
                                             OFFICER

 Supervision
              07/15/1996                2    PHN SPECIALIST;                  S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST
              10/21/1996                4    MISSION LEADER;                  S               S
                                             ARCHITECT/CONSULTANT;
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST;
                                             PHARMACIST/CONSULTANT.
              06/06/1997                5    MISSION LEADER/POLICY;           U               U
                                             CONS/ARCHITECT;
                                             CONS./MANAGEMENT;
                                             TASK ASSISTANT;
                                             CONS./PUBLIC HEALTH.
              12/15/1997                3    MISSION LEADER;                  U               U
                                             CONS./MANAGEMENT;
                                             CONS./REPRODUCT.
                                             HEALTH.
              05/06/1998                6    MISSION LEADER/PHN SPE.          U               U
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST;
                                             LANG. TEAM ASSISTANT;
                                             CONS./ARCHITECT;
                                             CONS./MANAGEMENT;
                                             CONS./REPRODUCT.
                                             HEALTH.
              07/15/1998                3    TASK TEAM LEADER;                U               U
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH;
                                             CLUSTER TEAM LEADER.
              11/13/1998                2    TASK TEAM LEADER;                U               S
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH.
              05/02/1999                3    TASK TEAM LEADER;                S               S
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH;
                                             CONSULTANT.
              12/09/1999                1    PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC.              S               S
              06/29/2000                6    TASK TEAM LEADER;                S               S
                                             DISB. ASSISTANT;
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST;



                                              - 22 -

                                            STAFF ASSISTANT (2).
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER
               07/19/2001              5    TASK TEAM LEADER;                 S    S
                                            HEALTH SPECIALIST;
                                            FIN. MGT SPECIALIST;
                                            DISB. ASSISTANT;
                                            LEAD AG. SPECIALIST.
               12/14/2001              5    TASK TEAM LEADER;                 S    S
                                            HEALTH SPECIALIST;
                                            FIN. MAN. SPECIALIST;
                                            DISB. ASSISTANT;
                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST.
               04/26/2002              5    SR HEALTH SPECIALIST(2) ;         S    S
                                            FIN. MAN. SPECIALIST;
                                            DISB. ASSISTANT;
                                            PUB. HEALTH SPECIALIST.
               10/05/2002              3    HEALTH SPECIALIST;                S    S
                                            PROC. ANALYST;
                                            DISB. ASSISTANT.

 ICR
               03/10/2003             6     SR HEALTH SPEC. (2) ;             S    S
                                            SR PUB. HEALTH SPEC. ;
                                            ACS (2); CONSUL.



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            67.3                         193.4
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 72.2                         212.2
  Supervision                            382                         997.2
  ICR                                      16                           25
  Total                                537.5                        1427.8




                                            - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA
Community development and Partnership




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

République du Bénin, MSPSCF, Politiques et Stratégies Nationales de développement du secteur santé,
1997-2001 ; mars 1997.

République du Bénin, MSP, Politiques et Stratégies Nationales de développement du secteur santé,
2002-2006, novembre 2002.

Ministère de la Santé Publique, Projet santé et Population, Etude de faisabilité de l'implantation des
zones sanitaires dans l'atlantique, Rapport final, octobre 1999.

Ministère du Plan, de la Restructuration Economique et de la Promotion de l'Emploi, Bénin, Déclaration
de Politique de Population, juillet 1996.

Organisation du Système des Nations Unies au Bénin, Plan cadre des Nations Unies pour l'Assistance
au développement du Bénin, 2004-2008, 14 janvier 2003.

Republic of Benin, Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper 2003-2005, December 2002

République du Bénin, Enquête Démographique et de Santé au Bénin, avril 1997.

République du Bénin, Enquête Démographique et de Santé au Bénin, juin 2001.

République du Bénin, Programme national de lutte contre le SIDA/IST, Cadre Stratégique National de
lutte contre le VIH/SIDA/IST au Bénin, décembre 2000.

MCCAG-PD & FNUAP, Population et Développement : Quels défis pour le Bénin ?. Rapport sur l'état et
le devenir de la population du Bénin, décembre 2001.

MSP, Evaluation Finale du Projet Santé et Population ­ Etude Epidémiologique, mars 2003.

Ministère de la Santé Publique, Annuaires des Statistiques sanitaires 1999, 2000, 2001.
Aide-memoir of Mid-term Review of PDSS and Launch workshop for PSP, October 8, 1996.

Aide-memoir of supervision mission, May 22 ­ June 6, 1997

Aide-memoir of supervision mission, December 8-15, 1997

Aide-memoir of supervision mission, March 11-16, 1998

Aide-memoir of supervision mission, April 25 ­ May 6, 1998

Aide-memoir of supervision mission, June 28 ­ July 11, 1998

Aide-memoir of supervision mission, November 1 ­ 13 , 1998

Aide-memoir of supervision mission, April 20 - May 2, 1999

Aide-memoir of Mid-term Review, June 19-29, 2000

Aide-memoir of supervision mission, July 10-19, 2001

Aide-memoir of supervision mission, December 10-14, 2001

Aide-memoir of supervision mission, April 19- 26, 2002



                                                    - 26 -

MSP, PSP, Mission d'achèvement : évaluation finale du volet Génie Civil, 3-15 juin 2002.

Memo, FY00 Quality of supervision Assessment, October 19, 2000.

PSP, MSPSCF, Manuel d'exécution du Projet, juillet 1996.

MSP, Politique de tarification des prestations de soins et des Médicaments Essentiels sous nom
génériques, 1998-2001, Avant projet de juin 1998.

MSP/DPP, Bilan du premier semestre 1998 des activités du PSP, 28 juillet 1998.

PSP, Rapport d'avancement du projet, 3eme trimestre 1998.

PSP, Rapport du bilan physique et financier à l'évaluation à mi-parcours du projet santé et population,
juin 2000.

PSP, Bilan d'exécution du PSP au 27/12/1998.

MSP, PSP, Rapport général de l'Evaluation à mi-parcours du PSP, juin 2000.

World Bank, Report No. 17963-BEN            - Implementation Completion Report - Health Services
Development Project (Credit 2031-BEN), May 28, 1998.

MSP/DRFM/PSP, Mission d'évaluation du volte Génie Civil, Rapport intermédiaire, avril 2003.

MSP/PSP, Evaluation finale du projet Santé et Population, Etude Epidémiologique. Rapport d'évaluation,
mars 2003.

MSP/PSP, Evaluation Finale du Projet santé et Population ­ Etude Sociologique, Rapport Provisoire du
CREDESA, avril 2003.

MSP/PSP, Evaluation des formations de courtes et longues durées, avril 2003.




                                                - 27 -

Additional Annex 8. Reproductive health Indicators and the financing of the health sector

 Trends in population and Family Planning indicators

                          Indicators                                1996    2001
        Reproductive Health Knowledge Indicators
Percentage of men with partners knowing at least one
modern contraceptive method
                                                         All men    93,8    95,3
                                                     Urban Men      95,5    96,4
                                                      Rural Men     92,8    94,6
Percentage of women with partners knowing at least one
modern contraceptive method
                                                     All women      76,2    90,7
                                                  Urban women       83,6    94,6
                                                   Rural women      72,3    88,7
         Reproductive Health Attitudes Indicators
Percentage of men wanting to have less than 4 children
                                                         All men    16,1    15,7
                                          Men with no children      25,5    22,0
Percentage of couples in which both man & woman agree with
family planning
                                                     All couples    29,9    51,6
        Reproductive Health Behavioral Indicators
Percentage of men with partners who actually use a                  37,7    33,5
contraceptive method
Percentage of women with partners who actually use a
contraceptive method
                                                     All women      16,8    18,6
                                                  Urban women       19,0    21,1
                                                   Rural women      15,0    17,3
Percentage of women with partners who actually use a modern         3,4      4,2
contraceptive method
Rate of post-natal care                                             80.3    87.3
Deliveries assisted by the trained personnel                         54     77.4
     Reproductive Health Knowledge, Attitudes And
                Behavioral Impact Indicators
Percentage of 15- to 19-year-old girls that had at least one
child or was pregnant with at least one child
                                             All adolescent girls    26     21,5
                              Adolescent girls with no schooling    34,5    32,6
                        Adolescent girls with primary education     19,0    15,0
           Adolescent girls with secondary or higher education      2,8      4,9
Average birth interval
                                                     All women      33,8    34,7
                                            Women from 15-19        32,6    28,4
                                            Women from 20-24        32,3    33,0
                                            Women from 25-29        34,7    36,2
                                         Women of 40 and plus       36,4    36,0
                                                  Urban women       34,8    35,8



                                                       - 28 -

                                                     Rural women          33,5             34,3
 Total fertility rate (actual)                                            6,32             5,6
 Crude birth rate                                                         42,4             41,1
 Prevalence of modern contraceptives by department
                                                   Atacora/Donga           2,7             4,0
                                               Atlantique/Littoral         5,0             10,0
                                                   Borgou/Alibori          2,5             8,3
                                                     Mono/Couffo           1,8             4,2
                                                   Ouémé/Plateau           4,1             6,9
                                                   Zou/Collines            4,4             7,4
  Sources : DHS 1996; DHS 2001.

Others Indicators of the logical framework stemming from the review of the project in 1998

                                     Indicators                                       1996     2001
Life expectancy at birth (in years)                                                    53      52,3
Natural population growth rate (per 1,000 inhabitants and per year)                    3.2     2.75
Number of maternal deaths in the maternities (per 100,000 live births and per year)   498
Infant mortality quotient during the past five years (1q0)                            93.9     89,1
Child mortality quotient during the past five years (5q1)                              80      77,8
Child mortality quotient during the past five years (5q1)                             166,5    160,0
Average number of malaria cases among children under 12 months (per 100 children       32       34
and per year)
Percentage of children under 50 months who suffered from fever during the last 2       54      41.27
weeks before the survey
Average number of diarrhea disease cases among children between 12 and 47 months      12,1      3
of age (per 100 children and per year)
Total fertility rate                                                                   6,1      5,6
Number of annual live births (per 1,000 of women between 19 and 49 years of age)      213      193
Average inter-genesic interval (in months)                                            33,8     34,7
Percentage of women aged 15 to 49 years having access to FP services                   25       60
Modern contraception prevalence rate (per 100 women aged 15 to 49 years)               3,4      7,0
Modern and traditional contraception prevalence rates (per 100 women aged 15 to 49    16,8     18,6
years)
Percentage of married and unmarried men who use condoms                               10,1
Percentage of referred cases which received timely treatment                           20       34
Percentage of children under 5 fully immunized                                        55.6      59
Percentage of adequately assisted birthing                                             54      77,4
Number of health districts which operated following the national standards of DDS      11       12
management during the past 12 months
Rate of achievement of the population program action plan (in %)                       50       64
Percentage of mothers who practice exclusive breast feeding during the first 4 months  18      18,7

Percentage of medicine sale or distribution points inspected by the Directorate of     10       20
Pharmacies during the past few months
Number of CNEEP sessions during the past 12 months                                     0        2
Number of CDEEP sessions during the past 12 months                                     0       24
Sources : EDS 1996 ; EDS 2001, Rapports du Ministère de la Santé Publique.




                                                        - 29 -

         Services Utilization Rate ­ Average by department in 2001

 Alibori     Atacora          Atlantique Borgou      Collines     Couffo    Donga     Littoral  Mono   Ouémé    Plateau   Zou
  36%         30%               27%       68%         35%          13%       22%       43%      23%    43%      23%       36%
Source : Annuaire Statistique MSP - 2001.

           Trends in Community Participation and Health Budget Indicators (in CFA F)

           A. Community Participation
                                                               1999                     2000                 2001
           Income                                          2,385,171,180            2,653,681,081        2,933,330,474
           Income by disease incident                          1,165                    1,262                1,859
           Expenses                                        2,406,870,758            2,541,176,702        2,713,416,206
           Expense by disease incident                         1,176                    1,208                1,859
           Sources : Annuaires des statistiques sanitaires, 1999, 2000, 2001. MSP - BENIN

           B. Changes in share of Health Budget

                                     Changes in share of health budget in National Budget

                           8
                           7                                              6.8         6.7
                           6

                           5                 4.9            4.9                                   5.1

                           4       4.1

                           3
                                                                                                           2.6         2.5
                 Percentage2

                           1
                           0
                               1994       1995          1996         1997         1998         1999     2000       2001




                                                                     - 30 -

Additional Annex 9. English Summary Borrower/Implementation Agency

                                POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
                           English summary of Borrower's Completion Report

Introduction:

The Population and Health Project (PHP) was the second IDA project in Benin and was to assist the
Government of Benin (GOB) in implementing the National Health Strategy and the National Population
Strategy. The general objectives of the project were to increase the well-being of the population targeting
especially the most vulnerable.

Project Components:

5 components were identified:
- Development and Expansion of Family Planning programs and services
- Improving the quality and efficiency of Priority health Services
- Strengthening and Streamlining Sector Management and Administration
- Strengthening the Partnership for health
- Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation

The project was to be financed by IDA (US$ 27.8 million), the GOB (US$ 5.1 million) and the
beneficiaries (US$ 0.5 million), for a total of US$ 33.4 million.

Project Implementation:

Civil Works:

There were differences between the planned activities and the ones implemented which can be explained as
follows:
1) District Hospitals: it was planned to rehabilitate and convert 4 Sub-Prefecture Health Centers (SPHC)
into district hospitals but instead 2 rehab-conversions were done and 2 new constructions since there was
no space to rehabilitate/convert as such activities required expansions of the facility;
2) SPHC: Out of 4 planned, only 3 were rehabilitated and 1 built (also for lack of space as explained
above);
3) Health Centers: It was planned to build 10 Health Centers but only 5 underwent construction and got
rehabilitated. The remaining 3 were taken up by other Donors before the PHP implementation started;
4) Regional Departments of Public Health: 5 were built by IDA and 1 by the ADB, reaching the planned
number of 6 decided during project preparation

Furniture and Equipment:

Vehicles: The project provided 23 4x4s, 17 pick-ups, 6 light-weight vehicles, 15 ambulances, 275
motorcycles and 173 motorized bicycles which enhanced delivery of health services.

Medico-technical equipment: All health centers are equipped with medico-technical equipment, cold chains
and equipment to battle HIV/AIDS.




                                                     - 31 -

Medication and Vaccines: Stocks of generic drugs have been purchased nationwide for health centers in
need and for all the rehabilitated or newly built health facilities financed by this project. Also, vaccines to
prevent communicable diseases (maladie PEV) and contraceptives were purchased under the credit.

Office furniture and equipment: Office equipment and furniture was purchased to provide adequate
working tools to the different directorates, district hospitals, Ministry of Plan and other departments
involved in the health sector.

IEC Material: Audio-visual material was purchased and used in health training sessions in the 6
departments

Studies and Trainings: The project financed the following types of studies: a) Studies to shed more light on
Sector Problems, b) Project evaluation studies and, c) Service delivery studies. 249 health workers
benefited from trainings which contributed to ongoing training efforts as well as becoming specialized in
certain areas.

Financial Management:

IDA disbursed 99.69%, while GOB disbursed 150% which can be explained by the fact that after the
reallocation of proceeds, it was realized that the remaining IDA funds would not cover activities for which
funding was still needed (i.e. civil works, medico-technical equipment, drugs). Therefore, GOB was to pay
for the remaining expenses in connection with the ongoing civil works and 20% of the cost of the equipment
which was originally to be entirely financed by IDA. The beneficiaries' contribution was more theoretical
since their mode of contribution was never really defined. However, for certain infrastructures, fences were
financed by the beneficiaries.

The increase in civil works expenditures (185% more than initially planned) can be attributed to the
underestimation of the initial unit costs, to inflation, to the approval of new norms and standards for health
facilities by the Ministry of Health during the life of the project, to larger construction sites, to the decision
to use independent agencies for civil works execution and new constructions rather than rehabilitations

The initial unit costs for equipment and furniture were also underestimated, which led a price increase of
about 13%. Furthermore contributing to this increase were inflation, increase of equipment for the new
district hospitals in light of the new norms and renewal of 95% of the entire national cold chain when at the
beginning only a partial renewal had been envisaged.

Project Duration:

The project lasted 6.5 years which incl. 2 extensions. After the first extension, categories 1, 3 and 4 were
closed, leaving only category 2 open until December 31, 2002 to pay for the installation of the
medico-technical equipment needed in the health facilities. It should be noted that during the first 2 years of
implementation, the Ministry of Health (MOH) did not have the technical capacity to implement project
activities. MOH then finally agreed to delegate such activities to the independent civil works agencies
(AGETUR and AGDSD) and to recruit a Procurement Specialist.

Difficulties faced:

Benin's side:
- delay in drawing up the budget program => difficulty in determining counterpart funds to be included in


                                                      - 32 -

the National budget which resulted in slowing down of project implementation at the beginning of each
year;
- delay in mobilizing counter-part funds (average of 4 months each year);
- inability to approve the planning software PLANIF has led to difficulties in finalizing the action plan;
- delay by the MOH in approving the approach of delegated civil works execution which was proposed by
the Bank (it took 20 months for this to be approved);
- delay (2 years) in recruiting a Procurement Specialist even thought the MOH lacked the technical
capacity;
- additional delays due to having to present some procurement document to the National Procurement
Committee for approval before being submitted to IDA for review. This has added an average of 2.5
months to the processing time;
- slow treatment of documents/packages;
- Lack of a management system for foreign scholarships;
- Lack of ownership from the communities when it comes to building wall fences;
- Lack of documents establishing land rights for the MOH.

Bank's side:
- delay in issuing certain non-objections => slowing down implementation;
- high TTL turn-over (5 TTLs in 6.5 years).

Suggestions and Perspectives:

The MOH suggests that an additional financing mechanism be put in place in addition to the PRSC in order
to help sustain the achievements of the project.

Conclusions:

It needs to be noted that this project was the first attempt to a decentralized project management approach
and had a significant impact on assisting in reorganizing the national health pyramid. Several organizations
and committees enjoyed the benefit of training resulting in better performing and better quality health
services, allowing also to make changes to the service delivery system as they went. The project also
contributed to a strong synergy between the different actors.

The construction or rehabilitation of the different health facilities, as well as the material destined for them,
have contributed to the improvement of the quality and efficiency of health service delivery at the peripheral
level.

The innovative approach of involving both health staff and members of the community in managing the
facilities can be attributed to the project, to help sustain achievements of this project.

The population also stated that another effect of the training programs was that the health staff seemed
more welcoming, available, courteous and competent which led to an increase in visits. However, there still
remain a few constraints at the peripheral level as old habits seem to continue, like the illicit sell of drugs
and excess treatment charges.

The project has also contributed to the creation, the functioning and the strengthening of the two
committees (CNEEP and CDEEP), two structures that proved to be powerful planning utensils that the
Ministry could hardly by-pass. However, it is suggested to alleviate their work load to make them better
functioning.


                                                       - 33 -

- 34 -

