Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13610-UG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
MAY 9, 1995
Public and Private Enterprise Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =        Uganda Shilling (U  Sh)
US$1.00                =        U Sh 918.17
U Sh 1.00              =        US$0.00109
US$1.00                =        SDR 0.68529
SDR 1.00               =        US$1.45924
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBP                  Capacity Building Plan
CBS                  Capacity Building Secretariat
CLE                  Continuing Legal Education
CSR                  Civil Service Reform
DANIDA               Danish International Development Assistance
GOU                  Government of Uganda
ICPAU                Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Uganda
MFEP                 Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MJCA                 Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs
MLG                  Ministry of Local Government
MPS                  Ministry of Public Service
NRM                  National Resistance Movement
ODA                  Overseas Development Administration of the United Kingdom
PSRRC                Public Service Review  and Reorganization Commission
RC                   Resistance Council
ROM                  Results Oriented Management
TA                   Technical Assistance
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
USAID                United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
This report is prepared by IDA in collaboration with the Government of Uganda. The IDA team members consisted of Mr. G.
Tata (Task Manager), Mr. 1. Knapp and Mr. P. Langseth (Sr. Public Sector Management Specialists), Mr. J. Ford (Sr.
Economist), Mr. A. Zerabruk (Sr. Legal Counsel), Ms. L. Masutti (Country Officer),Ms. S. Johnson (Consultant - Accountancy
and Auditing) and Mr. S. Nogxina (Intern Legal Department). The GOU team members consisted of Ms. M. Muduuli (GOU
Task Manager) and Mr. F. Tumuheirwe (Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning); Ms. D. Katuramu and Mr. G. Okutho
(Ministry of Public Service); Mr. F. Lubanga and Mr. E. Mugabi (Ministry of Local Government); Mr. D. Byamugisha
(Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs); and Mr. G. Egaddu (Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Uganda). The
team was assisted in preparation of this document by Ms. M. Fiat (Consultant) and Ms. H. Voelker (Sr. Staff Assistant). The
Lead Advisor is Mr. E. Mbi and Peer Reviewers are Mr. 0. Adamolekun, Ms. E. Adu, Mr. N. Colletta and Mr. L. Roberts.
The Sector Division Chief is Mr. R. E. Hindle and the Acting Country Director is Mr. Michael F. Carter.



REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ...................................  iii
SECTION I - SECTOR BACKGROUND   ................................... 1
A.         Technical Assistance and Capacity  Building    ...........................  1
B.   Overview .                        ................................................ 1
C.         Capacity  Building  in the Civil Service                   ..............................  2
D.         Uganda Policy  on Technical Assistance   ..............................  4
E.         Uganda Capacity  Building  Plan   ...................................  5
F.         IDA's Previous Role and  Lessons Learned   ............................  8
G.         Rationale for IDA  Involvement  ...................................  9
SECTION II - THE PROJECT   ........................................  10
A.         Project Objectives   ..........................................    10
B.         Summary  Project Description   ...................................   10
C.         Detailed  Project Description   ....................................   11
D.         Participatory  Approach  to Project Preparation   .........................   17
E.         Project Cost and  Financing  Plan    .................................   18
F.         Project Implementation   .......................................    19
G.         Procurement  ..............  ...............................    21
H.    Disbursements ............................................. 23
1.         Accounting, Auditing and Reporting   ...............................   24
J.         Supervision Plan   ...........................................   26
K.         Environmental Impact  ........................................   26
L.         Benefits and  Risks   ..........................................   26
SECTION III - AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....                                                                         ........ 28
Tables in the Main Text
1.  Project Cost Summary  .............................................   18
2. Financing Plan  .                     ................................................  19
3. Procurement .                   ..................................................  23
4. Disbursements . .................................................. 24



ii
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Letter of Sector Policy
Annex 2 - Implementation Schedules
Annex 3 - Summary Monitoring Indicators
Annex 4 - Project Costs
Annex 5 - Supervision Plan
Annex 6 - Project Implementation Structure
Annex 7 - Central Government Capacity Building Component
Annex 8 - Local Government Capacity Building Component
Annex 9 - Legal Sector Reform Component
Annex 10 - Accountancy Strengthening Component
Annex 11 - Training Funds Component
Annex 12 - Outline of the Implementation Manual
Annex 13 - Documents in the Project File



iii
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Republic of Uganda
Implementing Agencies:     Ministry of Public Service, Ministry of Local Government, Ministry
of Justice and Constitutional Affairs, Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning, Institute of Certified Public Accountants of
Uganda
Beneficiaries:             Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Uganda, Local
Governments from Local Government Capacity Building component
and Private Sector organizations from Training Funds component
Poverty:                   Not applicable.
Amount:                    SDR 25.0 million (US$36.4 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Standard, with 40 years maturity
Financing Plan:            See para. 2.39
Map:                      IBRD 26454
Project Identification No.:   UG PA 2976






REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Technical Assistance and Capacity Building
1.1    In general, within the World Bank, technical assistance (or technical cooperation) are
understood to encompass a broad set of activities, only some of which directly lead to capacity
building. Specifically, technical assistance is defined in Operational Directive 8.40 as the transfer,
adaptation, mobilization and utilization of services, skills, knowledge, technology and engineering
to:  (a) carry out policy studies and provide advice; (b) support project preparation and
implementation; and (c) enhance a developing country's human, economic, technical, analytical,
managerial and institutional capabilities on a sustainable basis. Only activities undertaken under
item (c) above are considered as capacity building or, as an alternative definition, institutional
development.
1.2    The important aspect of the definition is the demarcation between provision of support for
addressing immediate needs (whether policy or project based) and the focus on the long-run
objective of increasing a country's ability or capacity (i.e. intellectual infrastructure, systems,
procedures, etc.). In designing the proposed Institutional Capacity Building Project, emphasis has
been given as far as possible to the latter set of activities. The focus of capacity building activities
under the proposed project are further narrowed to: (a) those tasks which have been demarcated
as most critical to supporting the key areas of Government's reform agenda (i.e. civil service
reform, decentralization and private sector development); and (b) only cross-sectoral tasks have
been included with sector specific capacity building activities being left to the purview of other
existing or planned sectoral operations.
B. Overview
1.3    The economic mismanagement and political chaos of the 1970s and the early 1980s in
Uganda severely decimated one of the most respected and effective public administrations in
Eastern Africa. With migration, Ugandan human capacity was further eroded. The National
Resistance (NRM) Government assumed power in January 1986 and capacity building efforts in
Uganda commenced in concert with the Economic Recovery Program through the Civil Service
Reform (CSR) program. Recognizing that the lack of capacity in Uganda could as much be
attributed to the absence of sufficient remuneration and proper incentives, as to the absence of
skilled staff, GOU began an aggressive effort to increase remuneration in the Civil Service. The
initiative was constrained by the lack of revenues collected by Government and, of necessity,
increasing salaries meant reducing the total complement of staff through rationalizing Ministerial
structures. The CSR program is discussed in detail in Section I.C below. Even as the CSR
program was being implemented, GOU began a systemic evaluation of its approach to Technical
Assistance which resulted in the Uganda Policy on Technical Assistance, issued in May 1993
(discussed in Section I.D). GOU also began determining, in addition to the overall CSR program,



- 2 -
the priority areas upon which it should focus and this resulted in the Uganda Capacity Building
Plan published in February 1994 (discussed in Section I.E. below).
C. Capacity Building in the Civil Service
1.4    Central Government Reform. Through the Economic Recovery Program launched by the
Government in 1987, the decline in standards and efficiency of the Civil Service has largely been
arrested. The initial attempts at reform focused on reducing the numbers of part time employees
and rationalizing the numbers, roles and functions of ministries. Then, in October 1990, a policy
framework for a comprehensive civil service reform was presented by the Public Service Review
and Reorganization Commission (PSRRC). The Commission's report, which included some 255
specific recommendations concluded that the Ugandan Civil Service had been marked not only by
its bloated structure, but also by inefficiency and poor performance. Key problems were:
inadequate pay and benefits; poor management skills; dysfunctional civil service organization; and
inadequate personnel management and training. This led to abuse of office and government
property; moonlighting and corruption; lack of discipline; an erosion of rules and regulations;
obsolete procedures; lack of appropriate systems; thin managerial and technical skills; poor public
service attitudes; and massive bureaucratic red tape. In 1992 the major recommendations of the
Committee were adopted as a framework for reform through Sessional Paper No. 1. The chosen
strategy includes: rationalization and downsizing of the civil service, reform of remuneration
policy and payroll administration, restructuring of ministries and decentralization of governmental
functions and development and introduction of improved personnel management systems.
1.5    To date, an impressive number of steps have been taken towards creating a small, well
motivated and remunerated civil service capable of delivering timely and improved service to the
public. Achievements include: significant real increases in salaries (although salary levels are still
far below the Minimum Living Wage prescribed by the PSRRC); a reduction in the number of
ministries from 38 in 1989 to 21 currently, and the rationalization of ministerial structures to
remove duplications and overlaps as well as to reduce encroachment on the private sector.
Significant progress has also been achieved in the removal of ghost workers, redundant employees,
the overage and the poor performers reducing Central Government civil service staff from 1990
payroll payments of 320,000 employees to around 148,000 as of December 1994.
1.6    Despite the substantial achievements, the following issues remain to be addressed:
continuing insufficiency of remuneration, i.e. pay and benefits (including non-monetary benefits)
and major design weaknesses in the current pay and grading system which add lack of equity and
transparency to the basic issue of low pay; insufficient management and supervisory skills;
inadequate personnel management and training; lack of a Code of Conduct for Civil Servants; and
inadequate facilities management and lack of a maintenance culture.
1.7    Previous and ongoing efforts by Government and related support from donors, in
particular the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), the Overseas Development
Administration of the United Kingdom (ODA), and the International Development Association
(IDA) have, of necessity, focused on restoring efficiency to the core aspects of government
business (e.g., planning, budgeting, control of financial and monetary resources). Aspects of
reform in the Central Government need to be continued and assisted, particularly in relation to the
areas identified in para. 1.6 above. However, the purview of the assistance needs to be also
extended to Local Governments (i.e. District Level and below) as a result of Government's
decision to adopt a decentralized approach to management and delivery of public services.



- 3 -
1.8    Decentralization. After taking power in 1986, one of the first goals enunciated by the
NRM Government in its overall framework of social-political policy was that of decentralization.
In 1987, political decentralization was introduced through the Resistance Council (RC) system
which consisted of a hierarchical structure of Councils and Commnittees. Commencing in 1986, the
Government also began studying the issue of decentralization of administrative authorities and
responsibilities to the thirty nine Districts in Uganda to match the RC structure. There have been
various reports produced over the last seven years and in 1991, Cabinet considered and approved
measures to strengthen democratic decentralization.  Also, in 1992, a Standing Committee on
Decentralization consisting of Permanent Secretaries was established, and a Decentralization
Secretariat set up in the Ministry of Local Government. In November 1993, Parliament enacted
the Local Governments (Resistance Councils) Statute. The implementation of this Statute will
result in Central Government functions being reduced to policy formulation, planning, inspection
and the management of national programs. All other services would be provided at or below the
District level. In addition to locally raised revenues, Central Government would provide support
through block grants and equalization grants (the latter compensating for disparity between
districts).
1.9    The implementation of decentralization is well underway and the commitment of Central
and Local Governments to its implementation is evident. Work on personnel decentralization is
well advanced: (a) District Service Committees for all districts have been appointed; and (b) the
District Reviews (which would establish structures and staffing) for all Districts have been
completed and approval of these Reviews by the District Resistance Councils of most districts has
also been completed. Financial decentralization is being implemented in a phased manner. The
recurrent budget is being decentralized commencing with thirteen Districts in the first year,
fourteen Districts in the second year and twelve Districts in the last year. During the first year of
decentralization which commenced in 1993/94, the first thirteen Districts were responsible for
managing expenditures (and reporting to Central Government) on the basis of specific votes for
each sector Ministry which was having its services decentralized.  In the second year of
decentralization, 1994/95, the first thirteen Districts have received block grants from the Central
Government. The District Resistance Councils are responsible for deciding on allocation of the
block grant among the various services provided. Salaries have been excluded from the block
grant (and remain a line item) since the District Reviews are in process and the staffing levels have
yet to be agreed between the Central Government and the Districts. In 1994/95, the second group
of fourteen Districts went to the vote system. In 1995/96 the remaining group of twelve Districts
will go to the vote system; the first twenty seven Districts will go the block grant system at the
same time. Hence, by 1996/97 the financial decentralization process for the recurrent budget
would have been completed.   Progress to date in the thirteen Districts with financial
decentralization is being monitored closely by the Ministry of Local Government and is reported
as being good; only two out of thirteen Districts were considered to have had unsatisfactory
performance in expenditure management and remedial actions have been instituted.
1.10   In addition to the decentralized activities, some activities which were to have been
provided by the Central Government per the Second Schedule of the Statute (e.g. hospitals,
secondary schools) have been delegated to the Districts. A substantial improvement in service
delivery has resulted. For example, hospitals in Jinja, Masaka, Itojo and Kabale are reported to
have experienced substantial improvement in number of patients (including outpatients) served,
availability of drugs, food to patients, rehabilitation of premises, payment of staff salaries and
utility bills, etc.  Other notable achievements include savings on staff payments through
identification of ghost employees and contracting out of services.



- 4 -
1.11    Despite the achievements to-date, it can be expected that successful implementation of the
decentralization program is likely to remain extremely challenging because of shortcomings in
resources and human capacities in the Local Governments. Major shortcomings that will need to
be addressed include: lack of appropriate personnel and financial management systems/registries
required to manage the substantially higher level of finances and personnel under the direct control
of the districts after decentralization. Use of Central Government resources has also resulted in
several new reporting requirements. Shortage of staff and the need for extensive training of
available staff also exists in several key areas such as planning, finance/accounting, etc. Finally,
under the Statute, the RCIII (i.e. the sub-county) level has a substantial role in revenue and
expenditure management. While certain districts (e.g. Jinja) had already commenced providing
sub-counties with the responsibility for retaining and managing a proportion of resources, in most
districts strengthening the sub-counties will be a substantial task. Thus, Government is in need of
considerable assistance in order to help maintain its current commitment to reform and successfully
effect this fundamental change in its approach to management of the economy and delivery of
services.
1.12   Donor Support for Decentralization. The Government of Denmark, through the Danish
International Development Association (DANIDA) has been the lead donor and has provided/is
providing support to Government in various ways. First, when IDA's District Management Study
became the focus of debate and analysis within Government, experts were funded to help
Government in its decision making process.  Second, an inter-disciplinary task force which
prepared the implementation modalities and reviewed the Local Government Statute was financed.
Third, the establishment and operations of the Decentralization Secretariat are being partially
financed. Fourth, substantial support for training and technical assistance is being provided up to
March 1997. Fifth, some districts were supplied with limited office equipment. Finally, the
District Development Program of one district (Rakai) is being financed. IDA has supported the
decentralization program so far through sector work, i.e. the District Management Study (Report
No. 10695-UG) and the Economic and Financial Management (EFM) Project (Cr. 2418-UG).
Under that project, the District Reviews being conducted by Government have been supported.
Other activities being implemented will also have an impact: systems and procedures being
developed for central personnel and financial management will provide an important underpinning
for decentralized systems; and some funds have been allocated for a program to commence
implementation of and train staff for decentralized personnel and financial systems.
D. Uganda Policy on Technical Assistance
1.13   The Uganda Policy on Technical Assistance, May 1993 (which was prepared by GOU as
part of a UNDP funded National Capacity Planning exercise), classifies technical assistance
activities as either investment related or as free standing; under the Bank definitions, the
freestanding Technical Assistance (TA) would include both policy support and capacity building.
The study established that between 1988 and 1991, commitments for technical assistance support
grew from US$65 million to US$133 million. Investment related TA accounted for only 21 % of
the resources; 79% was free standing. The report notes that the majority of the free standing TA
was represented by smnall disjointed project interventions that usually have little impact on the
overall economic performance. Consequently, the new policy defines a process which would:
(a) at first, ensure that TA priorities meshed with national plan and budget priorities and,
later, include TA projects as part of the budgeting process;



- 5 -
(b) ensure that GOU takes the lead in project identification and that all TA projects are
channelled through the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP);
(c) focus on the motivation of nationals and on the provision of an enabling environment
specifically in the civil service;
(d) follow a country program approach as opposed to a project approach;
(e) use national execution by Government as the primary modality for implementing TA
projects supplemented by use of local consultants and expatriate nationals. Use of long
term expatriate advisors would be reduced to the minimum necessary with increase in the
use of short-term consultants, where necessary; and
(f) TA would no longer focus only on the public sector but could be extended to the private
sector (including non-governmental organizations).
E. Uganda Capacity Building Plan
1.14    The Capacity Building Plan (CBP) for Uganda provides a coordinated framework of the
priority areas where GOU with donor assistance could focus in the short- to medium-term. The
preparation of the CBP was preceded in 1990 by a comprehensive sector report on Capacity
Building prepared by the Ugandan Government and IDA together with the participation of a
number of other donor agencies concerned with capacity building in Uganda.  In 1991,
Government set up a Capacity Building Secretariat (CBS) in the Ministry of Planning and
Economic Development (now merged into the new Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning).
This Secretariat was supported by an advance of US$185,000 from IDA's Special Project
Preparation Facility. While being organizationally within one Ministry, the CBS had participation
from a number of key ministries, the private sector and the major training and higher educational
institutions in the country. The CBS commissioned various local consultancies to study a range
of options and possibilities which formed background papers for the development of a Capacity
Building Plan for Uganda. The Plan was completed and, in February 1994, approved by the
President's Economic Council. Subsequently, in April 1994, Government held a workshop to
present the findings of the plan to donors and to assess donor support for various initiatives
described in the Plan.
1.15    The Capacity Building Plan (CBP) identified ten priority areas for enhancing capacity.
The project is supporting three of these priority areas: legal and judicial systems; accountancy
profession; and local training institutions.  The issues in these areas are discussed below.
Additional areas of emphasis included under the CBP which are considered key areas of capacity
building are: economic policy analysis within and outside Government; manpower planning and
linkages to the training function; local management training institutions;  return of skilled
Ugandans; local consultancy profession; technical and vocational education and industrial training
capacity; contribution of women to policy development and management; and non-governmental
organizations.
Legal Sector
1.16    The Constitution of Uganda and the Juridicature Act of 1967 constitute the foundation
of the Ugandan legal system, i.e. the continued application of the received English law and its co-



- 6 -
existence with the customary law of Uganda. The body of statutory law (i.e. laws made by the
legislature) is made up of largely outdated legislation in almost every sector especially laws which
affect business, industry and private sector development.
1.17    The problem of outdated laws is exacerbated by the absence of timely and rigorous
enforcement of these laws due to weaknesses in the major institutions in the sector. These
institutions are the Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs (MJCA), the Constitutional
Commission, the Human Rights Commission, the Law Reform  Commission and the Law
Development Centre; the Law Council; the Judiciary, the Resistance Council Courts (which are
a parallel system of courts which exist with respect to lower level courts) and the police. In
general the sector is confronted with the following problems: insufficient staffing of lawyers,
paralegal and secretarial staff; outdated office equipment and technology and the lack of proper
office facilities; absence of in-service and other training programs; absence of easily available
documentation with regard to the Laws of Uganda (which were last published in 1964) and the
latest Court decisions (Law Reports were last published in Uganda in the early 1970s); and lack
of office supplies. One of the actions that Government has undertaken in the recent past to
demonstrate its commitment to reforming the sector is to significantly increase the salaries of
professional lawyers as of July 1994.  It is anticipated that the increased salaries would
appropriately complement the inputs provided under the project and hence there should be a
substantial impetus to project viability and sustainability.
1.18    Donor Assistance. Assistance in addressing the problems in the legal sector has been
forthcoming on a limited basis from DANIDA, ODA, USAID and the Austrian Government. It
has been mostly directed towards the provision of office equipment, vehicles and books, the
upgrading of selected physical facilities, especially courts, and the supply of expatriate technical
assistance to fill vacancies.
Accountancy Profession
1.19    The development of accounting in Uganda has fallen behind the rest of Africa due to the
past lack of support from the Government of Uganda (GOU) in the formation of the accounting
profession and in the development of a local professional qualification. Uganda has a very small
accounting profession, with less than 100 professionally qualified accountants and a similarly
serious shortage of accounting technicians. The demand for accountants is very high, but because
of the small numbers most accounting jobs are filled by staff with no formal accounting
qualifications who may not be capable of carrying out the tasks assigned to them. In Government,
the lack of qualified staff is exacerbated by the low remuneration and consequently, Government
has been unable to produce its own accounts on time.
1.20    As a result of the mismatch between supply and demand, there is a heavy demand for
accounting education in Uganda and the only accounting courses currently offered in the public
sector are heavily oversubscribed. The only professional accounting qualification available to
Ugandans are foreign ones: i.e., a Kenyan Certified Public Accountancy qualification or a UK
qualification; either qualification requires expenditure of large amounts of foreign exchange.
Further, the taxation and legal systems which are studied as part of the Kenyan and UK
qualifications are not relevant to Uganda and due to unfamiliarity with these systems, Ugandan
students achieve a lower pass rate in both examinations.



- 7 -
1.21    In recent years, the GOU has realized that the development of accounting is important
for the economy. As a first step, it sought donor support in the form of discrete projects aimed
at improving the skills of specific cadres (i.e. accountants and auditors) within Government. Donor
support in the development of the profession and a local examination has consisted of two studies
both funded by ODA which laid out the next steps required in developing the profession and an
examination. Based on the findings of the above studies, the accountancy profession worked with
GOU to legislate the necessary changes. In 1992, Parliament passed the Accountants Statute which
established the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Uganda (ICPAU) to regulate the
profession and maintain standards, and the Public Accountants Examinations Board to conduct
accounting examinations. Unfortunately, during the passage of the Bill through Parliament, some
changes were introduced which have led to continuing disputes regarding the membership of the
Institute. The Statute allows for two categories of members: full and associate with only full
members allowed to vote at the Annual General Meeting and be elected to the Council of the
Institute. Hence, while the Statute provides plenty of reassurance for all those currently engaged
in the practice of accounting that they would be able to continue to do so, it provides for a separate
category (i.e. full members) who would be expected to lead the profession.
1.22    As with similar Acts, the Statute contains a list of bodies whose members could be
admitted into full membership, without the need to take any additional examinations. This list was
initially restricted to internationally recognized qualifications of professional accountants in other
countries. However, during the passage of the Bill through Parliament, four other bodies were
added on the list, three of which are not associations of professional accountants. Of particular
concern to professional accountants was the inclusion of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and
Administrators since, while qualified in the field of their specialization, the Chartered Secretaries
training does not prepare them to be professionally qualified accountants. Further, since there are
more Chartered Secretaries in Uganda than professionally qualified accountants, if admitted as full
members they could have dominated the Institute. Not being led by professional accountants could
have seriously hinder the development of the accounting profession in Uganda as well as reduced
the possibility of the Ugandan qualification being internationally accepted.
1.23    GOU has recently amended the Statute to exclude the three professional associations of
concern to the professional accountants, i.e. Association of International Accountants of UK, the
Institute of Chartered Managers and Administrators and Institute of Chartered Secretaries and
Administrators. This has allowed the ICPAU to hold its first Annual General Meeting and to elect
its Governing Council. These actions had been required prior to negotiations in order to ensure
IDA support to the Accountancy profession.
Training
1.24    Training of Civil Service staff has in the past been undertaken in an ad hoc manner.
There has been no overall training plan for GOU staff and a large proportion of the training has
been undertaken through donor funding, often in the context of specific projects. Further, the past
approach to the improvement of training delivery in Uganda has focused upon improving the
available supply of training. Specific institutions were chosen and assisted, primarily by donors,
through provision of:  civil works, equipment and technical assistance (including twinning
arrangements), overseas training and study tours. This approach has had two main shortcomings.
First, public and private sector entities which constitute the demand for training have had only a
marginal input into the structure of courses being provided by the training institutions. The only
choice available to these institutions has been to send their staff to the available local training or



-8 -
send their staff outside Uganda at a higher cost to be trained in more relevant skill areas. The lack
of market orientation was due to a low impetus for cost recovery. Since the training institutions
were being funded directly by Government or donors, the need to get revenues from the trainees
was not an overarching objective. This in turn meant that tailoring courses to trainee needs and
improving capacity utilization were not important priorities. Hence, the available local supply of
training determined the demand for local training rather than the demand for training determining
the supply of training. Second, other than the few institutions supported by donor funding, there
was been no broad based development of local training institutions since there was no functioning
market for matching demand and supply of training. Further, the existing training institutions,
which received direct subsidy from Government and subsidies in kind from donor funded civil
works, equipment, etc. were able to offer lower prices than the smaller institutions.
F. IDA's Previous Role and Lessons Learned
1.25    Over the last seven years (1987-1993), Government has received significant assistance
from IDA. IDA's Second Technical Assistance Project (FY84-92) and Third Technical Assistance
Project (FY87-94) had as their prime objective the strengthening of the core agencies of
Government: the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development and
the Central Bank. There were some important lessons learned from these two successful technical
assistance projects which were incorporated into the follow-on Economic and Financial
Management Credit (FY93): subprojects/interventions were targeted to areas closely coupled with
the ongoing reform effort and were in some cases upstream sector work for further reform efforts;
and TA was designed and implemented with utmost flexibility, consistent with the Development
Credit Agreement, which required greater amounts of supervision.
1.26    The approach utilized in the proposed project for the upstream activities which precede
project preparation is similar to the successful approach under the earlier projects. First, the
upstream sector work was undertaken at an early stage and in a collaborative manner with GOU
and other interested donors. Second, the problems/issues identified were prioritized into key areas
to be addressed in the process of developing the Capacity Building Plan. From the overall list of
GOU's priorities, IDA selected a few areas of assistance. While building upon the successful
accomplishments of the past projects, this project's emphasis has shifted for two reasons. First,
the focus has shifted from addressing areas requiring immediate improvement to strengthening local
institutions/building capacity for the future. The magnitude of the problems and the need to
reestablish critical functions had required a focus on immediate results and resulted in significant
use of expatriate assistance. The situation having stabilized, it is now appropriate to widen the
focus from short term problem solving to building indigenous capacity, i.e. developing lasting
systems and skills. Second, given the decentralization of activities to the district level, the project
has expanded its focus to include local governments.
1.27    Linkages with other IDA operations. The EFM  Project (FY93), which is currently
underway, is assisting in the restructuring of the now combined Ministries of Finance and Planning
and the integration of Government's key planning and financial systems; helping to develop the
newly created Uganda Revenue Authority, and completing the reorganization of practices and
procedures at the Central Bank. The EFM Project has two components which have linkages with
the proposed project. First, the District Reviews being conducted by Government have been
supported. Second, other activities under implementation will also have an impact: systems and
procedures for central personnel and financial management will provide an important underpinning
for decentralized systems; and some funds have been allocated for a program to commence



implementation of and train staff for decentralized personnel and financial systems. The Second
Structural Adjustment Credit (FY94) also has some conditionalities related to the Civil Service
Reform program, i.e. satisfactory progress towards the monetization of benefits and the
implementation of action plans for restructuring of five ministries constitute second tranche release
conditions.
1.28    Parallel Financing. Over the last two years there has been considerable donor activity
in the areas of capacity building. Various donors have been involved with different elements of
capacity building including: DANIDA (with judiciary and decentralization reforms); USAID and
ODA (judiciary); and UNDP (CSR and NGOs); and EEC (human resource development). In
addition, the Civil Service Reform program has broad based support from several donors including
UNDP, ODA, Austria, Denmark, Netherlands, Norway and Sweden who have funded costs of
restructuring the Civil Service and downsizing the central ministries.
G. Rationale for IDA involvement
1.29    The project is closely linked with the objectives of the Bank Group Country Assistance
Strategy, which is to help the country reduce poverty by: (a) maximizing labor-intensive
economic growth; (b) strengthening economic and social infrastructure; (c) supporting human
resource development; and (d) enhancing provision of public services with emphasis on ensuring
that these services reach the poor and vulnerable groups. The strategy is designed to be both
gender and environmentally sensitive and is consistent with the maintenance of macroeconomic
stability.
1.30    The project focuses on three of the key areas of the Country Strategy, i.e. enhancing the
provision of public services; supporting human resource development through capacity building;
and improving economic growth. As capacity building is being extended to local governments at
the district level and below, this is likely to improve resource mobilization and management and
consequently enhance service delivery at the level at which most of the population (and the poor)
live in Uganda.  The project's secondary focus is on developing the legal and financial
accountability frameworks for public and private sector development. The focus on training in
implementation skills would also contribute towards raising the standards of public administration
while supporting the development of stronger private sector institutions.



- 10 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.1    The objectives of the project are to establish greater local institutional and human capacity
to develop and implement public policy and support the growth of the private sector through: (a)
support for the continuation of the Civil Service Reform; (b) assistance to the Government of
Uganda in its decentralization program; and (c) strengthening the legal and financial accountability
framework and institutions.
B. Summary Project Description
2.2    The project will consist of five components as described below:
(a) Central Government Capacity Building Component (US$6.62 million): would continue
support to the Civil Service Reform program (which is currently being provided through
the EFM Project). Assistance would be provided for: streamlining of the civil service,
improving the transparency of personnel management and focusing the civil service on
efficient and effective service delivery.
(b) Local Government Capacity Building Component (US$12.74 million): would support
Government's ongoing decentralization program through assisting in defining and
implementing an appropriate system of inter-governmental finance. It would continue the
process of strengthening local government financial and personnel management structures,
systems and procedures. It would assist in improvement in service delivery through the
introduction of Results Oriented Management to local Governments and through basic
retooling, i.e. minor civil works and equipment.
(c) Legal Sector Reform  Component (US$8.24 million):  would strengthen the legal
framework for private sector development, improve availability of legal decisions,
support strengthening of major institutions in the legal sector (such as the Ministry of
Justice and Constitutional Affairs and Judiciary) and introduce improvements in legal
education and training.
(d) Accountancy Profession Component (US$0.98 million): would support the development
of the professional association (the ICPAU), the establishment of a local professional
qualification and examining capability and the introduction of local accounting and
auditing standards.
(e) Training Funds Component (US$7.02 million): would pilot a demand driven process of
providing funds on a cost sharing basis to public and private sector institutions to acquire
their training needs for implementation skills from the local market. It would also assist
selectively identified weak training institutions with potential for improvement through
staff training and acquisition of study materials and equipment on a cost sharing basis.



- 11 -
C. Detailed Project Description
Central Government Capacity Building
2.3    As has been described in part C of Section I, substantial efforts have been made by
Government to implement a CSR program. The support to this CSR program would continue by
bringing several ongoing activities to completion and developing the next stage of the reform
process. The component would continue assistance in streamlining of the civil service, improving
the transparency of personnel management and focusing the civil service on efficient and effective
service delivery.
2.4    Support to the streamlining of the civil service would be provided at two levels. First,
the overall program being managed through the Ministry of Public Service (MPS) would be
supported especially through:
(a) improving central personnel management systems;
(b) supporting key bodies and staff undertaking a civil- service-wide classification of
personnel from the perspective of identifying candidates for termination as a result of
restructuring/redundancy activities;
Second, at the level of individual ministries, the project would:
(c) support the implementation of ministerial restructuring plans (or Ministerial Reviews) for
sixteen ministries; the restructuring of the remaining five ministries is already underway.
Further, since the restructuring plans do not incorporate the impact of decentralization,
the project would support work to redefine and harmonize the new structures and
establishment for the Central Government based on the approved structure and staffing
of the districts as contained in the district restructuring plans (or District Reviews); and
(d) Ministry level personnel management functions would be strengthened.
2.5    The second area of focus would be in improving the transparency of personnel
administration. Specifically:
(a) Improved personnel management practices would be established, i.e. a new salary
structure would be established by July 1996.  Other key activities would include
introduction of Civil Service examinations and issuance of revised Standing Orders and
introduction of a Performance Recognition System.
(b) To support the move towards greater transparency, all Civil Servants will be expected
to adhere to a new Code of Conduct which would be developed and issued by July 1996.
(c) To ensure compliance with the new procedures, the MPS Department of Inspection would
be strengthened primarily through development of inspection procedures and staff
training.
2.6    The focus on effectiveness will come through introduction of Results Oriented
Management (ROM) which will focus civil servants on service delivery through the achievement



- 12 -
of definite objectives within specified time targets. The project would support a baseline Service
Delivery Survey for Central Ministries which would collate data on quantifiable outputs and user
perception surveys. This would establish the reference point for future measurement and be used
to develop performance standards for each Ministry. These standards would then be introduced
as part of GOU's budgeting procedures from the 1996/97 budgeting cycle to link service delivery
with budgetary provision.
2.7    The focus on efficiency will come through improvement in two important support services
underlying service delivery, i.e. facilities management and records management.
(a) Capacity for Facility and Physical Assets Management. A study of the best approach to
managing physical facilities, i.e. buildings, physical plant and equipment would be
undertaken. The study would also review the utilization of Ugandan Government
physical facilities abroad, recommend the optimal size of such facilities and approaches
to managing them.  The new policy would be implemented as part of the GOU's
budgeting procedures commencing from the 1997/98 budgeting cycle.
(b) Strengthening of the Records Management Function. The project would complement
ongoing activities being undertaken through ODA funding. These activities have and
would continue to focus on defining an overall policy framework and records
management policies and procedures and assisting in the timely access to information in
several ministries.  The project would complement the program by providing staff
training and assisting in the establishment of a National Records Centre.
2.8    Training. A substantial portion of the training for the Civil Service would be undertaken
through the Training Funds component. However, two critical activities would be funded under
this component, i.e. development of training plans and senior management training.
2.9    A detailed description of the Central Government Capacity Building component is provided
in Annex 7.
Local Government Capacity Building
2.10   This component would continue the process of assisting local governments through the
Ministry of Local Government (MLG) to improve their abilities to properly manage and administer
responsibilities entrusted to them and thus improve the quality of service delivery in a viable and
sustainable manner. It would complement assistance already being provided by DANIDA.
2.11   Inter-Governmental Finance.   The project would assist in the definition and
implementation of an appropriate system of inter-governmental finance. A study of the
decentralization of the development budget would be completed by June 1996 and phased
decentralization would commence by July 1997. A study would also be undertaken to propose
establishment, capitalization and management of a revolving development fund; this study is
projected to be completed by June 1996 and a GOU position statement on its findings is to be
issued by December 1996. Recognizing the evolving agenda and the consequent need for
flexibility in defining the program, funds have also been provided for specific activities to be
defined at a later date.



- 13 -
2.12   Strengthening offinancial and personnel management structures, systems and procedures.
This would include computerization of accounts, preparation of final accounts and preparation of
resource endowment profiles. The project would provide support to computerization of the
decentralized payroll and decentralized records management and the redesign of the pension
system. The credit would also support training in basic computer skills and records management;
a substantial portion of other training (sensitization and skills development) would be undertaken
through DANIDA funding and from the EFM Project. The key outcomes are expected to be:
(a) the preparation and auditing of local government accounts within the six months time limit
prescribed in the Local Governments Statute. By March 1996, twenty seven districts are expected
to be in compliance and by March 1997 all thirty nine districts are expected to be in compliance
with the Statute; and (b) by July 1995, consolidated payroll processing of all District
Administration staff and staff formerly employed by the Central Government would be undertaken
by the Uganda Computer Services on behalf of the districts. Further, it is projected that between
July 1996 and June 1997 the districts would implement a decentralized management of payroll.
2.13   Results Oriented Management. The credit would support the introduction of ROM at the
district level in a manner similar to that envisaged for the Central Ministries (para. 2.6). Training
in planning at the district level would also be supported. ROM is expected to be incorporated into
Local Government budgeting procedures commencing with the 1996/97 budget cycle.
2.14    Retooling, i.e. the basic improvements required to establish a reasonable level of physical
infrastructure for the district administrations would be supported; existing structures would be
refurbished to provide modest office out of which District Administrations could operate. Essential
inputs (e.g. office and computing equipment and furnishings) would also be provided.
2.15   The project would also provide modest financing for the transportation needs of districts
related to revenue collection and monitoring and supervising district-wide activities. The cost of
the vehicles would be completely recovered from the districts over a five year repayment period
and deposited into a Revolving Fund dedicated for purchase of vehicles. The cost recovery
approach is expected to encourage the districts to choose the lowest cost solutions for their needs.
This scheme is expected to commence by January 1996.
2.16    A detailed description of the Local Government Capacity Building component is provided
in Annex 8.
Legal Sector Reform Component
2.17    This sector has received only limited assistance to-date without an overall coordinated
approach to developing the sector. GOU has developed, in the context of the Capacity Building
Plan, an overall program for reforming the sector. IDA's support and the assistance provided
under this project is focused upon the commercial aspects of law and on the settlement of civil
disputes as required by IDA's current policies which take into account the fact that its primary
mandate is economic development. The specific areas to be supported through the project are
described below and the project component will be coordinated through the MJCA.
2.18   Legal Education, Training and Accreditation of Lawyers. The current system of legal
education in Uganda is based on the recommendations made by the Gower Commission in 1969.
Under this system, after completing the substantive study of the law, all prospective lawyers in
Uganda have to undergo training in professional skills for a period of one year. This training can



- 14 -
only be undertaken at the Law Development Centre (LDC) which limits its intake of students to
sixty per year.  Over the years, LDC's ability to provide legal training has deteriorated
considerably. As LDC has struggled to meet its statutory obligations for pre-service training and
law research and reporting, it has been unable to dedicate any significant level of resources to
Continuing Legal Education (CLE) for the profession. This situation has been exacerbated by the
absence of any mandatory requirements for CLE for lawyers as a requirement to maintain their
ability to continue in practice. In order to ensure that these needs are satisfactorily addressed, a
substantial change in the delivery of legal education and training in Uganda is required. As a first
step, the project is funding a study to evaluate the existing status of legal education in Uganda with
a view to finding ways and means of making it more relevant and responsive to the changing
conditions in the country. Taking into account the findings of this study, GOU will adopt a
satisfactory policy on legal education. GOU furnishing a statement defining its Policy on Legal
Education is a condition of disbursement for the legal sector component.
2.19   Law Revision and Reform in Uganda. These are two related activities which are separate
but have several linkages. Law revision is the process of consolidating various Laws of Uganda
into a series of volumes with the objective of making these Laws readily available to various
participants in the legal process.  Law reform is the amendment of specific laws from the
perspective of modernizing these laws within the socio-economic context prevalent in Uganda and
removing impediments to Government's stated objective of making the private sector the focal
point for growth in the economy. The Law Revision exercise would be undertaken through parallel
donor financing (USAID to fund the consolidation of laws and ODA to fund the printing of the
laws). This component would focus upon law reform to assist in Private Sector Development. The
prioritization of laws requiring reform was undertaken; the private sector was consulted through
a one-day workshop which was held in Kampala in October 1994. The prioritized list of laws
identified for reform during the period of project implementation was subsequently agreed with
IDA. The necessary draft laws are to be prepared, published as bills and submitted for the
legislature's consideration by July 1996. Assistance would also be given to reform of the Domestic
Relations laws which primarily impact on the rights of women and have bearing on the position
and treatment of women within society and their ability to engage independently in constructive
commercial/economic activity. The draft Domestic Relations Bill is to be presented to the
legislature for consideration by December 1996.
2.20   Law Reporting. The Ugandan legal system is based on common law which has a legal
theory that is deeply rooted in the precedent system. In the past, there has been no systematic law
reporting which has handicapped advocates, prosecutors and judges who require readily available
information on precedents in order to perform their duties. The main series of Uganda Law
Reports is presently out of production; the backlog dates back to 1958 although between 1971-1973
three volumes were produced which are also currently out of print. In the absence of funding to
produce the law reports, a shorter abstract of the decisions made by the Supreme and High Courts
is currently being published; even this is out of date with its last edition having been published in
1991. The preparation and publication of Law Reports would be supported by the project and the
backlog of over three decades would be removed.
2.21   Institutional Strengthening of MJCA and Judiciary. The institutional weaknesses besetting
the administration of justice result in delays in the handling of cases thus causing backlogs at all
levels of the courts. The waiting period for a case awaiting disposal ranges from two to six years.
Record keeping and retrieval of files is entirely manual and inefficiently organized such that it takes
a number of days in some instances, to locate the right file. For private sector development,



- 15 -
speed, transparency and consistency is required in the disposal of commercial litigation in addition
to the modernization of laws. Institutional strengthening would be undertaken by providing:
substantial staff training, access to legal information, i.e. law books, updated and revised Laws of
Uganda and the latest case law as embodied in the Uganda Law Reports, and increased access to
inputs necessary to accomplish the job.
2.22   Improving Service Delivery and Increasing Cost Recovery for Legal Sector Services.
There are certain services provided by the MJCA where there is potential to improve service
delivery and increase cost recovery thereby increasing resources available to the legal sector. The
project would commence with two departments where this is immediately feasible, i.e. the
Administrator-General's Department (AG) and the Registrar-General's Department (RG). The
AG's Department is charged with administering deceased persons' and insolvent estates, and also
acts as a Public Trustee for minors and legally incapacitated persons. The RG's Department is
responsible for registering all businesses and companies, births, deaths, etc, and intellectual
property such as patents, copyrights and trademarks.  Based on the Ministerial Review for the
MJCA, Government has decided to devolve both departments from the Ministry and to establish
them as separate entities. Both departments partially recover the cost of service provision; the AG
recovers a fee of 1 % at the time of the distribution of funds from the estate and the RG charges
for services although a substantial portion of its revenue is attributable to stamp duty. Both
departments have seen their workload increasing; current revenue generation consists of 913
million U Sh in 1993 for the AG's Department and 486 million U Sh for the RG's Department.
2.23    There is considerable scope to improve service delivery in both Departments especially
outside Kampala which would in turn affect both timeliness and quality of services at the district
level. Studies are underway for both departments to assist in (a) preparation of Business Plans;
and (b) determination of appropriate cost recovery measures for both departments. For both the
offices of the Administrator-General and the Registrar-General, the provision of satisfactory
business plans covering at least thefirst three years of operation are a condition of disbursement.
2.24    A detailed description of the Legal Sector Reform component is provided in Annex 9.
Accountancy Strengthening Component
2.25    GOU having undertaken the preliminary steps necessary for the establishment of the
Governing Council of the ICPAU, the Institute can now proceed to undertake some important steps
to determine the future course of development of the profession. Consequently, the conditions of
disbursement for the Accountancy Strengthening component, would be: (a) appointment of the
Secretary of the ICPA U; (b) the Council of the ICPA U furnishing to IDA a satisfactory business
plan covering at least the first three years of operation; and (c) GO U and the ICPA U concluding
a Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
2.26    The component would be implemented and would support the accountancy profession by:
(a) assisting the Institute of Certified Public Accountants to commence operations and fulfil
the following functions: managing membership of its professional and student base,
ensuring the maintenance of professional standards amongst members, promoting the
usage of internally accepted accounting and auditing standards in Uganda and securing



- 16 -
international recognition of the Institute. The accounting and auditing standards are to
be completely published by June 1998.
(b) developing a local professional qualification and associated examination. This would
include design of a scheme of examinations, with detailed examination syllabi and reading
lists, and preparation and moderation of examination papers. It is expected that the first
intake of students will commence by September 1996 and the first examinations will be
held by June 1997.
(c) commencing the process of providing Continuing Professional Education and traiiing to
members of the profession.
A detailed description of the Accountancy Strengthening component is provided in Annex 10.
Training Funds Component
2.27    This component will pilot a system to strengthen: implementation skills in the public and
private sectors; and public and private sector training institutions through the provision of limited
assistance on a competitive basis. The component will consist of two Training Funds which would
be managed by the Capacity Building Secretariat (CBS) in the MFEP:
(a) The Public Sector and Private Sector Matching Grant Fund (Fund I). This fund would
provide matching grants to public and private sector institutions for training of their staff.
For Central Ministries and Districts, Fund I would provide 90% of the resources with
10% of the resources being provided by the Government entities; actual cost funded by
government entities would be higher since travel and subsistence allowances paid to
trainees during training would not be funded under this component. ' Private sector
organizations would access Fund I through trade/industry associations; the cost sharing
arrangement would be 50% of the costs of training to be provided by the private sector
and 50% to be provided by Fund I. The fund would acquire training needs through a
transparent and competitive bidding process which will allow all local training
institutions, both publicly funded and private, to participate in service delivery.
(b) TAe Training Suppliers ' Strengthening Matching Grant Fund (Fund II) would be available
to selectively identified weak training suppliers which have potential and which would
be assisted in improving their service delivery capacity. Each training supplier could
receive assistance for staff training (up to 90 per cent of cost), acquisition of training
related study materials and books (up to 50 per cent of cost) and equipment (up to 25
percent of cost). The assistance to each institution would not exceed US$25,000.
2.28    The CBS will also manage a component of the EFM Project (Assistance to the Economic
Recovery Program) which has been used largely to acquire critical training needs within
Government. This program has been successful and funds have been drawn down at a rate faster
It is important to note that some Government ministries and districts would receive separate
training under other components which is required for the successful implementation of
those components. If such Central ministries or districts require additional training, they
can participate under this Fund on the prescribed cost sharing basis.



- 17 -
than projected at the appraisal of the EFM Project. The proposed project provides additional funds
to finance the program through the end of financial year 1998.
2.29    Phasing of Implementation. Implementation is phased because the CBS which will
manage this component and also be responsible for project administration (para. 2.44) will have
to be rebuilt. Though it has been in existence from 1991, it has been an ad hoc body and its
members have full time duties elsewhere. The process has commenced with GOU appointing its
Task Manager for the project as the Head of the CBS. The recruitment process for the group
managing the Training Funds component (i.e. a Component Manager and a Senior Training
Officer) is also underway. Once appointed, the staff will familiarize themselves with the training
processes during a pre-operational phase, i.e. before the component begins disbursing funds. The
CBS staff will work closely with the Ministries of Public Service and/or Local Government as these
Ministries procure two rounds of training for the Central Government or Local Government
Capacity Building components using the demand based procedures to be used under the component.
The CBS will then use this experience by managing one round of procurement of training for the
Legal Sector Reform or Accountancy Strengthening components. At the same time, the Training
Fund implementation guidelines would be reviewed based on the experience in Uganda and other
African countries where similar approaches are being attempted.
2.30    Consequently, the condition of disbursement for the Training Funds Component would
be agreement between GOU and IDA that: (a) the CBS staff have demonstrated capability to
implement the Training Funds component through (i) participation in the procurement of at least
two rounds of training under the Central or Local Government Capacity Building components and
(ii) satisfactory management of at least one round of training under the Legal Sector Reform or
Accountancy Strengthening components; and (b) the detailed guidelines in the Implementation
Manual pertaining to the implementation of the Training Funds component would have been
reviewed and, if warranted by the review, amended in the light of experience. It is expected that,
based on the projected schedule for hiring and training the Training Fund Component staff, that
the component would meet its condition of disbursement no later than July 1, 1996, i.e. about one
year after project effectiveness. Assurances were also received at negotiations that a special review
of the operations of the Training Funds component would be undertaken after the end of thefirst
year of operation of that component.
2.31    A detailed description of the Training Funds component is provided in Annex 11.
D. Participatory Approach to Project Preparation
2.32    The involvement of the Ugandan counterparts in all aspects of project processing has been
an integral part of the capacity building envisaged under the project. The involvement began
upstream; the sector work was prepared by GOU, IDA and other interested donors in a
collaborative manner.  Subsequently, IDA  also financed GOU's activities related to the
establishment of the Capacity Building Secretariat and the preparation of the Capacity Building
Plan. Upon the commencement of project preparation, GOU appointed a team (headed by a Task
Manager) which has been responsible for all aspects of project preparation and which will also be
responsible for project implementation. The GOU team has representatives from all the Ministries
involved in the project (i.e. Ministries of Finance and Economic Planning; Public Service; Local
Government; and Justice and Constitutional Affairs) and from the Institute of Certified Public
Accountants of Uganda. Appraisal commenced with the arrival of this team in Washington D.C.
in June 1994 and was completed with the visit of the IDA project team to Uganda in August 1994.



- 18 -
The Ugandan team, having been substantially involved in the preparation of the Yellow Cover Staff
Appraisal Report, participated in the Bank's (Yellow Cover) Review Meeting held in November
1994.
E. Project Cost and Financing Plan
2.33    The program cost is estimated at US$42.19 million equivalent (U Sh 38.99 billion)
inclusive of US$1.85 million of taxes and duties, out of which the proposed credit would finance
US$36.35 million equivalent. The foreign exchange component of the program is estimated at
44% of the total cost. Base cost estimates, US$36.29 million are in August 1994 prices. Physical
contingencies on the project are estimated at US$2.91 million (8% of project costs). Price
contingencies are estimated at US$2.99 million (8% of project costs); for foreign costs, the Unit
Value Index of Manufactured Exports (MUV Index) of 2.2 per cent has been utilized and for local
costs, projected local inflation rates have been utilized. The project is expected to be completed
by June 30, 2000 and close by December 31, 2000.
2.34    A summary of estimated costs is presented in the following table:
Table 1: Project Cost Summary (in US$ million)
Component                           Local  Foreign  Total  %
Foreign
Central Government Capacity Building   3.69   2.93    6.62   44%
Local Government Capacity Building    6.89   5.85    12.74   46%
Legal Sector Reform                 2.74   5.49    8.24   67%
Accountancy Strengthening           0.62   0.36    0.98   37%
Training Funds                      5.31   1.71    7.02   24%
PPF Refinancing                     0.35   0.15    0.50   30%
SPPF Refinancing                    0.19     -     0.19    -
Total BASELINE COSTS                19.80  16.49   36.29   45%
Physical Contingencies              1.43   1.49    2.91   51%
Price Contingencies                 2.45   0.54    2.99   18%
Total PROJECT COSTS                 23.67  18.52   42.19   44%
Note: Figures may not add due to rounding.
2.35    Government Counterpart Funds.  The proposed IDA credit of US$36.35 million
equivalent will finance 90% of project costs net of duties and taxes over a four-year period. The
local contribution made by Government will be for an estimated amount of US$4.88 million.



- 19 -
2.36    As part of a Public Expenditure Review process which commenced in 1992, Government
has been classifying all development projects into core and non-core categories. Core projects are
expected to receive full funding for the estimated local counterpart contributions on a monthly
basis. Over the last two years, this system has worked well. In FY94, for example, core projects
received on average 93 % of their local counterpart funds. Since the proposed project is expected
to be classified in the core category due to its priority nature, it is expected to receive its budgeted
local funds in their entirety. At negotiations, assurances were received that GOU would establish
project accounts into which it would make the required local cost contributions to the project
through its established system of monthly release of-funds. GOU depositing the Uganda Shilling
equivalent of US$50,000 into the project accounts is a condition of credit effectiveness.
2.37    Private Sector Contribution. The private sector will participate in the financing of the
project in the training component. Under Fund I, private sector institutions receiving training for
their employees will contribute 50% of the cost of the training. Under Fund II, institutions
receiving strengthening will fund 10 per cent of training of trainers, 50 per cent of study materials
and books and 75 per cent of cost of equipment. The private sector will contribute US$0.96
million of financing towards the project.
2.38    Parallel Financing. There are several donor initiatives which will run parallel to this
project and for which close coordination is being undertaken. DANIDA has projects which support
the Government's decentralization program and also a project to provide support to the judiciary.
ODA has programs supporting the judiciary, records management in the Central Government and
is committed to funding printing of the Revised Laws of Uganda. UNDP will finance some
elements of the Civil Service Reform Program and is preparing a project for building capacity of
Community Based Groups. USAID plans to finance the law revision activities which will constitute
preparation of the Revised Laws of Uganda.
2.39    The proposed financing plan is set out in the following table:
Table 2: Financing Plan (in US$ million)
US$ m
IDA                      36.35
GOU                      4.88
Private Sector           0.96
Total                    42.19
F. Project Implementation
2.40    The primary modality for implementation is to utilize existing government staff and
structures. Where external assistance would be sought, the first recourse would be to the local
consulting industry. If an assessment were made that the domestic capability was not available to



- 20 -
implement the project, international firms would be invited to participate in project implementation,
preferably in a consortium with a domestic firm.
2.41    Overall Coordination, Administration and Supervision. The overall management structure
for implementation and supervision of the project is shown in Annex 6. Coordination and
supervision of project components will be the responsibility of the Project Steering Committee
(PSC). The PSC which is to be established within sixty days after credit effectiveness, will be
chaired by the Permanent Secretary/Secretary to the Treasury and also consist of the Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Local Government; Permanent Secretary/Solicitor General; Secretary to the
Administrative Reform Commission, Ministry of Public Service; and the President of the Institute
of Certified Public Accountants of Uganda. A Technical Committee, which has been established
for project preparation, will continue to be responsible for project implementation and will report
to the Project Steering Committee. The Technical Committee would be chaired by the GOU Task
Manager and its membership would consist of the Component Managers for all five components.
The Capacity Building Secretariat will be the unit supporting the Technical Committee.
2.42    The project administration structure closely mirrors existing structures within
Government. Hence, the staff in MPS involved with the Civil Service Reform program would
manage the Central Government Capacity Building component and those involved with the
Decentralization Program in the MLG would manage the Local Government Capacity Building
component. For the Training Funds and Accountancy Strengthening components, existing staff and
structures are utilized but, taking into account their current lack of capacity, the project undertakes
to strengthen these further.  The Legal Sector Reform component is the only one where a
coordinating mechanism is being created in the Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs to
undertake the substantive management and coordination of assistance being provided to various
entities in the legal sector.
2.43    Each component will have a Component Manager who will be responsible for supervising
the substantive aspects of the project. To help the Component Managers and the Project Office
fulfil their roles effectively, a draft Implementation Manual was prepared as part of the appraisal
process and the initial draft of the Implementation Manual for the project including Action Plans
for all components were received by IDA prior to negotiations. The receipt by IDA of a revised
draft of the Implementation Manual including Action Plans for all components was a condition of
Board presentation. The receipt by IDA of thefinal satisfactory Implementation Manual and Action
Plans for all components for thefirst year of the project is a condition of credit effectiveness. This
Manual would contain: all agreed task (including TORs, procurement items and training needed
to implement the tasks) and procurement, consultancy and training procedures; implementation
timetables; and formats for quarterly reporting and annual work plans/programs. Assurances were
received at negotiations that the project would be carried out in accordance with the
Implementation Manual, satisfactory to IDA, including Action Plans for all components.
Assurances were also received that, commencing from the second year of project imnplementation,
the Action Plans would be refined and submitted to IDA as annual work plans (including training
plans) no later than the first dav of April preceding the financial year covered in the work plan.
2.44    The CBS will have a dual role in the project. It will manage the Training Funds
component and will also act as the main project office for the project. The Project Office for the
Economic and Financial Management Project will be integrated into the CBS and will provide the
administrative support for the project. Given that this office has successfully dealt with three IDA
projects over the last several years it has a substantial base of knowledge regarding IDA's



- 21 -
procurement and disbursement procedures that will allow project implementation to have an almost
negligible start-up learning curve. A Project Administration group has been established within the
Ministry of Local Government and is undergoing training with the objective of developing a
capacity within that Ministry to manage future district level projects including the proposed IDA
District Development Project (FY97), and to disseminate good procurement practices in the
districts. This group would be twinned with the CBS Project Office and it would learn through
on-the-job training; it would initially undertake project administration functions under the guidance
of the main (i.e. CBS) Project Office and subsequently undertake these independently. A consistent
overall approach will be followed to ensure that project records and accounts are maintained and
audited in a consolidated manner.
2.45    In line with ensuring appropriate integration among projects, IDA supervision for both
the ICB and the EFM Projects will be undertaken by the same Task Manager. The Task Manager
will be supported by a multi-disciplinary team in supervising the project. The Resident Mission
would be involved in project supervision on an as needed basis at the request of the IDA or GOU
Task Managers for the project.  Further, during one of the two yearly supervision missions, a
donor coordination meeting would be organized by GOU and would be attended by IDA and
donors to review the progress of the project.
2.46    The administrative activities to be supported under the project would be largely in the
CBS and the Project Office of the MLG; some activities would be supported in the rest of the
components. The main administrative responsibilities to be handled by the CBS or the MLG
Project office, as appropriate, in consultation with the component managers would be:  (a)
recruitment and employment of consultants, individuals as well as firms, as requested by
component managers; (b) procurement of goods, computers, vehicles, office equipment;
(c) management of project accounts and special accounts, including preparation and presentation
of withdrawal and replenishment applications for the credit proceeds. In addition, the GOU Task
Manager would: (a) ensure that quarterly reports are prepared by the component managers,
discussed by the Technical Committee, and then forwarded to IDA; (b) provide assistance to
component managers for the preparation of yearly work plans; and (c) manage the secretariat
function for the Technical and Steering Commnittees.
G. Procurement
2.47    Procurement would be undertaken by the main project office in the CBS and the program
office which has been established in MLG as discussed in para. 2.44. There is sufficient capacity
to undertake procurement in the CBS project office which will include staff currently administering
the EFM project and who had earlier been involved with implementation of two other IDA
financed Technical Assistance projects in Uganda (the Second and Third Technical Assistance
Projects).
2.48    The following civil works, goods, works and services would be procured: (a) under the
Central Government Capacity building component, the major services procured would be short-
term consultancies and in-country training. Office equipment would be procured and the National
Records Center would be constructed and furbished with appropriate records management
equipment; (b) under the Local Government Capacity building component, major services procured
would be for in-country training and some consultancy studies, minor refurbishment of district
administration offices would be undertaken and vehicles and office equipment and furnishings
provided to local governments; (c) under the Legal Sector Reform component, major services



- 22 -
procured would be for preparation of the Law Reports and Law Reform activities. Vehicles and
office equipment would also be provided to the MJCA and the Judiciary; (d) under the
Accountancy Strengthening component, major services procured would be a twinning arrangement
with another Accountancy Association and training for members; (e) under the Training Funds
component, major services procured would be training from local suppliers. Equipment and
training materials would also be acquired through the Training Supplier Strengthening Fund.
2.49    Bank Group Guidelines would be followed for procurement of goods and consultants and
experts for technical assistance. Specifically:
(a) Prior Review. All consulting contracts with firms and procurement of civil works and
goods over US$50,000 would be subject to prior review. Consulting contracts with
individuals would be subject to prior review over US$30,000.
(b) Method of Procurement
(i)   Contracts for computers, vehicles and office equipment would be combined into
minimum packages of US$100,000 and awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in accordance with World Bank guidelines.
(ii)  Items which cannot be grouped as above valuing less than US$100,000 will be
procured by local competitive bidding. For civil works, the aggregate amounts
thus procured would be less than US$1,370,000; for goods, the aggregate amounts
would be less than US$550,000; and for printing, the aggregate amounts would
be less than US$660,000.
(iii) Local shopping (i.e. contracts awarded on the basis of a comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers) would be undertaken for items
or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or less
per contract. For goods thus procured, the aggregate amounts would be less than
US$240,000 and for printing, the aggregate amounts thus procured would be less
than US$740,000.
(iv) All International Competitive Bidding and contracts for internationally recruited
consultants will follow the Bank's standard bidding and contracting procedures.
(c) Procurement of training services under the Training Funds component would follow
IDA's consultant guidelines. Details are provided in Annex 11.
In order to ensure that actions on procurement and consultancy activities are advanced at the time
of credit effectiveness, draft bidding documents and Letters of Invitation for all major contracts for
thefirst year's program were provided as a condition of Board presentation. Assurances were also
provided at negotiations that standard procurement/consultancy recruitment processing timetables
and documents would be utilized during project implementation. The Table overleaf sunmmarizes
the major types of procurement to be undertaken in the project.



- 23 -
Table 3: Procurement (in US$ nillion)
Procurement Method
Project Element                  ICB       LCB      Other    Total
Civil Works                      1.41      1.37                2.78
(1.22)    (1.18)             (2.40)
Goods                            9.67      0.55      0.24      10.46
(9.20)    (0.55)    (0.24)    (9.99)
Printing                                   0.66      0.74      1.40
(0.33)    (0.37)    (0.70)
Consultancy Services and Training
Technical Assistance:
International                                    3.06      3.06
(3.06)    (3.06)
Local                                            6.45      6.45
(6.45)    (6.45)
Training:
International                                    2.53      2.53
(2.53)    (2.53)
Local                                            12.02    12.02
(10.39)   (10.39)
Operating Costs                                      3.49      3.49
(0.83)    (0.83)
Total                           11.08      2.58     28.53     42.19
(10.42)   (2.06)    (23.87)   (36.35)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA;
figures may not add due to rounding.
H. Disbursements
2.50    The proposed credit will fund:
(a) 90 per cent of costs for civil works;
(b) 100 per cent of foreign and 90 per cent of local costs for goods except under the Training
Funds component where: (i) 50 per cent of the cost of training materials and books
acquired under Fund II; and (ii) 25 per cent of the cost of equipment acquired under
Fund II would be financed;
(c) 100 per cent of foreign and 95 percent of local costs under consultancy services and
training except under the Training Funds component where: (i) for public sector training



- 24 -
acquired under Fund I and staff training under Fund II, 90 per cent of costs would be
financed; (ii) for private sector training under Fund 1, 50 per cent of costs would be
financed;
(d) 50 per cent of costs for printing; and
(e) 20 per cent of foreign and local costs for project staff operating costs and other operating
costs.
2.51    The Standard Disbursement Profile for Technical Assistance credits is for a period of
seven years. The experience with the management of Technical Assistance projects in Uganda
shows a shorter disbursement profile which has been utilized for the proposed project. The Third
Technical Assistance Project disbursed in slightly over five years thereby being fully disbursed two
years ahead of the project closing date. The Economic and Financial Management Project has
disbursed 43% of the credit proceeds during the first two years of project implementation. The
proposed project finances activities which are to be implemented largely within the first three years
of project implementation. Hence, the five year disbursement schedule presented in the Table
below consists of a conservative projection of disbursement patterns.
Table 4: Estimated Disbursement Schedule (in US$ million)
IDA FY        1995/96     1996/97      1997/98       1998/99    1999/2000 12000/01
1st  2nd   1st  2nd   1st    2nd   1st    2nd   1st   2nd   1st
Sem   Sem   Sem   Sem   Sem    Sem   Sem    Sem   Sem   Sem   Sem
Per period   2.00  2.73   2.73  3.63   5.45   5.45  5.45   3.63  3.63  1.00   0.65
Cumulative  2.00  4.73   7.46 11.09  16.54  21.99 27.44  31.07 34.70 35.70 36.35
I. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
2.52    Management of Project Funds. Funds for the smooth operation of the project would be
managed through several types of accounts as described below:
(a) Two Special Accounts would be established in US dollars in a commercial bank in
Kampala, on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA as follows:
(i)   One Special Account of US$1,000,000 would support activities for all components
other than the Local Government Capacity Building component. Funds from this
Account could be advanced to two other Accounts for the use of the Ministry of
Public Service and the Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs, both of
which are likely to have operational expenses that would necessitate quick access
to funds. The two Ministries would provide an accounting of expenditures on a
monthly basis in order to facilitate the monthly requests for replenishment of the
main Special Account. This procedure is already in use between the EFM Project
Office and the Ministry of Public Service.



- 25 -
(ii)  One Special Account of US$500,000 would support activities for the Local
Government Capacity Building component.
(iii) The Special Accounts would be replenished on the basis of monthly withdrawal
requests covering aggregated monthly expenditures.  Payments of less than
US$50,000 for works and goods contracts and for consultancy contracts with firms
and payments of less than US$30,000 for consultancy contracts with individuals
would be documented through statements of expenditure, with the underlying
documentation available for inspection by IDA supervision missions.
(b) Government's local contributions to the project costs would be made into four project
accounts established at a local commercial bank.
(c) In order to ensure clear responsibilities for funds management, funds accessed directly
from the IDA Credit would be withdrawn and managed only by the main project office
in the CBS.
(d) Funds from both IDA and GOU would be managed to cover project expenditures in
accordance with the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) disbursement categories and
the percentage of reimbursement.
2.53    The Implementation Manual contains details regarding the methodology to be observed
in maintaining project accounts. The form of the audit and the Terms of Reference for annual
financial (and operational) audits by independent auditors, satisfactory to IDA are also included.
At negotiations, assurances were received that financial and operational audits would be
undertaken annually during project implementation; the format of the audit report would be
satisfactory to IDA; and audited accounts would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close
of the financial year.
2.54    Reporting.  Reports on project implementation, summarizing progress achieved,
difficulties encountered and changes and adjustments to be made would be submitted quarterly by
each participating agency to the Chairperson of the Technical Committee, through the Capacity
Building Secretariat. The Committee would meet at least once a quarter to review progress, make
appropriate decisions and assign responsibilities for any needed follow up action. The agenda and
the minutes of the meetings would be the responsibility of the GOU Task Manager and would be
transmitted to IDA, each quarter, after appropriate internal clearances, to assist with project
supervision. The Annual Work Program for the next FY and the Annual Report on Project
Performance for the previous FY would be considered by the Project Steering Committee, after
endorsement by the Technical Committee. The Project Steering Committee would meet at least
once every year and endorse/approve the reports prior to onward transmission to IDA. A final
implementation completion report would be prepared by GOU during the final semester preceding
project completion.
2.55    Reviews. At negotiations, assurances were received that GOU and IDA would jointly
conduct a mid-term review for the project within 18 months after project effectiveness but not later
than December 1996.



- 26 -
J. Supervision Plan
2.56    The resources required for supervision will tend to be above average since a multi-
disciplinary team (consisting of, in addition to the Task Manager, a public sector management
specialist, a local govermnent finance specialist, an accountant, a lawyer and a training specialist)
would be required. As shown in Annex 5, staff (including consultant) input will be needed for
approximately twenty four person weeks in the field per annum. At headquarters, upfront effort
will be required which will diminish over the life of the project; approximately an additional twenty
four weeks will be required at Headquarters during the first year of project implementation,
diminishing to eighteen weeks in the second year and reducing further to twelve weeks thereafter.
K. Environmental Impact
2.57    The project objectives and implementation will have no direct impact on the environment.
Minor civil works to be undertaken under the project will consist of building refurbishment.
L. Benefits and Risks
2.58.   Sustainability.  The project has been designed to support the key elements of
Government's reform agenda (i.e. civil service reform, decentralization and private sector
development) and the project components consequently are all considered necessary and have
linkages between them. GOU has prepared a Letter of Policy with regard to the various sectors
being assisted under the project which summarizes the above policy and legal framework (Annex
1). The receipt of a draft Letter of Policy containing GOU'sproposedpoliciesfor the sectors being
covered under the project was a condition of negotiation and receipt of the final Letter of Policy
was a condition of Board presentation. The overarching policy framework within which the
project is set is the GOU Policy on Technical Assistance and the GOU Capacity Building Plan.
Further: (a) the Central Government Capacity Building component supports GOU's Civil Service
Reform program which was defined by the PSRRC and for which an administrative structure has
been in place for a few years now; (b) the Local Government Capacity Building component
supports GOU's decentralization program as enacted in the Local Governments (Resistance
Councils) Statute of November 1993 and for which also an administrative structure is in place; and
(c) the Accountancy Strengthening component supports implementation of the Accountants Statute
of 1992. The project activities are also expected to be financially sustainable. In the Central
Government component, the project will assist in further rationalizing of the staffing complement
and assist in developing new policies for non-staffing operational expenditures. For the Local
Government component, the project will improve resource mobilization and management. In the
Legal Sector component, cost recovery for the Administrator-General and Registrar-General will
be an area of focus. For the Training Funds component, which is a pilot program, financial
sustainability would need to be addressed at a later stage if the concept is successful in
implementation.
2.59    Benefits. The project is expected to provide the following sustainable benefits. In the
area of public administration, the project would begin to focus the civil service on service delivery
and measurement of outputs provided to the public at large. There would also be increased
transparency in salary administration and increased accountability. The project would begin the
process of redressing the critical skill shortages in the accountancy and legal areas. These changes,
and those that will result from improvements in the commercial code and the operation of the
Judiciary should provide a stronger base for private sector development.  Additionally, the



- 27 -
emphasis on implementation skills and increased service delivery at the district/rural level, should
have a long term beneficial impact on the poor.
2.60    Risks. The underlying assumptions/risks are: (a) GOU's reform agenda will remain
unchanged in the medium-term and that the project is sustainable since it supports and is consistent
with GOU policy and legal frameworks for the sectors concerned; and (b) other measures being
undertaken outside of this project to support the CSR program will continue (i.e. the move towards
the Minimum Living Wage and the voluntary and involuntary retrenchment programs which have
been supported by donors). Other risks relate to decentralization which will relieve pressures on
limited capacities in the Central Government in the medium-term but in the short-term will
exacerbate pressures on the Central Government agencies implementing the reform. Finally, while
the disputes in the accountancy profession have been sorted out prior to commencement of the
project, some risks remain that a future recurrence may delay implementation of that component.
2.61    The project includes a considered program for mitigating some risks and maintaining
active supervision to redress problems should any of the considered risks arise.  First, in
recognition of the fact that the decentralization agenda is substantial and evolving, provision has
been made for a flexible approach to providing consultancy support for specific activities and also
for acquiring expert assistance on an as-and-when-needed-basis for the entire life of the credit.
Second, implementation risks would be monitored by the GOU team which has sufficient capacity
to address emerging issues. The project administration staff and staff involved with implementation
of two of the largest components have had previous experience dealing with IDA projects. Third,
IDA staff will maintain close liaison through a multi-disciplinary team which would be used to
supervise the project and Resident Mission staff would also be involved in project supervision on
an as-needed basis at the request of the IDA or GOU Task Managers for the project.



- 28 -
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Events occurring before Appraisal
3.1    The following events occurred before appraisal:
(a) appointment of GOU's Task Manager and Task Team for the project (para. 2.32).
B. Events prior to Negotiations
3.2    The following events preceded negotiations:
(a) amendment of Accountants Statute 1992 to remove three bodies, i.e. Association of
International Accountants of UK, the Institute of Chartered Managers and Administrators
(ICMA) and Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators (ICSA) from the Fifth
Schedule of the Statute and from the full membership category, holding of the first
Annual General Meeting of the Institute of the Certified Public Accountants of Uganda
and the election of the Institute's Governing Council (para. 1.23);
(b) receipt of a draft Policy Letter containing GOU's proposed policies for the sectors being
covered under the project (para. 2.58); and
(c) receipt of the initial draft of the Implementation Manual including Action Plans for all
componeints (para. 2.43).
C. Assurances at Negotiations
3.3    Assurances were received during negotiations that:
(a) the project would be carried out in accordance with a comprehensive Implementation
Manual, satisfactory to IDA, including Action Plans for all components. Commencing
from the second year of project implementation, the Action Plans would be refined and
submitted to IDA as annual work plans (including training plans) no later than the first
of April preceding the financial year covered in the work plan (para. 2.43);
(b) GOU would establish project accounts into which it would make the required local cost
contributions to the project through its established system of monthly release of funds
(para. 2.36);
(c) financial and operational audits would be undertaken annually during project
implementation; the format of the audit report would be satisfactory to IDA; and audited
accounts would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of the financial year
(para. 2.53);



- 29 -
(d) GOU and IDA would jointly conduct a mid-term review for the project within 18 months
after project effectiveness but not later than December 1996 (para. 2.55);
(e) a special review of the operations of the Training Funds component would be undertaken
after the end of the first year of operation of that component (para. 2.30); and
(f) standard procurement/consultancy recruitment processing timetables would be utilized
during project implementation (para. 2.49).
D. Conditions of Board Presentation
3.4    The following were the conditions of Board presentation:
(a) the receipt of a Policy Letter containing GOU's policies for the sectors being covered
under the project (para 2.58);
(b) the receipt of a revised draft Implementation Manual for the project including Action
Plans for all components (para. 2.43); and
(c) receipt of draft bidding documents and Letters of Invitation for all major contracts for the
first year's program (para. 2.49).
E. Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
3.5    The following are the conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) GOU depositing the Uganda Shilling equivalent of US$50,000 into the project accounts
(para. 2.36); and
(b) GOU providing to IDA the final satisfactory Implementation Manual for the project
including Action Plans for all components for the first year of project implementation
(para. 2.43).
F. Conditions of Disbursement
3.6    The following are the conditions of disbursement:
(a) for the entire legal sector component: GOU furnishing to IDA a statement defining its
Policy on Legal Education (para. 2.18);
(b) for the office of the Administrator-General: GOU furnishing to IDA a satisfactory
business plan covering at least the first three years of operation (para. 2.23);
(c) for the office of the Registrar-General: GOU furnishing to IDA a satisfactory business
plan covering at least the first three years of operation (para. 2.23);



- 30 -
(d) for the Training Funds component - agreement between GOU and IDA that:
(i)  the CBS staff have demonstrated capability to implement the Training Funds
component through (1) participation in the preparation and implementation of at
least two rounds of training under the Central or Local Government Capacity
Building components; and (2) satisfactory management of at least one round of
training under the Legal Sector Reform or Accountancy Strengthening
components; and
(ii) the detailed guidelines in the Implementation Manual pertaining to the
implementation of the Training Fund component have been reviewed and, if
warranted by the review, amended in the light of experience (para. 2.30);
(e) for the Accountancy component: (i) appointment of the Secretary of the ICPAU; (ii) the
Council of the ICPAU would have furnished to IDA a satisfactory business plan covering
at least the first three years of operation; and (iii) GOU and the ICPAU have concluded
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement (para. 2.25).
G. Recommendation
3.7    Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a credit of SDR 25
million or US$36.4 million to the Republic of Uganda on standard IDA terms.



- 31 -                        Annex 1
Page 1 of 7
Telephones: Minister:                                    Ministry of Finance and
Kampala 243054 & 232370 
Office: g<t ~~~~~~~~~~Economic Planning,
0O lice:
Kampala 234700=9 (10 L.nes)                     P.O. Box 7086
Telex:    61170                                          Kampala
Telegrams: 'FiNSEC.-                                     Uganda.
In any c_rrespondence on
thissu/ie  le   * / t L         THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
January 24, 1995
Mr E.V.K. Jaycox                                            'n  30i5-
Vice President                                         D,  t-
Washington D.C., USA                                        rn 53
Fax 202 477 6391                                       >r .
Dear Mr Vice President                                       _
Letter of Policy on Indigenous Capacity Buildct (
i=.   I am writing on behalf of the Government of the Republic of
Uganda to indicate Government's policy on indigenous institutional
capacity building in support of developing and implementing public
policy decisions and enhancing the growth of the private sector.
This letter also describes the actions that Government will
undertake to implement the proposed Institutional Capacity Building
Project (ICBP).
2.   I am very grateful for your initiative to bring both donors
and Sub Saharan African (SSA) Governments to focus on the urgent
need to address the issue of indigenous capacity building more
seriously and with a new approach. I am also happy to note that in
the spirit of your initiative, the process of preparing the ICBP
has been used to develop capacity for project design, understanding
of IDA's process for reviewing project design and significant
project ownership among the implementing agencies. I believe the
process has been extremely beneficial for us and look forward to
other IDA projects in Uganda being developed in a similar
participatory manner.
Background
3.   As you are aware, since May 1987, Uganda has been undertaking
macro-economic reforms.   Simultaneously,  several key structural
reforms with considerable synergy have also been undertake i.e
constitutional reform, civil service reform, decentralization to
local governments, public enterprise reform and private sector
development. All these activities have required considerable local
capacity.    Consequently,  activities  aimed  at  improving  the
cerformance of key economic management agencies and as well as
support to the main educational institutions in the country, were
undertaken although they have been going on only with limited
success. In many cases, resort to foreign experts to fill existing
1



- 32 -                            Annex 1
Page 2 of 7
manpower gaps did not provide for adequate sustainability to ensure
future availability of indigenous human resources and promotion of
local initiatives. The technical assistance provided by donors in
the past has not generated sufficient capacity to further develop,
manage and implement Government policies and push private sector
growth.   Indeed the private sector was not targeted for such
assistance and only benefitted from public sector human and
institutional resource development by attracting the best manpower
on account of better remuneration.
4.   Capacity building in the civil service first began through the
Civil Service Reform (CSR) program. Recognizing that the lack of
capacity in Uganda could as much be attributed to the lack of
sufficient remuneration and proper incentives as to the absence of
skilled staff, we began an aggressive effort to increase
remuneration in the Civil Service. We were constrained by the lack
of revenues collected by Government and, of necessity, increasing
salaries meant reducing the total complement of staff through
rationalizing Ministerial structures. Even as the CSR program was
being implemented, Uganda began a systemic evaluation of its
approach to Technical Assistance and also began determining, in
addition to the overall CSR program, the priority areas upon which
we would need to focus.
Overall Policy
5.   Our efforts culminated in Uganda's Policy on Technical
Assistance issued in May 1993 and the Capacity Building Plan
prepared in February 1994.   The major objectives of technical
assistance in Uganda, as stated in the Technical Assistance Policy,
which constitute the principles on which the ICB project was
designed include: (a) the establishment or strengthening of both
public  and  private  institutions  capable  of  implementing  or
facilitating   implementation   of   Government's   economic   and
development policies and strategies; (b) the development of human
resources to produce a skilled labor force, to staff and manage
these institutions; (c) the efficient use of both domestic and
external financial and human resources to enhance prospects for
development; (d) the reversal of the brain drain by mobilizing and
motivating available national manpower; (e) the transfer of
appropriate technology (f) the national execution of projects
supplemented by the use of local consultants and expatriates; and
(g) the extension of technical assistance to the private sector,
including Non-Governmental Organizations.
6.   To achieve the objectives listed in the Policy, a strategic
approach for the development of local expertise and institutions is
required including (a) provision of incentives to mobilize and
encourage the development of national expertise. Such incentives
would need to include financial packages and working tools and
facilities (b) promotion of employment of national experts and
consultants;  (c)  strengthening  of  the  role  of  counterpart
2



Annex 1
- 33~ -
Page 3 of 7
personnel; (d) allowing for the management and execution of project
activities by Government and under existing government structures;
and  (e) provision for local staff development and training at
national (public or private) training institutions and utilizing as
much as possible local expertise.
7.   The Uganda Capacity Building Plan identified areas requiring
attention in a longer term capacity building action program,
developed an overall institutional framework that will help in the
implementation of the program and provided a guide to donors in
their contributions towards capacity building initiatives.   The
priority areas identified for capacity building activities include:
(a) policy formation/analysis in government, starting with economic
policy; (b) manpower planning function and linking manpower
planning to the training function; (c) the legal and judicial
system; (d) role and contribution of women to policy development
and management; (e) local management training institutions; (f)
policy analysis outside Government; (g) the accountancy profession;
(h) the local consulting profession; (i) technical and vocational
education and industrial training capacity; (j) Non-Government
Organizations in their role as capacity builders for Community
Based Groups; and (k) the return of skilled expatriate Ugandans.
8.   As noted above, both the Technical Assistance and the Capacity
Building Plan emphasize the need to invest in creation of more
domestic managerial, technical and analytical human resources for
effective management of economic development in Uganda. We have
maintained this focus in the proposed project's emphasis on
increasing the country's ability to build its indigenous resources
base.
Institutional Capacity Building Project
9.   A number of the priority areas identified in the Plan are
already  receiving attention  from  IDA  and other donors.    In
preparing this project, special attention has been taken to avoid
duplication  of  efforts  with  other  donors    and  to  exploit
complementarity.   Further, the project builds on the successful
accomplishments of previous and ongoing IDA Technical Assistance
projects (i.e the Second and Third Technical Assistance Projects
and the ongoing Economic and Financial Management Project).  The
proposed project would address the areas of improving the
efficiency and effectiveness of Government operations under Central
and Local Governments, legal education and reform, strengthening
the accountancy profession and implementation skills training.
Strengthening Public Administration
10. The ongoing Civil Service Reform has arrested further decline
in the management of the Uganda Civil Service which was caused by
the past years of conflict and the attendant general mismanagement
of the economy.   While significant progress has been recorded,
3



34 -                              Annex 1
Page 4 of 7
several issues are yet to be dealt and these include (a)
insufficient pay and benefits; (b)inadequate, personnel management;
(c)an inadequate code of conduct for public officers; and (d)
inadequate facility management and maintenance culture.
11.  The project will continue support to the management of the
Civil Service Reform Program, through strengthening of the central
personnel management, records management, facility and asset
management and introduction of Results Oriented Management (ROM)
and performance recognition system, to improve on service delivery.
In line with our current approach which was discussed earlier, we
are committed to increasing remuneration to civil Service staff by
containing and reducing the total number of Civil Service staff. We
have reached agreement with IDA staff on the process to be used for
setting annual targets for Civil Service staff for each of the
fiscal years of project implementation, as part of the standard
process for consultations with IDA on public expenditure, including
the annual wage bill. These figures would be closely monitored and
would be updated annually on a three year rolling basis.
12.  We are committed to using the assistance received through the
proposed project to further streamline the Civil Service, improve
transparency and accountability and promote effective and efficient
service delivery.   In this regard we plan to:  (a)  implement a
revised salary structure commencing from July 1996; (b) issue a
Code of Conduct for all Civil Servants by July 1996 and monitor its
implementation thereafter; (c) undertake annual measurement of
Central  and  local  Government  outputs   and  service  delivery
commencing from July 1996 and introduce Results Oriented Management
into our budgeting procedures for use from the 1996/97 budget
cycle;    and  (d)  introduce  Facility Management  Policy into  our
budgeting procedures for use from the 1997/98 budget cycle.
13.  With  decentralization,  the  Local  Governments   (Resistance
Councils) Statute of November 1993 gave the responsibility for
provision of most services to the local governments.   However, it
is already clear that the state of physical facilities and the
inadequacy of the required skills would impede a successful
transition of service delivery from central to district management.
14.  The project will assist us in defining and implementing an
appropriate  system of  inter-governmental  finance.    We  plan  to
complete a study of the decentralization of the development budget
by June 1996 and commence implementation of the decentralization of
the development budget in a phased manner by July 1997.   We also
plan to complete a study to determine establishment of the District
Development Fund by June 1996 and issue a position statement on the
findings of the study by December 1996.
15.  The project will also strengthen local government financial
and personnel management structures, systems and procedures;
improve service delivery through introduction of ROM to local
4



- 35 -                            Annex 1
Page 5 of 7
government and provide basic tools and facilities for the district
administration offices.   Due to the assistance received under the
project, our local government will be able to: (a) prepare and have
audited local government accounts within the six months time limit
prescribed  in  Local  Governments  (Resistance  Councils)  Statute,
1993.    This  will  be phased  over  time  with  thirteen  districts
commencing in March 1995, twenty seven districts commencing in
March 1996 and for all districts commencing in March 1997; and (b)
computerize their payrolls including for staff formerly employed by
the Central Government.   Initially (i.e. by July 1995) this would
be achieved using Uganda Computer Services as an agent and from
July  1996  onwards,  would  be  undertaken  by  local  government
themselves with a completely decentralized payroll planned for June
1997.
Legal Sector Reform
16.  This area of public administration has a critical impact on
private sector development.  The flow of assistance to this sector
has been highly limited and lacked good co-ordination.   Uganda's
legal system has been underpinned by largely outdated legislation,
especially for laws regarding commerce, traffic and taxation, which
affect business, industry and private sector development. There is
an urgent need for modernization and for tackling the problem of
inherent weaknesses in the major legal institutions which increases
the difficulty of enforcement of these Laws.   We have recently
taken two key steps in this regards.   First, we have significantly
increased the remuneration of professional legal sector staff.
Second, we have established the Law Reform Commission to commence
the process of law reform.   However,  the sector continues to be
subject to the problems of insufficient staffing (for paralegal and
support staff), outdated office equipment and technology, the
absence of pre or in-service training, archaic legislation, out of
date law documents and the lack of office supplies.
17.  The proposed project will strengthen the legal framework for
private sector development, ensure availability of laws and legal
decisions, strengthen major institutions in the legal sector and
introduce improvements in legal education and training. A key area
which we intend to address is the system of legal education.   We
plan to undertake a legal education study and to provide our
positions statement on the findings of the study by July 1995.
Further, with the support received form the project, we plan to.(a)
by July 1996, publish as Bills (i.e. present to the legislature for
approval) the laws to be reformed to provide an impetus to private
sector development; and (b) by July 1998, publish the Law Reports
for the period 1958-1995. IDA and Government have agreed on the
laws to be reformed and in line with this agreement a comprehensive
listing has been forwarded to Washington.   Finally,  we plan to
pilot the introduction of cost recovery into the legal sector by
increasing the level of revenues as a percentage of costs for the
Departments of the Res:strar General and the Administrator General
and Public Trustee.
5



- 36 -                          Annex 1
Accountancy Development                                     Page 6 of 7
18. Government's commitment to sound financial management, full
accountability,   improved  business  ethics  and  improved  tax
compliance for the growing private sector have resulted in a very
high  demand  for  accountants   and  accounting  technicians.
Considering the small size of the accounting profession in Uganda,
accounting jobs have been filled by staff with no formal accounting
qualifications.
19. The 1992 Accountants Statute established the Institute
of Certified Accountants of Uganda (ICPAU) to regulate the
profession and maintain standards and the Public Accountants
Examination Board (PAEB) to conduct accounting examinations.
However, the Institute and the Board did not become operational for
almost two years. We have recently taken steps which have assisted
the ICPA in holding its first Annual General meeting and electing
its Governing Council to which I have also appointed a member.
20. The project would support the development of the ICPAU, the
establishment of a local professional qualification and examining
capability and the introduction of local accounting standards. As
a consequence of the support received under the project, the ICPAU
will be able to: (a) have its first intake of students for the
local professional accountancy examinations commencing by September
1996 and hold the first examinations by June 1997; and (b) publish
all local accounting and auditing standards by June 1998.
Implementation Skills Training
21.    Besides technical skills, general management and
implementation skills continue to hinder growth and competitiveness
of the private sector and the effective delivery of services by the
public sector. It has also been noted that besides donor support
and limited Government subsidies for a few public institutions,
there has been no planned development of local institutions.   A
change from a supply driven to a demand driven approach is urgently
required to ensure that the required skill needs are met.   In
addition, Government must plan for development of local training
institutions to provide the required quantity and quality of the
training services.
22. This project would pilot a method of acquiring the training
needs of public and private sector institutions (which would share
in the costs of training acquired) from local training suppliers
through a transparent and competitive bidding process. Assistance
will also be selectively given to identified weak training
institutions with potential for improvement, through staff training
and acquisition of study materials and equipment on a cost sharing
basis: up to 40 institutions would be assisted in this manner.
6



37 -                             Annex I
Conclusion                                                     Page 7 of 7
23. I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate
Government's commitment to the implementation of the policies,
programs and initiatives outlined in this Letter of Policy.  In
particular, I am referring to the strengthening and greater use of
local experts and institutions, the demand driven approach to local
and foreign training,  the government execution of the project
activities and the extension of assistance.to the private sector,
all in line with the country's Technical Assistance Policy and the
Capacity  Building  Plan.    I  must  also  emphasize  that  the
consolidation of the successes of the country's reform programs is
highly dependent on the progress in building greater indigenous
institutional and human capacity to develop and implement public
policy and support the growth of the private sector.
24.    On behalf of the Ugandan Government, and on my own behalf,
I wish to thank IDA for the assistance already provided in the
field of capacity building and to hope that this request for
additional assistance through the proposed UICB project will
receive favourable consideration.
Yours sincerely,
Mathew N. Rukikaire
Minister of State for Finance and Economic Planning
7



Annex 2
Page 1 of 6
UGANDA INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT: Implementation Schedule for Central Government Capacity Building Component
?4                       1995                       1996                        1997                       1998                        1999
Narne                                                 tr3   tr4  Qtr I  Qtr 2   tr3  Qtr 4  Qtr I  Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr I  Qtr 2  Qtr3 | Qtr 4  Qtr I I Otr 2 | Qtr 3 | Qtr4  Qtr I I Qtr 2 | Qtr 3
Introduction of ROM into GOU budgeting
Pilot FY95 Service Delivery Survey
Setting FY97 ROM Targets                                .                                        ,
FY96 Service Delivery Survey
Review FY96 Results/Set FY98 Targets                                                                                  /
FY97 Service Delivery Survey                                        .
Review FY97 Results/Set FY99 Targets                                .
FY98 Service Delivery Survey                                                                                                                                   7> <7>'
Improved Personnel Management
New Salary Structure
New Code of Conduct
Preparatory Work                                                .           /
Introduction
New Performance Recognition System                                   .c
Preparatory Work                                                .
Introduction
Civil Service Examinations
Study                                                                     .1
Introduction
National Records Center                                    _       
Prelinminary Study
ArchitcturalVEngg. Design Work                                      .       ___________
Construction                                                                                                           Y   t,b7 7j74x? 7
Facility and Physical Assets Management
Study
Introduction in Budgeting Process
Critical                           Progress                          Summary
_Noncritical                          Milestone              *Rolled UPN.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 6
UGANDA INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT: Implementation Schedule for Local Government Capacity Building Component
1994           T            1995            ]            1996                         1997             1           1998                         1
Name                                                   Qtr1       2 |r3  Qtr 4  Qtrt  Qtrt2 Qtr3  Qr4Qtr     Qtr 2 | Qtrt3 Qtr4Qtr I Qtr 2 | Qtr 3 | Qtr4 4Qtri   Qtr 2 1 Qt, 3 | Qtr4  Qtr I  Qtr 2
Inter-Governrnental Finance                                                        i
Decentralization of dcv. budg. - study
- commence inpln
Revolving Dev. Fund for Local Govts. - study
- GOU Position Statemern
Preparation of Resource endowment profiles
Fin. & Personnel Mgmt. Structures, Systems & Procedures                 _                                                                                 _
Preparation of final accounts                                       _                                                                          _
First thirteen districts                                       _         ;
Survey
Preparation of accourdstaudits
Twenty seven districts
Survey of 14 districts
Preparaion of accounts/audits                                                                                .c
All districts
Survey of 12 districts 
Preparation of accounts/audits
Co-np of accounts/personnel mgmt                                                                           I
Needs Assesnt study                                                     EI
Acquisition of hardwar,/software
atllation and training (phased)
Computerization of payrollfransfer to LG.                                             *         _
By UCS on behalf of districts
By districts (phased)
Pension System
Study
| Critical                          Progress                             Summary  _  _
|Noncritical                           Milestone              *Rolled Up  OC



Annex 2
Page 3 of 6
UGANDA INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT: Implementation Schedule for Local Government Capacity Building Component
1994                        1995                        1996                         1997                        1998
Name                                                    tr   Qr2  Qr3  Qtr 4  Qtr IQtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4                    Qtr 2    tr3   Qtr4  Qtr I  Qtr 2   Qtr 3   Qtr 4    tr   Qtr2 2Qtr3  Qtr 4   Itr   Qtr 2
GOU Position Statement
Implementation
Propose new Schemes of Service
Decentralized Records Management
Registry survey & records classification sys.
Refurbish re-equip & re-supply
Training of records mgmt. staff
Introduction of ROM into Local GoV.L budgeting
Pilot FY95 Service Delivery Survey
Setting FY97 ROM Targets
FY96 Service Delivery Survey
Review FY96 Results/Set FY98 Targets                                                                                                  /  ,
FY97 Service Delivery Survey                                                                                                                              . 
Review FY97 Results/Set FY99 Targets                                                               .  O
FY98 Service Delivery Survey
Civil Works and Retooling                                                                 I
Survey of civil works/retooling
Bidding and selection processes
Civil Works implementation
Delivery of equipment
Local GoVL Vehicle Loan Scheme
Establishment
Coimmencement of operations
Project Administration
Appointment and secondment of staff for training
MOLG staff operational for interface with IDA
Critical                            Progress                            Summary
Noncritical                         Milestone              *Rolled Up 



Annex 2
Page 4 of 6
UGANDA  INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT: Implementation Schedule for Legal Sector Reform Component
1994           1           1995                        1996            1           1997            1           1998                        1
Name                                                  Qtr2        4Qt3 |tr4  Qtr I  Qtr 2 | Qtr 3  Qtr4   Iir Otr2 | Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr I  Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr            t           Qtr I  Qtr 2
Legal Education & Training                                                          _
Study of system
Govt. Policy Statement on Legal Education
Law Revision & Reform                                                            I
Law Revision (USAID/ODA)
Law Reformr: PSD
Law Reforn: Domnestic Relations
Law Research & Reporting
Uganda Law Reports: 1984-95
Uganda Law Reports: 1971-1983
Uganda Law Reports: 1958-1970.
Institutional Strengthenig                                        _                                                                                                       'V
MJCA                                                                                                                         y                                                      I
Judiciary                                             .                                                                        _ _     _ _      _        _ 
Law Libranecs Study                                           1  
Inproved Cost Recovery
Abninir  Gaural Study
RegisraGccai Study
Submnission of 3 year Busins Plans
Critical                           Progress                           Summary
Noncritical                        Milestone             *Rolled Up  0
4



Annex 2
Page 5 of 6
UGANDA INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT: Implementation Schedule for Accountancy Strengthening Component
1994           [           1995                        1996            J           1997                        1998 
Name                                                  4tr2    rS          IQtr4jQtil  Qtr2  Qtr3  Qtr4    rIQtr22  Qtr3  Qtr4$Qtrl  Qtr2 9lr3  QuQtr           Iri 4tr2I    Qtr 3Qtr4jQtr l         2
ICPAU Start-up of Operations                                             i       I i
Revision to Statute
Selection of Secretary
List of CPAs and Associate members
Issue of practicing certificatea/license.
Twinning Partner selection
Code of Ethics established
Ugandan Acctg/Auditing standards (phased)
CPE courses developed & introduced
Development of Loca Exaniination
Structure, regitraion & exemption criria
First year study program
Exaniners recruited and trained                                             .                                                                                                       I
FirstCPA exa   held                                                   
Critical                           Progress                           Summary
Noncritical                        Milestone  *                        Rolled Up  Q



In 
0%
CD
Eg
*0
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.C
0~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
U-
010
C -e
0-
-                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
0)
a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-a
C
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0A
U~~~~C 



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 6
UGANDA INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
SUMMARY MONITORING INDICATORS
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT CAPACITY BUILDING COMPONENT
Major Activities                     Expected Impact            Indicator of achievement of project   Timing
objectives                        Targets
Streamlining the Civil Service      Improved service delivery from Central  Improvements in service delivery  Annually
Government Ministries                indicators based on annual         starting
measurements                      from July
1996
Enhanced focus on output delivery    Introduction of Results Oriented   Fin Year
within specified time targets        Management in GOU budgeting        1996/97
l_____________________________________  processes                        onw ards
Improved personnel management       Fair, transparent and equitable terms  New Salary Structure             July 1996
and conditions of service            Code of Conduct for Civil Servants
Better productivity from Civil Servants   Civil Service Performance
l_________________________________    Recognition   System
Implementation of Facilities and    Improved facility management and      Introduction of Facility Management  Fin Year
Physical Asset Management Policy    better management of GOU assets       Policy into GOU budgeting          1997/98
abroad                               processes                          onwards
Inventory of equipment and
retooling needs in central ministries
Strengthened Records Management     Improved management of GOU            Commencement of operations of the   December
institutional memory                 Records Center                     1997
More timely and complete access to   Trained Records Staff
records and files in Central ministries



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6
UGANDA INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
SUMMARY MONITORING INDICATORS
LOCAL GOVERNMENT CAPACITY BUILDING COMPONENT
Major Activities                Expected Impact           Indicator of achievement of    Timing
project objectives             Targets
Defining the system of Inter-    Improved Resource Allocation    Phased decentralization of
Governmental Finance                                             development budget
- Study                       June 1996
- Commencement of impln.      July 1997
Preparatory work for
establishment of revolving fund
- Study                       June 1996
- GOU Position Statement      Dec 1996                            4-
U,
Computerization of Accounts/    Improved financial/personnel     Implementation of new financial  June 1997
Personnel Management           management and reporting         /personnel management system
Preparation of Final Accounts    Timely financial reporting      Final accounts audited within
commencing with first two years of  six months of end of fin. year
decentralization                  - first 27 districts           March 1996
- all districts               March 1997
Computerization of District    Improved payroll administration   Payroll prepared by UCS on     July 1995
Payroll                                                          behalf of districts
Payroll prepared completely at   June 1997
district level



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 6
UGANDA INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
SUMMARY MONITORING INDICATORS
LOCAL GOVERNMENT CAPACITY BUILDING COMPONENT
Major Activities                  Expected Impact           Indicator of achievement of    Timing
project objectives           Targets
Streamlining Local Governments   Improved service delivery from     Improvements in service       Annually
Local Governments                  delivery indicators          starting from
Enhanced focus on output delivery                               July 1996
within specified time targets
Introduction of Results      Fin Year
Oriented Management in       1996/97
GOU budgeting processes      onwards
Retooling                        Improved working facilities        Improvements to District      June 1997
Administrations including                                         C
registries
Improved revenue collection        Commencement of Local        Jan 1996
Government Vehicle Loan
Scheme



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6
UGANDA INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
SUMMARY MONITORING INDICATORS
LEGAL SECTOR REFORM COMPONENT
Major Activities                   Expected Impact              Indicator of achievement of      Timing Targets
project objectives
Improvement in Legal         Increased local supply response for      New policy on Legal Education   July 1995
Education and Training       training and better trained lawyers
Law Reform                   Improved legal and regulatory framework   Published bills presenting draft   July 1996
for Private Sector Development           revised laws for PSD
Published bill presenting draft    Dec 1996
domestic relations law
Law Reports                  Availability of up to-date legal decisions  Law Reports from 1958 to     December 1996
1995
Institutional Strengthening of   Better functioning legal system      Reduction in backlog of court    Ongoing; annual
MJCA and Judiciary                                                    cases.                          monitoring
Administrator General        Increased cost recovery, quicker         Increasing ratio of estates     Annual targets to
disposition of estates and improved      liquidated & increased rate of    be established in
management of trust funds                return on trust funds invested,   three year
decreasing support from GOU.   Business Plan
Registrar General            Increased cost recovery, more timely     Increasing ratio of             Annual targets to
registration, quicker querying of records    registrations/queries handled  be established in
within 24 hrs & increased      three year
follow-up of dormant           Business Plan
companies, decreasing support
from GOU



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 6
UGANDA INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
SUMMARY MONITORING INDICATORS
ACCOUNTANCY SECTOR STRENGTHENING COMPONENT
Major Activities             Expected Impact         Indicator of achievement of        Timing Targets
project objectives
Introduction of CPA          More qualified accountants   Establishment of syllabi and  September 1996
examinations                 More students able to study  commencement of courses
for accounting examinations  First CPA examinations        June 1997
Improved Accounting and      Adoption and use of national   Publishing of national      June 1998
Auditing in Uganda           Accounting and Auditing      standards according to phased
Standards                    schedule
Increased transparency in    Introduction of Continuing    Commencing from July 1996
preparation of financial     Professional Education                                                 co
statements                   courses
Sample review of audited     Commencing from July 1997
financial statements to be
undertaken by Institute as part
of practice certificate renewal
Code of Ethics and           Improved quality of          Establishment of grievance    Establishment by June 1996
disciplinary process         accountants                  mechanism
established                                               Timely handling of complaints  Annual monitoring from July
from members of the public    1996
International Acceptability of   Recognition in the Region and   Membership of IFAC and  July 1996
Ugandan Professional         internationally               ECSAFA
Accountancy Qualification                                  Acceptance of the ICPAU      June 2000
qualification by other
accounting bodies



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 6
UGANDA INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
SUMMARY MONITORING INDICATORS
IMPLEMENTATION SKILLS TRAINING FUNDS COMPONENT
Major Activities                Expected Impact          Indicator of achievement      Timing
of project objectives     Targets
Training for public and      Better trained public and private  Improved relevance of     June 1997
private sector beneficiaries  sector employees                  training to job skills.   onwards
Impact evaluation
measurements to be
provided both by trainees
and by CBS
Delivery of up to 70 years
of training in 1996/97 and
up to 140 years in
1997/98
Strengthening of training    Increased ability to compete for   Total of up to 40         June 1997
suppliers from Fund II       contracts at later stage of operation   suppliers strengthened  onwards
of Training Funds component
Up to 70% of suppliers
strengthened under Fund
II winning contracts under
later phases of operation



ANNEX 4
Institutional Capacity Building Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Total Including Contingencies
(US$ Million)
Central     Local
Govt.      Govt.      Legal
Capacity   Capacity    Sector    Training   Accountancy        PPF           SPPF
Building   Building    Reform      Funds    Strengthening   Refinancing   Refinancing    Total
1. Investment Cost
A. Civil Works                       1.41        1.37        -           -            -              -            -           2.78
B. Vehicles, Equipment & Furniture   1.44       5.46        2.70       0.80          0.07            -            -           10.46
C. Training
In-Country Training             1.77       4.32       0.60        5.16         0.16            -             -          12.02
Overseas Training                -          -          1.95       0.57           -             -             -           2.53
Subtotal                        1.77       4.32       2.56        5.74         0.16            -             -          14.55
D. Consultants' Services
Local Consultants               0.63       2.53        1.38       0.99         0.40           0.35         0.17          6.45
Other Consultants               1.05       0.52       0.72        0.52         0.26            -             -           3.06
Subtotal                        1.68       3.04       2.10        1.51         0.66          0.35          0.17          9.51                  l
E. Printing                           0.41         -        0.91         -           0.08            -             -           1.40                 U
Total Investement Cost                  6.71       14.19       8.27        8.04         0.97          0.35          0.17        38.70                  
IEL Recurrent Cost
A. Allowances & Incremental Salaries  0.67       0.34       0.41        0.09           -            0.01         0.02          1.53
B. O&M                                0.42       0.20       0.32        0.32         0.12           0.14           -           1.51
C. Office Supplies                     -           -        0.41        0.01         0.02            -             -           0.44
Total Recurrent Costs                   1.09        0.53       1.14        0.42         0.14          0.15          0.02          3.49
Total Project Costs                     7.81       14.72       9.41        8.46         1.11          0.50          0.19         42.19
Taxes                                   0.37        0.72       0.24        0.47         0.05            -             -           1.85
ForeignExchange                          3.30       6.59       6.19        1.90         0.39           0.15           -          18.52
L:\mimi\iaAboarxtbl.doc



- 51 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
UGANDA INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
IDA Supervision Input
1.    Staff (including consultant) input will be needed for approximately 24 person weeks in the field
per annum; the composition of the IDA team is listed in the attached Table. At headquarters, upfront
effort will be required which will diminish over the life of the project; approximately an additional 24
weeks will be required at Headquarters in year 1, diminishing to 18 weeks in year 2 and reducing further
to 12 weeks thereafter.  These are financed out of IDA's administrative budget and NOT from the
proceeds of the project credit.
Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
2.    The GOU Task Manager will act as the central link between the component managers and IDA;
however, direct lines of communications between component mangers and IDA technical staff working
on each component will also exist.
3.    Reports on project implementation, summarizing progress achieved, difficulties encountered and
changes and adjustments to be made would be submitted quarterly by each participating agency to the
Chairperson of the Technical Committee, through the Capacity Building Secretariat. At a minimum, each
component report should describe in general terms the status of the component, and deal with the status
of inputs (i.e. procurement, consultants and training), the process of implementation (i.e. any particular
problems that may have/be occurring, and the steps being taken to resolve the difficulties) and the outputs
(i.e. tasks commenced/completed). Further, with regard to both inputs and outputs, the progress towards
objectives should be quantified as far as possible or where this is not possible compared with the outputs
listed in Annex 3. Also, some indication should be provided on the objectives for the next quarter, and
the resources being deployed to meet these targets. As the quarterly report serves not only as a guide for
progress but as a diagnostic tool for GOU and IDA, it is important for component managers to candidly
outline their difficulties.
4.    Prior to each field mission by IDA, the GOU Task Manager will set up a timetable of key
meetings, as agreed between the Project Manager and the mission leader. The GOU Task Manager will
also be responsible for notifying all component managers of the dates of missions, and for ensuring the
availability of component managers/staff for discussions.
5.    The GOU Task Manager will be responsible with the IDA Task Manager for the organization and
conduct of the Mid-Term Review. A project evaluation consultant would be appointed to undertake a
detailed analysis of project implementation and present a draft report to the Government and IDA.



- 52 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
TABLE: TIMETABLE FOR IN-COUNTRY SUPERVISION
APPROXIMATE  ACTIVITY                         EXPECTED SKILLS (STAFF WEEKS)
DATE
July 1995       Supervision Mission cum       Task Manager (2)
Project Launch Workshop      Public Sector Management Specialist (2)
Local Government Specialist (2)
Legal Counsel (2)
Accountant (2)
l _______________  ____________________________   Training    Specialist  (2)
January 1996    Supervision Mission           Task Manager (2)
Public Sector Management Specialist (2)
Local Government Specialist (2)
Legal Counsel (2)
Accountant (2)
Training Specialist (2)
l July 1996     Supervision Mission           Task Manager (2)
Public Sector Management Specialist (2)
Local Government Specialist (2)
Legal Counsel (2)
Accountant (2)
Training Specialist (2)
January 1997    Supervision Mission           Task Manager (2)
Public Sector Management Specialist (2)
Local Government Specialist (2)
Legal Counsel (2)
Accountant (2)
Training Specialist (2)
July 1997       Supervision Mission           Task Manager (2)
Public Sector Management Specialist (2)
Local Government Specialist (2)
Legal Counsel (2)
Accountant (2)
Training Specialist (2)
January 1998    Joint GOU/IDA Mid-Term        Task Manager (2)
Review cum Supervision       Public Sector Management Specialist (2)
Mission                      Local Government Specialist (2)
Legal Counsel (2)
Accountant (2)
Training Specialist (2)



- 53 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
APPROXIMATE  ACTIVITY                          EXPECTED SKILLS (STAFF WEEKS)
DATE
July 1998        Supervision Mission           Task Manager (2)
Public Sector Management Specialist (2)
Local Government Specialist (2)
Legal Counsel (2)
Accountant (2)
._________________________    Training  Specialist (2)
January 1999     Supervision Mission           Task Manager (2)
Public Sector Management Specialist (2)
Local Government Specialist (2)
Legal Counsel (2)
Accountant (2)
Training Specialist (2)
July 1999        Supervision Mission           Task Manager (2)
Public Sector Management Specialist (2)
Local Government Specialist (2)
Legal Counsel (2)
Accountant (2)
._____________________      _ .  .Training  Specialist (2)
January 2000     Final Supervision Mission cum   Task Manager (2)
Implementation Completion     Public Sector Management Specialist (2)
Review Preparation Mission    Local Government Specialist (2)
Legal Counsel (2)
Accountant (2)
Training Specialist (2)



Annex 6
UGANDA INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION STRUCTURE
Project Steering Committee
Technical Committee                         Capacity
Building
Project Admin.   Secretariat
|Ministry of ||Ministry of |        |Minis;try of  ||Instt. of |
Public           Local              Justice and       CPAs of
Service       Government           Constt. Affairs     Uganda
Central          Local                   Legal          Accountancy      Training
Government       Government              Sector         Strengthening    Funds
Capacity Bulding   Capacity Bulding      Reform         Component        Component
Component        Component               Component
Project Steering Committee consists of: PS/Secretary to the Treasury (Chairman),;PS, Ministry of Local
Government; PS/Solicitor General ; Secretary to the Administrative Reform Commission and President
Institute of CPAs of Uganda. Technical Committee is chaired by GOU Task Manager and consists of
Component Managers.



- 55 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 8
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT CAPACITY BUILDING COMPONENT
Background
1.    The economic mismanagement and political chaos of the 1970s in Uganda severely decimated one
of the most respected and effective public administrations in Eastern Africa. With migration, Ugandan
human capacity was further eroded. Through the Economic Recovery Program (ERC) launched by
government in 1987, the decline in standards and efficiency has largely been arrested. The initial attempts
at reform focused on reducing the numbers of part time employees and rationalizing the numbers, roles
and functions of ministries. Then, in October 1990, a policy framework for a comprehensive civil service
reform was presented by the Public Service Review and Reorganization Commission (PSRRC). The
Commission's report, which included some 255 specific recommendations, concluded that the Ugandan
Civil Service had been marked not only by its bloated structure, but also by inefficiency and poor
performance. Key problems were: inadequate pay and benefits; poor management skills; dysfunctional
civil service organization; and inadequate personnel management and training. This lead to abuse of
office and Government property; moonlighting and corruption; lack of discipline; an erosion of rules and
regulations; obsolete procedures; lack of appropriate systems; thin managerial and technical skills; poor
public service attitudes; and massive bureaucratic red tape.
2.    In 1992 the major recommendations of the Commission were adopted as a framework for reform
through Sessional Paper No. 1. The chosen strategy includes: rationalization and downsizing of the civil
service, reform of remuneration policy and payroll administration, restructuring of ministries and
decentralization of governmental functions and development and introduction of improved personnel
management systems. To date, a number of steps have been taken towards creating a small, well
motivated and remunerated civil service capable of delivering timely and improved service to the public.
These achievements include:
a.    significant real increases in salaries (although salary levels are still far below the Minimum
Living Wage prescribed by the PSRRC). Further pay reforms including monetization of non-
monetary benefits, in particular transport and housing, is planned to be implemented
commencing in fiscal year 1994/95.
b.     a reduction in the number of ministries from  38 in 1989 to 21 currently, and the
rationalization of ministerial structures to remove duplications and overlaps as well as to
reduce encroachment on the private sector.
c.    significant progress has also been achieved in the removal from the payroll of ghost workers,
redundant employees, the overaged and the poor performers. 1990 payroll payments were for
320,000 employees. Following detailed censuses, spot checks, and a concerted effort at
computerization of the payroll and the development of establishment position codes, the
Central Government Civil Service staff have been reduced to about 148,000 as of December
1994.



- 56 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 8
Remaining Issues
3.     As has been noted above, over the last few years, the CSR program has moved on a broad front
to address several issues which has provided a strong underpinning for Government's continued effort
at reform. However, given the magnitude of the problems the Government started out with, the following
items (in each of the areas initially identified by the PSRRC) still remain:
a. Insufficient Pay and Benefits. Improving basic pay still remains the most important prerequisite
for a more effective civil service. Even after several successive salary increments since 1986,
wages and salaries in government are still extremely low compared to the private sector and
parastatal organizations, and do not come near the Minimum Living Wage proposed by the
PSRRC. These problems are further exacerbated by major design weaknesses in the current pay
and grading system which add lack of equity and transparency to the basic issue of low pay.
Shortcomings include: (i) 64 different grade levels covering all civil service employees; (ii) 76
different types of allowances paid in the civil service; (iii) progression through the salary scale
based purely on length of service in the job; (iv) compressed salary structure with a ratio from
the minimum of the lowest grade to the maximum of the top grade of only 1:6.8; and (v) equally
uncompressed remuneration structure (i.e. including all non-monetary allowances and benefits)
of 1:100.
b. Insufficient Management and Supervisory Skills. The standard or quality of management, as
distinct from administration, is very low in Public Service and this deficiency constitutes one of
the most serious obstacles to achievement of modern methods of management. Past training
efforts in the civil service were not dynamic and innovative enough to effect the much needed re-
orientation that Uganda's present problems and programs call for. There is also a problem with
the "culture" of the civil service, which at one time was one of the best in Africa; new
management techniques which were introduced have not been seriously implemented.
c. Inadequate Personnel Management and Training.  The personnel management function in
Uganda's Civil Service is carried out by the Ministry of Public Service; the Public Service
Commission; line Ministries/ Departments. It has been the Public Service Commission's
responsibility, in theory, to recruit, terminate and discipline civil service staff. However, in
reality, for the personnel processes to work, there must be substantial input and cooperation from
the line ministries. However, due to over-centralization, the service is unable to deal with
disciplinary cases at their source and when identified, such cases take inordinately long to
resolve.  The response at the working level has been for managers to simply transfer
undisciplined civil servants to other sections, ministries or departments.
d. Lack of an adequate Code of Conduct for Public Officials. While the problems of (and the
solutions for) administrative inefficiency can be seen in purely technical terms as described above,
it is clear that administrative failure in Uganda involved far more than technical incompetence.
It is commonly accepted that the collapse of the 1970s and 1980s was caused by a political
breakdown rather than inappropriate administrative structures. Military dictatorship destroyed all
mechanisms of political and financial accountability and thus eliminated effective management,
monitoring and control. Corruption and malingering were no longer punished but became an
intrinsic part of the reward system, fully exploited by everyone. The problem was not that
regulations were outmoded but that existing regulations were systematically abused by managers



- 57 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 8
and staff alike. Government became little more than a criminal conspiracy against the public.
Thus improved performance will not only depend on better training and management systems or
revised regulations, but on the creation of an accountability system which will expose and punish
corruption and incompetence and recognize and reward effective performance.
e. Inadequate Facility Management and Maintenance Culture. The situation found by the PSRRC
of resource deprivation i.e. Government offices trying to manage without the most basic
equipment and ordinary office furniture such as chairs, tables, functional typewriters or copying
equipment has improved but not by much. At that time, the lack of support infrastructure
reflected the massive looting during the war years. While there has since been a build-up of
equipment, etc., there continues to remain a poor nmaintenance culture in the service. Inadequate
attention is paid to the recurring cost implications of acquiring new assets and many buildings
from which the Civil Service operates are in a poor state of disrepair.
Previous and Ongoing Assistance
4.    Previous efforts by Government and related support from donors, in particular UNDP, ODA and
IDA have, of necessity, focused on restoring efficiency to the core aspects of Government business (e.g.
planning, budgeting, control of financial and monetary resources) and to get the reform measures
implemented. The magnitude of the problems and the need to re-establish critical functions required a
focus on immediate results; this resulted in significant use of expatriate assistance. The situation having
stabilized, it is now appropriate to widen the focus from short term problem solving to building
indigenous capacity i.e. lasting systems and skills.
Program and Component Objectives
5.    The principal objective is to continue the Civil Service Reform program in support of the
Government's broader program of reforming and modernizing key public institutions and the personnel
staffing, thus helping to sustain the economic and social reform program which the government has
initiated. This would be achieved by further assisting Government in continuing to address the remaining
key issues in the Civil Service.
Component Description
6.    There are several ongoing activities which need to be brought to completion. Also, support needs
to be provided to understanding and developing the next stage of the reform process. The proposed credit
will finance a time slice consisting of selected components of the program. Actions to be financed by
the IDA credit are limited to those which can be effectively completed within the project horizon, and
which will result in lasting improvements in key areas of civil service performance. It also takes into
account and supplements existing and forthcoming parallel funding from other donors. The project
component will concentrate on:
a. streamlining of the civil service. This includes management of the Civil Service Reform
program, implementation of the Ministerial Reviews and strengthening Personnel Management
function in central ministries;
b. improving the transparency of personnel management through implementation of a new salary



- 58 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 8
structure, revision of Standing Orders, introduction of a Code of Conduct and a Performance
Recognition Program; and
c. focusing the civil service on effective service delivery through the introduction of Results
Oriented Management;
d. focusing the civil service on efficient service delivery through developing the Central
Government's capability for facility/asset management and records management; and
e. training for Improved Performance (Skill Building).
Streamlining the Civil Service
7.     Support to the streamlining of the civil service would be provided at two levels. First, the overall
program being managed through the Ministry of Public Service would be supported especially through:
(i) improving central personnel management systems; and (ii) supporting key bodies and staff undertaking
a civil- service-wide classification of personnel from the perspective of identifying candidates for
termination as a result of restructuring/redundancy activities. Second, at the level of individual ministries,
the project would support: (i) implementation of Ministerial restructuring plans; and (ii) strengthening
Ministry level personnel management functions.
8. Improving Central Personnel Management. The improvements made so far in the central government
need to be further consolidated through improvements in central systems, in particular improved
personnel management practices and accountability. In light of the decentralization program and the
transfer of several responsibilities to the District Service Committees, it is also necessary to redefine the
role of the Public Service Commission.  The project would support Technical Assistance for the
introduction of examinations as a means for selection and staff promotion. The staff of the PSC would
be trained to take over the administration of examinations at a later date.
9.     Supporting Key Bodies and Staff. The focus of implementation within MPS has rested with a core
team of expatriates, national experts and ministry staff. In MPS, the Senior Advisor for Civil Service
Reform (an expatriate) and two national experts, who provide the necessary technical and advisory
services, are being supported from ODA funding. In addition to the ongoing management of the reform,
the increased visibility of the CSR program necessitates its transparency should be improved so that
various stakeholders are informed on a timely and regular basis about the progress of CSR. This process
has already begun on a limited basis vis-a-vis the external stakeholders (i.e. the donors and multi-lateral
agencies); and it now needs to be expanded to include domestic constituencies. The primary modality
is to strengthen the in-house function in order to able to package and disseminate infornation to all the
relevant target groups. The credit will be used to procure specialized services and provision of the related
publicity equipment and publishing of civil service newsletter and other information tools.
10.   Through the Economic and Financial Management Project, IDA has funded the activities of The
Implementation and Monitoring Board (TIMB) which screens all civil servants to assess their effectiveness
and decides on priorities among staff to be retrenched and the Project Implementation Committee (PIC)
for CSR. This support will continue under the credit which will, as in the past, fund incentives and
allowances for TIMB and would also provide incentives to critical MPS staff and key staff from other
central ministries involved in the implementation of the reform.



- 59 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 8
11.   Implementation of Ministerial Reviews.  The first five ministerial restructuring plans (or
Ministerial Reviews) have been under implementation for some time now. For the balance of sixteen
ministries/offices, implementation of the restructuring plans is yet to commence or at an early stage. It
is apparent that the first five ministries are experiencing problems that have hampered the timely
implementation of the new structures. PIC together with the Inspectorate Department of MPS would
establish the reasons for the delay in implementation and the results of this assessment would be used to
design the assistance provided to the Ministries. The nature of the assistance would be tailor-made based
on the recommended changes in the ministerial reviews, the size, complexity and the current management
capability of each ministry.  The credit would finance relevant management of change and/or
implementation capability for each of the remaining sixteen ministries/offices.
12.   The current restructuring plans of ministries do not take into account the impact of
decentralization on the operations of various ministries. This assessment can only be made after February
1995 when the structures and approved establishment positions of the District structural reviews are
known. At that time, the ministerial restructuring plans would be restructured and revised based on the
inputs from the Districts. The credit would finance a short term consultancy study to review the outcome
of all the district reviews and its impact on the role to be performed by the central ministries. The output
would be a new structure and establishment for the central government.
13.   Strengthening of the personnel managementfunction in each Ministry. A pilot exercise has already
been initiated, with assistance from ODA, to develop and install computerized personnel information
system in five ministries. The credit would finance extending this system to the remaining ministries.
Improving the Transparency of Personnel Management
14.   New Salary Structure, Schemes of Service and Salary Administration Manual. Currently, work
on salary structures is being undertaken with technical assistance funded by UNDP. Simultaneously, job
grading issues are being addressed by developing a job information database consisting of job
descriptions, specifications and requirements. This will help introduce fairness and transparency into the
civil service salary administration and job evaluation. Based on this ongoing work, it is expected that
by July 1996, GOU would introduce a new salary structure for the Civil Service. At that time, the
project would assist in developing the corresponding schemes of service as well as a salary administration
manual to implement the new policies. Subsequently, staff will need to be trained in the use of the Salary
Administration Manual and the use of the schemes of service in succession planning and staff
development. To accomplish this, the credit will finance a short term consultant, counterpart training,
office technology, dissemination of policies and procedures and allowances.
15.   In order to address the issue of transparency and accountability, the following activities would
be undertaken:
a. new Standing Orders and a Code of Conduct for all Civil Servants would be issued by July 1996.
The credit would support a short term consultancy to revise the Standing Orders, separated by
the three services, as well as prepare a Code of Conduct.
b. Design and conduct of trainingfor the MPS Department of Inspection staff. The staff in the newly
formed MPS Department of Inspection would play a crucial role in the broader monitoring of the
implementation of the reform program and more specifically on issues of accountability. An



- 60 -
ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 8
inspection guidance manual would be developed for the Department in the execution of its
functions. This manual will form part of the training materials in inspection techniques and
methodology. The staff will also be exposed, through study tours, to the experience of other
countries with strong and effective inspection function. The primary modality will be through a
short term consultant to develop the inspection manual and provide the initial training in
inspection techniques and methodology.
16.   A Performance Recognition Program would be instituted by July 1996 which would recognize
outstanding performance by groups and individuals in different categories and would in a timely and
substantial way reward outstanding performance and thereby provide role models for excellent
performance. The credit would finance a study to establish the program.
Focus on Effectiveness: Emphasis on Service Delivery/introduction of Result Oriented Management
17.   A new concept of management would be introduced into the service to make staff more results
oriented and concentrate their attention and resources on the achievement of definite objectives within
specified time targets. In applying this concept, objectives and achievement targets would be determined
for each ministry, department and subordinate unit and for individual officers. To make the technique
more relevant, the process would be linked to the annual budgeting programming exercise during which
ministries set and agree with the Treasury on their financing proposals. The introduction of this technique
of management will comprise of two elements:
a. To assist in future monitoring of the quantitative indicators which would be developed and
measured through the Action Planning Workshops, a baseline study would be conducted to
establish the existing level of service delivery. At the same time, it is also necessary to measure
the perception of the users regarding changes in service delivery; a survey instrument would be
developed for use with the baseline study as well as for future annual use from July 1996
onwards. The credit would finance a short term consultancy and travel in the development of
the survey instrument.
b. A series of sensitizing, team building and action planning workshops for all senior managers in
central government. The output of the workshops would consist of realistic and measurable
performance standards and indicators by which to measure service delivery to the public from
each Ministry. Based on the standards and indicators, ROM would be integrated into GOU's
budgeting procedures from the 1996/97 budgeting cycle.
Focus on Efficiency: Strengthening Support Services
18.   Strengthening Records Management. The government, with assistance from ODA, has initiated
a program to improve records management in central ministries. During the first phase of the program
(1987-89) registries in five key ministries/departments were rehabilitated, and staff training for staff was
also provided, and the capacity of the Records and Information Management Department (RIMD), within
the Ministry of Public Service was improved to provide the necessary technical and advisory services to
other ministries. The second phase of the program (1994-96) has commenced with another lot of seven
ministries. The program will assist in establishing a system of providing timely access to information and
the establishment of an institutional memory. While the registry functions in ministries are being
addressed, the problem of whether to store semi-active records remains unaddressed. At the moment,



- 61 -
ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 8
these semi-active records are being retained in the registries resulting in congestion/overflow thus taking
up space which is required for current records. This exacerbates the retrieval problems. It is necessary
to have a purpose built facility where the semi-active records can be sorted out and the historical and
valuable ones transferred to the Archives. The credit will provide funds to support training and the
construction of the National Records Centre by June 1997.
19.   An initial assessment of the space requirements, security requirements and costs has been
completed by a short-term expert funded from the Project Preparation Facility. This assignment has
resulted in Terms of Reference for an architectural/engineering firm to design the detailed specifications
and supervise the actual construction.
20.   Strengthening Facility and Physical Assets Management. One of the key issues of facilities and
assets management which remains unaddressed in the Ugandan context is the necessity for preventive
facilities maintenance. Because of lack of a maintenance capability, the Government incurs substantially
higher costs for breakdown maintenance in addition to having physical facilities in a state of disrepair.
A study would be undertaken to develop an optimal approach to ensure facility and asset management,
and provide training to officer managers, transport officers and other concerned officers. The study
would review the best approach for managing in-country assets and would facilitate the issuance of the
necessary policies and recommendations on the implementation of these policies through the budgeting
processes from the 1997/98 budgeting cycle onwards. It would also review the utilization of Ugandan
Government assets abroad and recommend the optimal size of assets required and approaches to managing
those assets.
Training for Improved Performance (Skill Building)
21.    Training to Support the Implementation of the CSR program.  A civil service training plan for
1995/96 has been prepared. It needs to be prioritized to emphasize more problem solving, in-country
training in critical skill areas. Beyond 1996/97, based on the outcome of the ministerial reviews, a
complete and integrated Training Needs Assessment (TNA) for the central government would be
undertaken and a five year Central Government Training Plan would be developed to increase the civil
servants' ability to deliver timely and high quality services to the public. The TNA and the Training Plan
will be developed by a short term consultant and approved by the Project Implementation Committee
(PIC). Most of the training would be problem solving oriented, skill building, and conducted in-country.
In general, most of the training for the Civil service would be undertaken through the Training Funds
component of the project. However, Senior Management Training is considered to be a critical activity
which would be funded under this component. A series of workshops will be conducted to address the
inadequacy of management and supervisory skills at the senior levels (Permanent Secretaries, Directors
and Commissioners). The credit would fund a short term consultancy, allowances and training materials
to run four two weeks seminars for this group of officers.
Parallel Projects
22.   In addition to IDA, there are three donors involved with central government capacity building
i.e. UNDP, ODA and EEC. Other donors (Austria, Denmark, Netherlands, Norway, ODA and Sweden)
have contributed funds for the retrenchment and voluntary retirement schemes being undertaken by GOU.
23.   UNDP has been supporting the CSR through a project that began in 1991 and is expected to run



- 62 -
ANNEX 7
Page 8 of 8
through December 1995. The project's focus has been on several areas included under the proposed
project i.e. Ministerial Reviews, District Reviews, job evaluation and grading, payroll monitoring,
training and retrenchment.
24.   ODA has been financing the service of the Chief Technical Advisor (CTA) since November 1992.
Following the departure of the CTA, ODA is funding a replacement Senior Advisor and two National
Advisors. ODA's projects have focused upon: ministerial reviews, records management, personnel
information system, training (including support to the Uganda Management Institute).
25.   EEC has begun financing training and equipment through the Human Resources Development
Progranmme under Lome IV which is being administered by the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning.
26.   The responsibility for the management and implementation of the Civil Service Reform rests with
the Office of Secretary to the Administrative Reform Commission. Hence, this office is responsible for
coordinating donor activities.



- 63 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 10
UGANDA INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT CAPACITY BUILDING COMPONENT
Background
1.    The local government system in Uganda can be traced back to the structures introduced by the
British at the turn of the century and then gradually modified over the next sixty years. At independence
in 1962 the Constitution provided for the devolution of powers to Kingdoms, Urban Councils and District
Councils.  The 1967 Constitution reversed this system and provided a highly centralized system
underpinned by the Local Administration Act of 1967. During the 1970s and the early 1980s, there was
a complete collapse in central-local relations. After taking power in 1986, one of the first goals
enunciated by the National Resistance Movement Government in its overall framework of social-political
policy was that of decentralization. In 1987, political decentralization was introduced through the
Resistance Council system which consisted of a hierarchical structure of Councils and Committees
consisting of: Village Council (RC1); Parish Council (RC2); Sub-County or Division Council (RC3);
County or Municipal Council (RC4); and District or City Council (RC5).
2.    Commencing in 1986, the Government also began studying the issue of decentralization of
administrative authorities and responsibilities to the thirty nine districts in Uganda to match the RC
structure. There have been various reports produced over the last seven years including the Report of
the Commission of Inquiry into Local Government System (1987), Report of the Local Authorities
Finance Resources Committee (1987), Report of the Public Service Review and Reorganization
Commission (1990) and Summary Recommendations to Strengthen Democratic Decentralization (1991).
In 1991, Cabinet considered and approved measures to strengthen democratic decentralization. Also,
in 1992, a Standing Committee on Decentralization consisting of Permanent Secretaries was established
and a Decentralization Secretariat set up in the Ministry of Local Government.
3.    The various studies and recommendations were considered by Government and culminated in the
Local Governments (Resistance Council) Statute which was enacted by Parliament in November 1993.
It became effective on December 31,1993. The major changes defined under the Statute (which repeals
the Local Administrations Act, 1967; the Urban Authorities Act, 1964; and the Resistance Councils and
Committees Statute, 1987) are
a. the central headquarters functions would be reduced to policy formulation, planning, inspection
and the management of the national programs (as defined under the Second Schedule of the
Statute). All other services (defined in the Sixth Schedule of the Statute) would be provided at
or below the District level;
b. for services provided by the Districts, Central Government would continue to provide support
through block grants and equalization grants (the latter would compensate for disparity between
districts). Finances will also be raised by Districts through graduated tax, rates and revenues
from other sources. At least fifty per cent of the revenues collected by City Councils in urban
areas would have to be given as grants to the local government which is two levels below it (i.e.
a Division Council). Similarly, in rural areas, fifty per cent of revenues collected by the local



- 64 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 10
government councils at the sub-county level (i.e. two levels below the District Level) could be
retained for its own use;
c. the structure of the district government would consist of: the District Resistance Council as the
legislature; the District Executive Secretary/Town Clerk (as the Chief Executive
Officer/Accounting Officer) and his/her staff as the executive branch of government. A Central
Government Representative would be appointed by the President who would deal with/advise on
issues of national importance and otherwise monitor the implementation of government programs,
projects and services;
d. a structure of functional committees for the district and urban councils would budget for and
oversee the implementation of local programs, projects and services;
e. each district would employ its own staff and through the District Service Committee (DSCs) shall
have the power to appoint, discipline and dismiss all staff (other than the District Executive
Secretary and the Deputy District Executive Secretary who shall continue to be appointed by the
Public Service Commission). The conditions of service shall continue to be as per Public Service
Standing Orders issued by the Central Government;
f.  a number of other administrative functions are also devolved to the district level through the
setting up of various Committees such as the Local Government Accounts Committee (which shall
report on its findings to the Public Accounts Committee) and the District Tender Board (which
will take over the function of the Area Tender Boards and provide services to all Resistance
Councils in a district); and
g. a Local Government Finance Commission is to be established to advise Government on financing
of decentralized services including: assignment of responsibilities and revenue sources between
levels of Government, scale and distribution criteria for annual allocation of block and
equalization grants, and guidelines to local authorities for setting of rates of taxes, charges and
fees or priorities for allocation of equalization grants.
4.    The implementation of the reform is well underway and the commitment of Central Government
in its implementation is evident. A number of legal and administrative instruments have been issued to
bring into effect the implementation of the statute viz: Legal Notice No. 1 of 1994 introducing a separate
personnel system; General Notice No.40 of 1994 establishing DSCs; Circular Standing Instruction No.2
of 1994 Directive on DSCs; Public Service Commission Regulations for use by DSCs; Guidelines on the
Management of a Separate Personnel System; Financial Regulations; Tender Board Regulations;
Accounting Manual for District and Urban Councils; Audit Manual; Handbook for Facilitators of
Decentralization Sensitization Training and various booklets explaining Uganda's decentralization policy
and its implications. A number of committees - DSCs, Local Government Tender Boards and Local
Government Accounts Committees - have been appointed and inaugurated.
5.   Local governments have also responded with appreciable commitment. They have:- (i) retrenched
staff whose positions were abolished by the statute (i.e. sub-parish chiefs) and have paid them off using
existing terms and conditions of service; (ii) accepted the rationale and principle behind the restructuring
of departments and rationalization of personnel establishments; (iii) successfully tried out new methods
of service delivery; (iv) in some cases promoted cost sharing as a financing option as demonstrated in



- 65 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 10
the cases of Jinja and Tororo hospitals; and (v) improved revenue collection/administration through
privatization (e.g. collection of market charges) and have accordingly had a higher revenue uptake.
6.     Work on personnel decentralization is well advanced with the appointment of District Service
Comrnittees for all districts and the completion of District Reviews (which would establish structures and
staffing) for the first thirteen districts; discussion of these reviews by the District Resistance Councils has
also commenced.
7.  Financial decentralization is being implemented in a phased manner. The recurrent budget is being
decentralized commencing with thirteen districts in the first year, fourteen districts in the second year and
twelve districts in the last year.
a.  During the first year of decentralization which commenced in 1993/94, in anticipation of adoption
of the Statute, the first thirteen districts were responsible for managing expenditures (and
reporting to Central Government) on the basis of specific votes for each sector Ministry which
was having its services decentralized. Thirteen districts were selected for the first phase of
decentralization; these are Arua, Gulu, Jinja, Kabale, Kabarole, Masaka, Mbale, Mbarara, Mpigi,
Mukono, Lira, Rakai and Tororo.  Similarly, the votes of the following ministries were
designated to comprise the decentralized district votes: Trade and Industry; Agriculture, Animal
Industry and Fisheries; Lands, Housing and Urban Development; Education and Sports; Health;
Information; Labor and Social Rehabilitation; Tourism and Antiquities; Natural Resources;
Women in Development, Youth and Culture; and Local Government.
b. In the second year of decentralization, 1994/95, the first thirteen districts have received block
grants from the Central Government and the District Resistance Councils are responsible for
deciding on the relative priorities among the various services being delivered by local
govermnents. Due to the fact that the District Reviews were in process at the time of budget
formnulation and consequently there are no established staffing complements upon which to base
allocation decisions, salaries which constitute a substantial portion of the expenditures continue
to remain as vote items. Objective criteria for the allocation of block grants for recurrent
expenditure (excluding salaries) have been developed and were to be applied with effect from
1994/95 financial year. There have been problems with the block grants made to the district
administrations. First, the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning has not made allocations
strictly according to the criteria developed. Second, the basis for the block grants have not been
explained to district administrations. Third, the Local Government Finance Commission which
was to have acted as the forum for budgetary discussions has not been appointed yet due to some
unforeseen delays in the appointment process. Fourth, salaries continue to remain a vote item
until the staffing levels are agreed to between the Central Government and the districts. In
1994/95, the second group of fourteen districts also went to the vote system.
c. In 1995/96 the remaining twelve districts will go to the vote system whereas the first twenty
seven districts will go the block grant system.
d. By 1996/97 the financial decentralization process for the recurrent budget would have been
completed with all districts receiving funding from Central Government on a block grant system.
8.     Progress for the first fiscal year of decentralization has been monitored closely by the Ministry



- 66 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 10
of Local Government and was reported as being good; only two out of thirteen districts were considered
to have had unsatisfactory performance in expenditure management and remedial actions have been
instituted. The principal issue raised by districts is that the vote system, while providing districts with
greater control of resources than in the past, does not allow savings in individual line items to be
redeployed within the district and savings revert back to the Central Government. The decentralization
of funds for services that are provided by the Central Government as per the Second Schedule of the
Statute (e.g. hospitals, secondary schools) but which were delegated to the districts was considered to
have resulted in the most visible improvement in service delivery. For example, hospitals in Jinja,
Masaka, Itojo, Tororo, Rakai and Kabale are reported to have had substantial improvement in the number
of patients (including outpatients) served, availability of drugs, food to patients, rehabilitation of premises
and payment of staff salaries and utility bills, etc. Other notable achievements include savings on staff
payments through identification of 'ghost employees' and contracting-out services.
9.     Despite the achievements to-date, it can be expected that successful implementation of the
decentralization program is likely to remain extremely challenging because of several shortcomings in
resources and human capacities in the local governments. Major shortcomings that will need to be
addressed include:
a. Lack of appropriate personnel and financial management systems/registries. For most districts,
the transfer of Central Government resources has brought a substantially higher level of finances
and personnel under the direct control of the districts. This has overloaded existing, largely
manual, systems which were barely coping with managing the resources raised and expended
locally; further, the use of Central Government resources has resulted in several new reporting
requirements which must be observed. Further, the transfer of personnel records and the need
to maintain financial documentation is likely to overwhelm the existing local government
registries.
b. Shortage of staff and the need for extensive training of available staff. In several key areas where
the problems are severe in Central Government, a similar situation is reflected in the local
governments. While, the actual situation varies considerably by district, there is a general
shortage of staff in areas such as planning, finance/accounting, etc.
c. Sub-county level administrative capabilities. Under the Statute, the RCIII level (i.e. the sub-
county) has a substantial role in revenue and expenditure management. While certain districts
(e.g. Jinja) had already commenced providing sub-counties with the responsibility for retaining
and managing resources, in most districts strengthening the sub-counties will be a substantial task.
Thus, Government is in need of considerable assistance in order to help maintain its current commitment
to reform and successfully effect this fundamental change in its approach to management of the economy
and delivery of services.
10.        Donor Support.  Government was assisted by donors in studying and defining its
decentralization policy. In 1992, IDA undertook a comprehensive piece of sector work entitled District
Management Study (Report No. 10695-UG).  This report studied the benefits and risks of the
decentralization process and made recommendations regarding the underlying systems and processes
which needed to be developed and a timetable for phasing in decentralization. Government commissioned
a team of local consultants and also asked DANIDA to field consultants to review the District



- 67 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 10
Management Study. A national workshop was convened to debate the report and the reviews.
11.        The Government of Denmark, through the Danish International Development Assistance
(DANIDA) has provided/is providing support to Government in various ways. First, when IDA's District
Management Study became the focus of debate and analysis within Government, experts were funded to
help Government in its decision making process. Second, an inter-disciplinary task force which prepared
the implementation modalities and reviewed the draft Local Government Statute was financed. Third,
the establishment and operations of the Decentralization Secretariat are being partially financed. Fourth,
substantial support for training and technical assistance is being provided up to March 1997. Fifth, some
districts were supplied with a limited number of office equipment Finally, the District Development
Program of one district (Rakai) is being financed.
12.   IDA has supported the decentralization program so far through the Economic and Financial
Management Project. First, the District Reviews being conducted by Government have been supported.
Second, activities yet to be completed under the EFM Project will also have an impact: systems and
procedures to be implemented for central personnel and financial management will provide an important
underpinning for decentralized systems; and some funds have been allocated for a program to commence
implementation of and train staff for decentralized personnel and financial systems.
Project Component Objectives and Description
13.   The objective of this component is to continue the process of assisting local governments to
improve their abilities to properly manage and administer responsibilities entrusted to them and thus
improve the quality of delivery of services in a viable and sustainable manner. This objective will be
achieved through (i) ensuring that appropriate systems and procedures for development planning,
personnel and financial management and record keeping are in place; (ii) training local government staff
in the use of the new systems and procedures; and (iii) providing additional inputs for the improved
functioning of local governments.
14.   The specific activities to be funded will include
a.  implementing the agreed to changes in inter-governmental finance and developing the
implementation plans for future changes including:
i.    studying and making recommendations for decentralizing the development budget;
ii.    proposing the establishment, capitalization and management of a revolving development
fund;
iii.   in this regard, consultancy funds for acquiring both local and foreign consultancy services
for specific activities to be defined at a later date are provided for.
b. Strengthening financial management structures, systems and procedures by:
i.  supporting the computerization of accounts;
iii. supporting the preparation of final accounts for upto the first two years subsequent to



- 68 -
ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 10
decentralization for several local governments;
iv. preparing resource endowment profiles (district poverty profiles) as the basis for developing
criteria for equalization grants;
c. Strengthening of personnel management structures, systems and procedures by;
i.  supporting the computerization of the decentralized payroll;
ii. financing the development of a decentralized records management system;
d. Training contingent upon the tasks listed above.  Additionally, training in Result Oriented
Management would be provided: to be phased - 13, 14 and 12 districts in that order and in 6
large municipalities;
e. Retooling and civil works. Basic improvements to buildings to enable the local governments to
establish registries, computer rooms and have modest offices out of which to operate. Essential
inputs (i.e. motorcycles, furnishings and office equipment such as typewriters, filing cabinets and
safes) to allow district administrations to fulfil their mandate will be provided; and
f.  Vehicles would be provided on a cost recovery basis and repayments by districts would be used
to create a District Transportation Revolving Fund.
15.   The component will be managed by the Ministry of Local Government which has been charged
with the responsibility of implementing decentralization. The locus of implementation will be the
Decentralization Secretariat within the Ministry which will also act as the technical backstopping facility,
wherever necessary.  There will be a Project Administration group within the Ministry of Local
Government which would be trained with the objective of developing a capacity within that Ministry to
manage, inter alia, the proposed IDA District Development Project (FY97) and disseminate good
procurement practices in the districts. This group would initially be twinned with the Project Office and
it would learn through on-thejob training; it would initially undertake project administration functions
under the guidance of the Project Office and subsequently undertake these independently.
Inter-Govermnental Finance
16.   Decentralizing the Development Budget: Inter-Governmental Financial andDevelopment Planning.
Criteria for and calculation of the block grants for the recurrent budget have been developed and applied
in the 1994/95 financial year. They will annually be refined by the Local Government Finance
Commission. Resources allocated for delegated services (i.e. per Schedule Two of the Statute) for which
the system of Votes may continue were not included in the block grant but were given as separate lines
of expenditure. It is important to continue this arrangement given the improvement in service delivery
that occurred once the resources were channelled directly to service providers as discussed in para 13
above. The tasks at hand are to:
a. design modalities for the decentralization of the development budget. While the completion of
the decentralization of the recurrent budget would provide the districts with a much higher degree
of control over service delivery, the transfer of control over capital resources would represent



- 69 -
ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 10
an equally significant step. However, such decentralization would not only have a fundamental
impact on Central Government but would result in fundamental changes in the manner in which
donors and multi-lateral agencies support and finance development projects in Uganda. The
design will also need to include mechanisms to ensure consistency between fiscal policies of the
Central Government and expenditure policies of local governments to ensure macro-economic
stability. This study would be completed by June 1996 and phased decentralization would
commence by July 1997;
b. propose the establishment, capitalization and management of a revolving development fund. This
will allow local governments to optimize the use of scarce financial resources by choosing
between debt financing (from the development fund), locally generated revenues, donor funds
and central government transfers in funding infrastructure investments. To allow Government
to allocate resources from the revolving fund, financial and operational indicators at the District
level would need to be developed to allow for comparison of performance across districts. This
study is projected to be completed by June 1996 and a GOU position statement on its findings
is to be issued by December 1996;
c. since the agenda is substantial and evolving, provision has been made for a consultancy fund of
US $ I million for acquiring both local and foreign consultancy services for specific activities
(e.g. support to the Local Government Finance Commission) and also for acquiring expert
assistance on an "as-and-when-needed-basis" for the entire life of the credit.
The tasks outlined above fall within the mandate of the Local Government Finance Commission. For a
number of reasons, the appointment has been delayed but is expected to be completed shortly and the
tasks may be further refined at that time. Additionally, Terms of Reference for consultancy support to
the LGFC would also be prepared at that time.
Strengthening Financial Management Structures, Systems and Procedures
17.   Computerization of Accounts. The computerization of accounts is necessary. It will bring about
efficiency in capturing and processing data, information storage and retrieval. It will promote
improvements in budgeting, revenue and expenditure management. It will help management easily
monitor financial and budgetary operations thereby enabling the DES to have a firm grasp on the
financial position of the district. The timeliness and availability of financial data brought about by
computerization will assist in (i) corrective actions being instituted at an early stage; (ii) timely publishing
of annual accounts thereby increasing transparency and enhancing the credibility of local governments.
Further, local governments will continue to provide information to the Central Government on financial
resources provided by the centre which are expended at or below the district level. In order to ensure
that the business requirements of both Central and local governments would be met through the
computerized system, an assessment of the needs of various users is being undertaken; the task is being
funded through the Project Preparation Facility.
18.   Preparation of Final Accounts. Upon close of the first financial year after decentralization of
funds under the vote system, each of the thirteen districts will be required to prepare final accounts which
would include the financial position of both Central and Local Government revenues expended during the
fiscal year. There are some districts which have sufficient technical capacity to undertake this exercise
themselves, there are others which could use some assistance and yet others which would require



- 70 -
ANNEX 8
Page 8 of 10
extensive help.  In order to assess the situation, a survey team consisting of representatives from the
Auditor General's Office, the Commissioner/Treasury Officer of Accounts, the Inspectorate in the
Ministry of Local Government and the Financial Management Division of the Decentralization Secretariat
conducted a survey of the first thirteen districts to determine if the accounts have been prepared and
sufficient background documentation is available for purposes of auditing the accounts. Similar surveys
will be required for the balance of the districts close to the end of the first year after decentralization.
On the basis of these surveys, assistance would be tailored for district and urban councils to ensure that
accounts are prepared properly and in a timely manner; the assistance would be provided by the private
sector i.e. local accounting firms. Provision has also been made to provide assistance, if required, in
preparing the accounts for the first year under the block grant system. DANIDA has indicated its
willingness to fund the same or other local firms in providing support to the Office of the Auditor
General in auditing the accounts prepared. This initiative would allow future financial decentralization
to proceed with a clean slate as far as past accounts are concerned and also pave the way for the merger
of accounts of central government transfers with those of local governments. Also the findings of the
auditors would be useful in the creation of proper accounting systems for the future. By March 1996,
twenty seven districts are expected to be in compliance with the requirement of the Local Governments
Statute that audited accounts should be prepared within six months of the end of the financial year and
by March 1997 all thirty nine districts are expected to be in compliance with the Statute.
Strengthening Personnel Management Structures, Systems and Procedures (including Records
Management).
19.   This is an area where the needs are more immediate. While the decentralization of financial
management is being phased over a three year period, the decentralization of personnel management has
already gone into effect country-wide. Further, ensuring the integrity of the personnel management
systems during the decentralization process would be important to ensure that the considerable amount
of effort which has gone into cleaning up the records in the central databases continues to result in
substantial savings to GOU. The correct data hitherto maintained by the central government would be
passed from central to district governments. Fresh appointments, promotions, terminations and other
personnel actions regarding district level personnel would be within the control of the District Service
Committees. Consequently, the districts would up date records of the Central Government.
20.  Computerization of the Decentralized Payroll. The central payroll of Government would need to
be demarcated by districts and the data be provided to the districts. This will be undertaken in a two-
stage approach. First, by July 1995, consolidated payroll processing of all District Administration staff
and staff formerly employed by the Central Government would be undertaken by the Uganda Computer
Services on behalf of the districts. Second, between July 1996 and June 1997, the districts would
themselves commence decentralized management of payroll.  Several preparatory steps would be
undertaken.  The survey of user needs discussed in para 17 would also include the information
requirements for a personnel system at the Central and local government level. On the basis of the above
information, an appropriate personnel/payroll information system would be provided to District
Administrations that would interface with their financial systems. This system would lead to the
establishment of district staff lists, documentation for its use would be prepared and at least two
(personnel) officers trained in its use. While, in general, the system would be computerized, alternative
manual systems (with appropriate checks and balances) may be designed for districts without electricity.
Also, the system design would ensure that sufficient level of detail is provided back to MPS so that
Central Government can monitor data integrity and the civil service wage bill. Computerization of the



- 71 -
ANNEX 8
Page 9 of 10
payroll and bio-data will take advantage of the experience of MPS in computerizing personnel records
of restructured ministries and the experience of Rakai and five other local governments.
21.  Decentralized Records Management. The District Service Committees have already taken over
decision making regarding all personnel actions for all employees of local governments. The District
Teaching Service Committees would do the same for the teaching cadre. Both the DSC and the DTC for
each district will need to be set up, strengthened and trained.
22.   The confidential and open files of various civil servants being transferred to the districts would
need to be transferred to the District Personnel offices. This would be supported by the provision of
secure storage facilities and procedures for handling such files at the district level. A records survey was
conducted to establish the current state of district records and information flow and also assess the short
and long term needs with regards to equipment, furniture and tools; office space; personnel; training
needs and guidelines; and appropriate records classification system that may be applied in local
government. Funding was providedfrom the PPF. The results of the survey were used to determine
the activities to be undertaken under this part of the component. Training will also be provided for
records management.
23.   The preparation of schemes of service for at least 3 districts and two municipalities with
contrasting characteristics to be used as models by the rest of the districts will be a critical activity. The
schemes are expected to be prepared under the on-going District Reviews.
Results Oriented Management
24.     ROM would be introduced into the local government budgeting procedures in synchronization
with its introduction into the Central Government budgeting processes. Hence, starting in FY97, ROM
would be introduced to the local budget process and would be used to promote: (i) priority setting within
and between sectors;(ii) matching inputs with outputs; (iii)sensitivity to timeliness in service delivery
(respect for time-frames). Seminars for ROM would start for all the districts and training would be
provided in ROM for senior district and urban officials.
Training
25.   Training funds will be disaggregated in two respects: (i) by component and (ii) by categorization
between discretionary and non-discretionary training. Non- discretionary funds for local government will
be under the direct management of the component manager for the Local Government Capacity Building
Component. The design of the training programs will incorporate the information from Training Needs
Assessments (TNAs) which have already been undertaken (e.g. the TNA conducted for districts under
the Northern Uganda Reconstruction Project, the Uganda First Urban Project training plans).
Information will be exchanged between the Decentralization Secretariat and the coordination units of
UFUP and NURP to establish areas of duplication with a view to eliminating them from the project
without denying the beneficiaries training opportunities.
Civil Works and Retooling
26. Some basic improvements are required to establish a reasonable level of physical infrastructure for
the district administrations. What is envisaged is largely refurbishing building exteriors and interiors,



- 72 -
ANNEX 8
Page 10 of 10
making windows burglar proof, etc. The need to construct new premises would be kept to the minimum
possible. The end product would be modest offices out of which District Administrations could operate.
Essential inputs for retooling would also be provided.  Office and computing equipment (including
printers, stabilizers, generators for back-up power, UPSs, disk banks) and furnishings in sufficient
quantities to implement the systems and procedures described in the paras above would also be provided.
Finally, computer software and stationery supplies to ensure that day-to-day operations run smoothly
would be provided in a decreasing order over the life span of the project. A determination of the civil
works requirements has been undertaken to refine the cost estimates as a special activity by MLG staff;
the costs are being reimbursed from the PPF.
27.   The project would also finance a few vehicles per district to assist district management to monitor
and supervise district-wide activities. The cost of the vehicles is expected to be completely recovered
from the districts themselves over a four to five year repayment period and the funds would be deposited
into a Revolving Fund dedicated for purchase of vehicles. The management and administration of the
Revolving Fund would be contracted out to a commercial bank and detailed guidelines would be provided
to the districts on the modalities of accessing the fund. The cost recovery approach is expected to have
two major benefits. First, it is expected that the need for repayment would encourage the districts to
choose the lowest cost solutions for their needs. Hence, while some 4WD vehicles are still expected to
be required for district level monitoring, there is greater likelihood of revenue collectors, for example,
being provided motorcycles. Second, the operation of the Revolving Fund is likely to provide lessons
of experience for the much larger revolving fund which is likely to be implemented under the District
Development Project.
Parallel Projects
28.   There are several parallel activities being funded from other projects, most of which are funded
by DANIDA.
a. For the next 2-3 years much of the training (sensitization and skills development) will be provided
through a grant from DANIDA and IDA's EFMP credit.
b. The pensions system would be reviewed in the light of decentralization. The objective would be
to create a portable pension system. The initiatives of the National Social Security Fund would
be examined with a view to adopting relevant recommendations. Otherwise a consultant whose
funding is already earmarked under the DANIDA grant will be hired.
c. The resource and revenue potentials of the districts are not known, yet calculation of the
equalization grant and the equitable distribution of resources under the development budget will
largely be based on (i) realized potential and existing capacity/infrastructure; (ii) unexploited
potential; and (iii) revenue effort or expenditure management. The social economic data
generated under the resource endowment profiles will be instrumental in evolving policies that
will govern inter-governmental financial transfers and development planning. This task is slated
for funding by UNDP. The credit will finance this task if the anticipated funding from UNDP
does not materialize. A short-term consultant will be needed for a maximum of four months.



- 73 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 10
UGANDA INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
LEGAL SECTOR REFORM
Background
1.           Legal System. The Constitution of Uganda and the Juridicature Act of 1967 constitute
the foundation of the Ugandan legal system as it exists today. The Act provides for the continued
application of the received English law in Uganda and its co-existence with customary law which is firmly
embedded in the traditions, culture, customs and values of the indigenous people of Uganda. The body
of statutory law (i.e. laws made by the legislature) is made up of largely outdated legislation in almost
every sector. Specifically, laws regarding commerce, traffic and taxation which affect business, industry
and private sector development are in dire need of modernization. For example, legislation in commerce
was introduced in the pre-independence era and was modelled on the legislation applying in the United
Kingdom at that time.
2.           Institutions. The problem of outdated laws is exacerbated by the absence of timely and
rigorous enforcement of these laws due to weaknesses in the major institutions in the sector. In addition
to the police, these institutions are:
a.    The Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs (MJCA). Most legal activities (e.g.
formulating, drafting and enacting the National Constitution, laws and documents) fall
within the purview of MJCA or other entities that operate within its mandate. There are
seven Departments within the Ministry : Solicitor-General's Office, Public Prosecution,
Civil Affairs, First Parliamentary Counsel, Administrator-General, Registrar-General and
Constitutional Affairs.
b.    In addition, five other bodies outside MJCA also fall within the control of the Ministry
i.e. the Constitutional Commission, the Human Rights Commission, the Law Reform
Commission, the Law Revision Commission and the Law Development Centre;
c.    The Law Council exercises general supervision and control over entry and practice of law
in Uganda;
d.    The Judiciary (consisting of the Supreme Court, the High Court and Magistrate Courts)
is responsible for adjudicating, deciding and settling legal disputes in accordance with the
law;
e.    There are Resistance Council Courts at the village, parish and subcounty levels.Their
jurisdiction is, by law, restricted to causes and matters of civil and customary nature as
defined in the Resistance Committees (Judicial Powers) Statute 1 of 1988. They handle
their proceedings in their respective local languages and are generally more accessible
to people.
3.    A peculiarity of the existing criminal justice system in Uganda is the use of police staff as
prosecutors in the lower courts due to shortages of qualified lawyers in the Department of Public



- 74 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 10
Prosecution.
4.     Shortcomings in the Legal Sector.  In general the MJCA is confronted with the following
problems 
a.     insufficient staffing of lawyers, paralegal and secretarial staff. This is mainly due to the
large discrepancy between salaries offered in the public sector and the fees lawyers
commnand in the private sector. As a result, the MICA has a high vacancy rate for
professional posts. As of June 1993 for example, there was in the Solicitor-General's
Office a vacancy rate of 81 %, 55 % in the Department of the Administrator-General, and
49% in the Office of the Registrar-General. Similar problems exist for support staff as
well. The Registrar-General's Office currently has only twenty two filled posts for
support staff out of sixty three established posts.
b.     outdated office equipment and technology and the lack of proper office facilities also
affect service delivery. This has particular impact on Departments which depend heavily
on the availability of appropriate records management systems (e.g the Registrars'
Department which maintains the official incorporation documents of companies);
C.     absence of proper pre-service, in-service and other training programs. For most lawyers,
the last period of training received is at the Law Development Center prior to being
admitted to the bar and the bench after successful completion of their studies.
d.     archaic legislation in some important areas such as commerce, domestic relations and
procedural laws which are no longer responsive to the current needs of the Ugandan
society. Most of these laws were passed during the colonial era and are not conducive
to private sector development.
e.     absence of easily available documentation with regard to the Laws of Uganda (which
were last published in 1964) and the latest legal decisions (which are normially
continuously updated through a system of Law Reports but which are largely unavailable
in Uganda from 1958 onwards);
f.     lack of office supplies. While this affects all department for basic items such as folders,
stationery, etc. it has a larger impact on those departments which are heavily dependent
on their interaction with the general public through forms.
The pervasive weaknesses in MJCA are also evidenced in other areas of the legal sector (i.e. magistrates,
prosecutors, etc.).
5.     Donor Assistance. Assistance in addressing the problems in the legal sector has been forthcoming
on a limited basis from various donors. It has been mostly confined to the provision of office equipment,
vehicles and books, the upgrading of selected physical facilities, especially courts, and the supply of
expatriate technical assistance to fill vacancies. Specifically,
a.     DANIDA has been funding pilot projects for the construction of new courtrooms and



- 75 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 10
judges' residences in nine targeted areas; in addition, they have provided the Judiciary
with stationery and assisted in the replenishment and refurbishing of the High Court
library;
b.     ODA has assisted the Judiciary since 1990 by bringing into Uganda three expatriate
judges in order to ease the caseload and to conduct training; it has also provided
equipment, vehicles and books to the Supreme and High Courts;
c.     USAID has provided assistance to the Human Rights Commission and the Supreme Court
by supplying them with books; and
d.     The Austrian Government has also been involved in endeavors to improve the
performance of the legal sector. Their main involvement focused on assisting LDC to
produce law bulletins and statutory instruments.
6.     Overall Program for Sector Reform.  The Government of Uganda has focused on the issues
concerning the legal sector by including it as one of the priority areas for strengthening under its Capacity
Building Plan. It has, hence, attempted to move forward from an ad hoc approach to a comprehensive
program to improve the entire system of delivery of justice.
7.     One of the actions that Government has undertaken in the recent past to demonstrate its
commitment to reforming the sector in a sustainable manner is to significantly increase the salaries of
professional lawyers as of July 1994. The level of salaries was extremely low with professional lawyers
earning an entry level salary of approximately $30 per month while the private sector lawyers earned
several multiples of that wage. Further, unlike other professionals, lawyers were unable to moonlight
to supplement their salaries since this would represent a conflict of interest for which they could be
debarred from the profession. The situation was reflected in MJCA's inability to recruit with a high level
of vacancies resulting as has been discussed earlier. As part of the 1994/95 budget, the Government has
increased this wage scale upto a minimum of $640 per month; while these are still below the private legal
sector salaries/earnings, it will provide a substantial boost to the morale of professional legal staff in the
public sector and will improve the quality of staff entering the legal system. For example, for the first
time, vacancy advertisements for lawyers in the MJCA have been oversubscribed with a substantial
improvement in the qualifications of candidates applying for the position. It is anticipated that the
increased salaries would appropriately complement the inputs provided under the project and hence there
should be a substantial impetus to project viability and sustainability.
8.     IDA's support and the assistance provided under this project is focused upon the commercial
aspects of law and on the settlement of civil disputes. The criminal law and institutions that administer
it are specifically excluded from the purview of the project even though these functions (e.g. police and
prosecution) are of significant importance and may have substantial linkages with and impact upon the
entire system of justice administration. This decision is predicated upon IDA's current policies which
take into account the fact that its primary mandate is economic development. However, to the extent that
general refresher training, for example, is provided to all lawyers within the MJCA, the staff of the
Department of Public Prosecution have been included in such training. Further, other donors such as
ODA which has in the past supported the criminal justice system are likely to continue such support
thereby ensuring that these critical areas will be improved as well.



- 76 -
ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 10
Project Component Objectives and Description
9.     The proposed project is expected to achieve the following objectives:
a.    to review the entire legal education system in Uganda.
b.     Law Revision and Reform of laws, especially commercial and related laws;
c.    institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs (MJCA)
as well as the Judiciary; and
d.    increased cost recovery for services rendered by the Legal Sector commencing with
Administrator General and Registrar General.
Legal Education, Training and Accreditation of Lawvyers
10.    The current system of legal education in Uganda is based on the recommendations made by the
Gower Commission in 1969. Under this system, all prospective lawyers in Uganda have to undergo
training in two institutions; one teaching substantive law and the other professional skills. Hence, after
acquiring a legal degree from any recognised university, all lawyers in Uganda are required to undergo
further legal training for a period of one year. Upon completion of the training, lawyers can then
practice law in the public sector. In order to practice in the private sector, a certificate of practice needs
to be issued by the Law Council. In 1970, The Law Development Centre Act was passed establishing
the LDC as the only institution which could provide the legal training required prior to being enrolled
as an advocate. The training activity of the Centre takes the form of a formal instruction course in legal
practice to law graduates for a period of nine months combined with an additional three months of legal
practice. A pre-service training course is also conducted for magistrates.
11.    LDC limits its intake of students to only sixty per year for the professional qualification course.
Its candidate pool is from the undergraduate legal programs of Makerere University; University of Dar
es Salaam, Tanzania; University of Nairobi, Kenya; and University of Lusaka, Zambia. Candidates with
undergraduate degrees from other Universities need to be cleared by the Law Council prior to being
considered as candidates for selection by LDC. The teaching staff consists of 20-25 lawyers who are also
allowed to practice on a part-time basis; this lack of staff defines one of the limitations on LDC's ability
to increase its output of students or deliver Continuing Professional Education. Another limitation is the
training delivery approach which is restricted to residential courses therefore limiting total number of
students trained in all courses to one hundred and twenty, the hostel capacity. LDC's costs which were
U Sh 330 mm for 1993 are funded through subventions from the Government since there is no cost
recovery from students.
12.   Over the years, LDC's ability to provide legal training has deteriorated considerably. As LDC
has struggled to meet its statutory obligations for pre-service training and law research and reporting
(which is discussed later), it has been unable to dedicate any significant level of resources to Continuing
Legal Education in the profession. This situation has been exacerbated by the absence of any mandatory
requirements for CLE for lawyers as a requirement to maintain their ability to continue in practice. In
order to ensure that these needs are satisfactorily addressed, a substantial change in the delivery of legal



- 77 -
ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 10
education and training in Uganda is required. As a first step, the project would fund a study to evaluate
the existing status of legal education in Uganda with a view to finding ways and means of making it more
relevant and responsive to the changing conditions in the country. Taking into account the findings of
this study, GOU will adopt a satisfactory policy on legal education. GOUfurnishing a statement defining
its Policy on Legal Education is a condition of disbursement for the legal sector component.
Law Revision and Reform in Uganda
13.   These are two related activities which are separate but have several linkages: law revision is the
process of consolidating various Laws of Uganda into a series of volumes with the objective of making
these Laws readily available to various participants in the legal process. Law reform is the amendment
of specific laws from the perspective of modernizing these laws within the socio-economic context
prevalent in Uganda and to remove impediments to Government's stated objective of making the private
sector as the focal point for growth in the economy.
14.   Institutional and Policy Framework for Law Revision. Law Revision is the responsibility of a
Law Revision Commission. Preparations have already commenced for the Law Revision exercise which
would be undertaken through parallel donor financing (USAID to fund the consolidation of laws and ODA
to fund the printing of the laws). The Laws (Revised Edition) Statute was passed in October 1994 which
(a) empowers the LRC to consolidate all the statutory laws in force in the country as of the end of 1995;
and (b) appoints two Commissioners to conduct the Law Revision exercise.
15.   Institutional and Policy Framework for Law Reform. Law reform exercise in Uganda is the
responsibility of a statutorily established body, called the Law Reform Commission. It is composed of
a Chairnan and six other Commissioners appointed by the President on the advice of the Attorney-
General; to-date, the Chairman and three Commissioners have been appointed allowing the Commission
to commence its work.
16.   Law Reform : Focus on Private Sector Development. An activity which would be undertaken
concurrently under the project would be the reform of the laws which impact upon economic activities,
such as commercial, property and revenue laws, in order to spur on the required development of the
private sector and to enhance investor confidence. In the recent past, some reports were prepared by
GOU Task Forces to identify the most critical areas for law reform. The prioritization of laws requiring
reform was undertaken with the assistance of the private sector at a one-day workshop which was held
in Kampala in October 1994. The prioritized list of laws identified for reform during the period of
project implementation have been agreed with IDA. The necessary draft laws are to be prepared,
published as bills and submitted for the legislature's consideration by July 1996. Ideally, law reform is
an activity to be undertaken in-house by the Law Reform Commission so that GOU's capacity can be
built up. However, it is unlikely that this could be successfully undertaken given the fact that the LRC
Commissioners are only recently appointed and the administrative structure is still being set up. The
approach agreed between GOU and IDA is to use the services of consultants for the implementation of
the activity of law reform and provide for the staff of the Law Reform Commission to be involved in the
actual execution of the studies in order to enhance the in-house capacity of the Law Reform Commission.
17.   Law Reform : Focus on Women In Development. IDA is also planning to fund (as part of the
Law Reform exercise) amendment of laws relating to domestic relations. These laws define the rights



- 78 -
ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 10
of women and have bearing on the position and treatment of women within society and their ability to
engage independently in constructive commercial/economic activity. An earlier exercise had been
undertaken by GOU but had not been completed due to various reasons. The agreed approach is for the
draft law which had been prepared under the earlier exercise to be used as the point of departure for the
current exercise. Using consultancy assistance, the draft law would be updated based on current socio-
economic changes and would be discussed widely with various stakeholder groups. The draft Domestic
Relations Bill is to be presented to legislature for consideration by December 1996.
Law Reporting
18.    As discussed above, the Ugandan legal system is based on common law which has a legal theory
that is deeply rooted in the precedent system. Similarly, research is required prior to undertaking law
reform and introducing new legislation. As is the case for other activities in this sector, there has been
no systematic law research and reporting due to lack of resources. This, in turn, has handicapped
lawyers, prosecutors and judges who require readily available information on precedents in order to
perform their duties. The main series of Uganda Law Reports is presently out of production; the backlog
dates back to 1958 although between 1971-1973 three volumes were produced which are also currently
out of print. In the absence of funding to produce the law reports, a shorter abstract of the decisions
made by the Supreme and High Courts is currently being published; even this is out of date with its last
edition having been published in 1991.
19.    Institutional and Policy Framework for Law Reporting. The Law Development Centre (LDC)
is responsible for compiling, editing and publishing law reports for Uganda. In addition, it has a
substantial role in legal education (which has been discussed in the earlier section on legal education).
Hence, not only does the LDC, like other Government institutions, suffer from a lack of resources but
from the resources that it does secure, law research and reporting do not always receive highest priority.
The law reporting component of the Centre's work is the most important in view of the fact that it is the
only institution in the country responsible for the compilation of case law for the entire legal profession.
20.    The project will fund the preparation and publication of Law Reports. For the Law Reports
between 1958-1970 (i.e. thirteen volumes), the materials for the reports have been assembled but only
about 20 percent has been edited. Three volumes (i.e. 1971-1973) were produced and need to be
reprinted. Finally, for Law Reports between 1974-1994 (i.e. twenty volumes), while the materials have
been assembled, no editing work has been undertaken. Hence, there is a substantial backlog of editorial
work to be undertaken and support is being provided through local consultants who will supplement the
LDC's in-house resources in order to get the Reports printed in a timely manner. An important objective
to be achieved is to increase the level of cost recovery from the sales of Uganda Law Reports such that
by the end of the project period, this activity would be largely self-financing.
Institutional Strengthening of MJCA
21.    The project will provide support to the Ministry in improving its performance by providing:
a.    substantial amount of staff training. Various officers within the Ministry will undergo
training in the respective fields of their assignments. The training requested is mainly
for study tours, Masters' Degrees and Diplomas in specific relevant fields, short-term



- 79 -
ANNEX 9
Page 7 of 10
courses and attachments to the relevant Departments in some of the neighboring
Commonwealth countries. Given the unavailability of locally available legal training, the
MJCA in conjunction with the CBS will develop a training program which would balance
the need for training in specialized skills and the cost effectiveness of locally delivered
courses using out-of-country trainers. Support staff training in computing, accounting,
registry procedures, personnel management and office management would be undertaken
locally.
b.     access to legal information i.e. law books, updated and revised Laws of Uganda and the
latest case law as embodied in the Uganda Law Reports. The books would be purchased
competitively whereas the preparation of the latter two items is to be funded under the
project;
c.    increased access to inputs necessary to accomplish the job such as vehicles, office
equipment, supplies, etc.
Institutional Strengthening of the Judiciary
22.    The institutional weaknesses besetting the Judiciary result in delays in the handling of cases thus
causing backlogs at all levels of the courts. The waiting period for a case to be disposed ranges from two
to six years. Record keeping and retrieval of files is entirely manual and inefficiently organized such that
it takes a number of days in some instances, to locate the right file. The institutional strengthening will
be similar to that of the MJCA i.e. training, access to legal information and some assistance in acquiring
inputs will be provided. Differences from the MJCA's strengthening program will consist largely in the
training program. Specifically, training will consist of:
a.     Pre-Service Training. This will consist of induction courses that will be conducted for the
newly recruited magistrates to familiarize them with the practical aspects of their
profession and to develop appropriate specialized legal knowledge required in their job.
The course will help develop a strong sense of ethical responsibility and a professional
attitude which will underpin impartiality and discourage corruption. There are ten
magistrates that are recruited annually and the course will be for a period not exceeding
one month.
b.     Promotional Training. This will be an in-service training conducted for senior magistrates
who are eligible for promotion to judges in order to prepare them for their new
assigmnent. It will be held once a year for sixty senior magistrates. The course will
further serve to expose the participants to new developments in the various areas of law.
c.     Training of Judges. Twenty seven judges will be trained by means of in-service seminars,
workshops and study tours. This training will be specifically designed to keep judges
abreast of recent legal developments and to provide them with less structured opportunity
to have an exchange of their legal views and lessons of experience.
d.     Attachments. Through this program registrars would undertake attachments with the
neighboring countries with similar court system which have efficient registries.



- 80 -
ANNEX 9
Page 8 of 10
The inputs provided to strengthen the Judiciary will ensure predictability of the law in Uganda thus
encouraging investors to do business in the country as they will be assured of the availability of an
effective enforcement machinery to protect their rights and property.
23.   Libraries. The synergies involved in strengthening both institutions simultaneously will provide
opportunities to reap economies of scale especially in the area of improved availability of information.
Since the same Laws, Case Laws and books are shared by judges, prosecutors and defense attorneys, the
optimal approach to providing information is to set up or improve commonly accessible Law Libraries.
This can be expected to reduce duplication and provide substantial savings. Consequently, a study on
Law Libraries has been undertaken from the PPF and its findings have been used to determine the scope
of Libraries and the funding levels to be supported under the project.
Outputs Resulting from Institutional Strengthening
24.   The inputs provided for institutional strengthening are expected to result in a better functioning
Ministry which would improve the quality of service rendered to the public. However, there are two
problems with output measurement: first, improvements may be qualitative (e.g. more consistent court
decisions resulting from readier availability of Laws and Law Reports) and second, the improvements in
quantified outputs may be dependent on factors other than the inputs provided by the project. This
problem is further compounded by the fact that there has been insufficient monitoring of systemic outputs
from the perspective of redressing shortcomings in the system.
25.    Systemic Measurements. The primary unit of measurement in the system is the number of cases
processed. The backlog of cases has become one of the primary indicators of the inefficiency of the
system. However, as currently no measurements are made as to the causes of the delay (e.g. whether
evidence was not available, whether witnesses were not present, etc.), it provides little information as to
the causes of delays in the system. The project would assist in the development of computerized case
management which will permit easy case monitoring and follow-up and will produce the data required
to evaluate overall court performance. Also, pilot approaches will be undertaken to measuring the causes
of the underlying delays in order to pinpoint bottlenecks, identify key areas of resource requirements and
measure impact of various inputs.
26.   Measurement of project outputs. The specific outputs which would be monitored under the
project are detailed in Annex 3. In summary, these consist of specific tangible outputs which, of
necessity, mirror the inputs (e.g. Law Reports printed, reformed laws presented to Parliament) and also
other indicators which measure systemic improvements (e.g. backlog of cases cleared, ratio of legal
training undertaken locally as percentage of total training, service delivery and level of support received
from GOU by the devolved Administrator General and Registrar General).
Increased Cost Recovery
27.    Based on the recommendations made as part of the Ministerial Review for the MJCA,
Government has decided that in order to improve effectiveness and efficiency, the Department of the
Administrator General/Public Trustee and the Department of the Registrar General should be devolved
from Government. New corporate entities are to be established which would be self accounting and
would deliver services to the public on a cost recovery basis. These decisions of Government provide



- 81 -
ANNEX 9
Page 9 of 10
a unique opportunity to increase the level of cost recovery of the legal sector and the project will finance
studies and the resulting implementation plans for setting up and increasing cost recovery from the two
devolved Departments.
28.    Administrator-General's Department.  This department is charged with the responsibility of
administering the deceased persons' estates as well as insolvent estates, and also acts as a Public Trustee
for minors and legally incapacitated persons. For the services rendered by the department, it charges a
fee of 1 % at the time of the distribution of funds from the estate; this is low compared to the charges for
similar services in other East African countries (e.g. Kenya charges 10% and Tanzania 7%). The
department currently has sixteen professional positions with eleven lawyers on board. Its offices are
based only in Kampala and it has no up-country presence.
29.    The workload of the Department has grown in recent years due to two reasons: increasing
number of deaths from AIDS; and lack of legal literacy which results in intestate deaths. The caseload
has grown from 1153 in 1990 to 2422 in 1993. At the same time, the revenues earned from handling
such estates has grown from 300 million U Sh to 913 million U Sh; costs have also increased
substantially.
30.    A study is underway to recommend the modality for establishing the new entity (including
legislation required, organization structure, etc.) and review the various options for (a) improving service
delivery in locations outside Kampala; consideration would be given to delegating service delivery to the
district level as has been proposed earlier by the Ministry of Local Government; (b) increasing the level
of revenue for each transaction handled while keeping charges to the average Ugandan at low levels (e.g.
through a sliding scale percentage charge for services i.e. the higher the value of the estate, the higher
the percentage fee); (c) evaluate methods of containing costs; (d) propose a plan for computerization of
records management, accounting and budgetary control; and (e) make recommendations for increasing
the returns from financial and land assets under control of the Public Trustee. The study is beingfinanced
from the Project Preparation Facility. The outputs of the study would, inter alia, include a three-year
Business Plan. The condition of disbursement of funds to the Administrator-General's Office would be
the provision of a satisfactory business plan covering at least the first three years of operation.
31.    Registrar-General's Department. The main objectives of this Department is to attend to the
registration of: all businesses and companies in Uganda; births, deaths, etc.; and intellectual property
such as patents, copyrights and trademarks. Like all the other Departments within the MJCA the Office
of the Registrar faces a plethora of problems which constitute a hurdle in its proper and efficient
functioning. There is a chronic shortage of office supplies, more particularly registration forms which
form the basic tools of the Department's work. Modern equipment, such as computers, is lacking and
as a result the record keeping system as well as information storage is done manually. High vacancy rate
for support staff further compounds the situation.The number of cases handled per day has increased due
to the deaths resulting from AIDS as well as the increased economic activity occasioned by the current
Government policy. As a result the Department presently registers an average of four companies, eight
business names, five deaths and twenty five births per day. The amount of revenue collected by the
Department has increased from some 224 million U Sh in 1990 to 486 million U Sh in 1993; a large
proportion of this revenue is attributable to stamp duty. The growth of the volume of the Department's
work necessitates its operational expansion to the areas outside Kampala where it is presently based.The
scarcity of resources however, militates against this.



- 82 -
ANNEX 9
Page 10 of 10
32.    A study similar to the one for the Administrator General is being conducted for the Registrar
General. The study will: (a) examine the modality for setting up the new entity including its organization
structure; (b) review the registration system and make recommendations for its streamlining. Particular
consideration should be given to the delegation of registration of births and deaths to the district level as
has been suggested earlier by the Ministry of Local Government; (c) draw up an Action Plan for
computerization of records management; (d) determine an appropriate rate structure and draw up a plan
for increasing cost recovery over the life of the project. The study is being financed from the Project
Preparation Facility. The outputs of the study would, inter alia, include a three-year Business Plan. 77Te
condition of disbursement of funds to the Registrar-General's Office would be the provision of a
satisfactory business plan covering at least the first three years of operation.
Parallel Donor Projects
33.    DANIDA is funding a project to provide assistance to the Judiciary and in the continued
construction/refurbishment of courts.  The commencement of this project is currently pending the
appointment of a Judicial Reform Commission since this a condition of effectiveness of that project.
34.    USAID is funding the part of the Law Revision exercise which relates to the consolidation of the
laws. The approach adopted will be an in-house effort in the Law Revision Commission. Two
Commissioners would be appointed by Statute to carry out the Revision exercise which is expected to be
completed over a period of three to four years.
35.    Upon completion of the Law Revision, the consolidated Laws of Uganda would be printed by
ODA. ODA is also reviewing its program to provide support to the Judiciary and to the Legal Sector;
the results of these two reviews would be used to decide upon whether ODA's ongoing programs to
support the Judiciary and the police would continue and the nature of the assistance may be revised at
that time.



- 83 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 4
UGANDA INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
ACCOUNTANCY PROFESSION STRENGTHENING COMPONENT
Background
1.           The development of accounting in Uganda has fallen behind the rest of Africa due to the
past lack of support from the Government of Uganda (GOU) in the formation of the accounting profession
and in the development of a local professional qualification. Uganda has a very small accounting
profession, with less than 100 professionally qualified accountants and a similarly serious shortage of
accounting technicians. The demand for accountants is very high, but because of the small numbers most
accounting jobs are filled by staff with no formal accounting qualifications who may not be capable of
carrying out the tasks assigned to them. In Government, the lack of qualified staff is exacerbated by the
low remuneration and consequently, Government has been unable to produce its own accounts on time.
2.           As a result of the mismatch between supply and demand, there is a heavy demand for
accounting education in Uganda. However, the only accounting courses currently offered in the public
sector are the Bachelor of Commerce Degree (accounting stream) at Makerere University and the
Diploma in Business Studies at the College of Business Studies in Nakawa. Both of these qualifications
are heavily oversubscribed. The only professional accounting qualifications available to Ugandans are
foreign ones: i.e. the Kenyan Certified Public Accountancy qualification or a UK qualification. While
some private colleges do offer study courses for both examinations, such courses are not readily available
for later stages of the qualifications. Hence, the majority of students undertake correspondence courses
or go overseas; either alternative results in the expenditure of large amounts of foreign exchange.
Further, the taxation and legal systems which are studied as part of the Kenyan and UK qualifications are
not relevant to Uganda and due to unfamiliarity with these systems, Ugandan students achieve a lower
pass rate in both examinations.
3.           Past Donor Support. In recent years, the GOU has realized that the development of
accounting is important for the economy. As a first step, it sought donor support in the form of discrete
projects aimed at improving the skills of specific cadres (i.e. accountants and auditors) within
Government. Under the IDA Economic and Financial Management Project government accounting and
auditing is being strengthened. The Office of the Auditor General is being assisted in : improving the
structure and organization of audit planning administration and the quality of the audit documentation;
introduction of specific audit techniques (e.g value for money auditing and auditing of parastatals and
local authorities); and a structured training program which would have the capacity to continue after the
project. The Office of Treasury Accounts is being assisted in: introduction of structured training for the
accounting cadre; improving the Treasury Inspectorate; and developing the internal audit function. Donor
support in the development of the profession and a local examination has consisted of two studies both
funded by ODA which laid out the next steps required in developing the profession and an examination.
4.           Based on the findings of the above studies, the accountancy profession worked with GOU
to legislate the necessary changes. In 1992, Government passed the Accountants Statute which established
the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Uganda to regulate the profession and maintain standards,
and the Public Accountants Examinations Board to conduct accounting examinations. Unfortunately,
during the passage of the Bill through Parliament, some changes were introduced which have led to
continuing disputes regarding the membership of the Institute.



- 84 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 4
5.           Problems with the Statute.  The Statute allows for two categories of members: full and
associate. It also allows for those currently engaged in public practice to apply for a license to practice.
Only full members however, can vote at the Annual General Meeting, and be elected to the Council of
the Institute. Hence, while the Statute provides plenty of reassurance for all those currently engaged in
the practice of accounting that they would be able to continue to do so, it provides for a separate category
(i.e. full members) who would be expected to lead the profession. As with similar Acts, the Statute
includes a list of bodies whose members can be admitted into initial full membership, without the need
to take any additional examinations. The bodies included in the Bill presented to Parliament were
members of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). When the Bill was discussed in
Parliament however, four bodies were added to the list: the Association of International Accountants of
UK; the Institute of Chartered Managers and Administrators; the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and
Administrators; and the Institute of Certified General Accountants of Canada. These bodies, apart from
the Institute of Certified General Accountants of Canada, are not members of IFAC.
6.           Of particular concern to professional accountants was the inclusion of the Institute of
Chartered Secretaries and Administrators since, while qualified in the field of their specialization, the
Chartered Secretaries training does not prepare them to be professionally qualified accountants. Further,
since there are more Chartered Secretaries in Uganda than professionally qualified accountants, if
admitted as full members they could dominate the Institute. Not being led by professional accountants
would seriously hinder the development of the accounting profession in Uganda as well as reduce the
possibility of the Ugandan qualification being internationally accepted. The dispute continued for an
extended period of time and delayed the holding of the first General Meeting and the election of the
Council; without these two key steps, the ICPAU could not commence its activities.
7.    IDA's position, after extensive discussions with various interested parties was that the Institute
should be led by professionally qualified accountants. Consequently, IDA support for the ICPAU was
contingent upon the Government amending the Accountants Statute to remove three bodies from the Act
as eligible for full initial membership of the ICPAU; the Association of International Accountants of UK;
the Institute of Chartered Managers and Administrators; and the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and
Administrators. This change to the Statute, together with the holding of the AGM of the Institute and
the election of the Council were conditions of negotiation of the project. These have now taken place.
Component Objectives and Description
8.    As mentioned above the accounting profession in Uganda is very small and consequently does
not have the necessary resources or expertise to establish an active professional body. If ICPAU is to
effectively carry out the objectives of a professional body there is a need for external assistance. This
component aims to support the establishment of the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Uganda,
and to provide the Institute with the assistance needed to accomplish its objectives.
9.     Commencement of ICPAU operations. The component would assist the ICPAU to commence
operations. The Governing Council of 12 members (eight elected, three ex-officio i.e. Commissioner
Treasury Office of Accounts, the Auditor General, the Commissioner of Education, and one member
appointed by the Minister of Finance) would be supported by the new administrative staff of the Institute
to fulfil the following functions



- 85 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 4
a.    Admit members to the Institute, issue certificates and licenses of practice, maintain and
publish a list of members of the Institute.
b.    Approve courses of study and qualifications for registration, provide for the registration
of students, and supervise and regulate the practical training and education of registered
students.
c.    Ensure the maintenance of professional standards amongst members and take steps to
acquaint members with methods and practices necessary to maintain these standards,
regulate the conduct and promote good ethical standards and discipline of members.
d.    Promote the usage of internationally accepted accounting and auditing standards in
Uganda and to make suitable adaption where necessary.
e.    Secure national and international recognition of the Institute.
f.    Maintain a library of books and periodicals, and encourage publication of similar books
and periodicals in Uganda.
g.    Encourage research in accountancy.
10.   To estimate the resources required to commence the implementation of the above activities, the
Council of the ICPA U would draw up a business plan, covering at least the next three years. 7his plan
is a condition of disbursement of the component. In the interim, initial indications of the immediate
funding needs are:
a.    the post of Secretary (the administrative head of the Institute). This post would be filled
by an Ugandan who must be acceptable to IDA. Appointment is a condition of
disbursement of this component.
b.    Rental of a small set of offices, which would include the provision and stocking of a
small library.
c.    Office furniture and equipment.
d.    Short-term technical assistance, through a twin, to assist the Institute adapt international
accounting and auditing standards to be suitable for Uganda, and to devise a code of
professional ethics, and funding for publishing these for members, students, and the
business community.
e.    Funding for the development and introduction of continuing professional education
courses.
11.   Development of a local professional qualification and associated examination. The primary
modality for development of a local qualification would be to help the Council of the Institute and the
Examination Board design a scheme of examinations, with detailed examination syllabuses and reading
lists, and prepare and moderate examination papers. Funding would be provided for a twinning



- 86 -
ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 4
arrangement which would provide short-term technical assistance. Further funding would also be
provided for publishing the above and holding seminars to inform students and the teaching institutions
of the new courses. It is projected that the first course of study for the CPA examinations will commence
in September 1996 and the first examination will be held in June 1997.
12.   Self-financing. An important goal for the Institute will be to become self-financing. Currently
the membership base of the ICPAU is small, with approximately 100 full members and 60 associate
members. This will not provide the Institute with sufficient revenue to fund all its activities. A potential
source of income for the Institute and the Examination Board will be student registration and examination
fees. There are estimated to be about 1000 students in Uganda studying for external accounting
qualifications. When the Institute is able to offer national examinations it will be able to recruit students.
Building up a student base will take time however, as existing students may wish to continue with their
current studies rather than switch to the ICPAU examinations. As a result of this, it is unlikely that the
ICPAU will become self-financing by the end of the project, and additional sources of funding will have
to be sought. One of the objectives of the business plan referred to above is to review post-project
financing of the ICPAU. A condition of disbursement of this component will be the signing of a
Subsidiary Grant Agreement between GOU and the ICPAU.
Twinning Arrangement
13.    As Uganda does not currently have the expertise in running an Accountancy Association
especially with respect to establishing its own examinations, a twinning arrangement would be established
with another professional accounting body to help in this regard. The twin will be a member body of
the International Federation of Accountants, with a good track record of setting examinations, and
developing accounting and auditing standards. The twin will provide short-term in-country inputs as
needed. In addition, the Secretary will spend some time with the twin learning how it operates.
Continuing Professional Education
14.    Besides the introduction of a professional qualification those accountants already qualified see the
need for subsequent professional training. Many of them have received no further training since
qualification, and they realize that they have not kept up-to-date with new techniques. In addition, there
are many people practicing accounting who have had no formal training. The profession sees ICPAU
as playing an important role in professional development by offering seminars. Initially the Institute aims
to offer four CPE courses per year on matters of interest to the profession. A questionnaire will be sent
to all members to identify training needs. These courses will form the basis of a more extensive CPE
program, which the Institute hopes to introduce after it has gained experience under the project. The
CPE courses will be a source of revenue for the Institute.
Project Implementation
15.   The Institute's Council will be responsible for implementing this component.



- 87 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 7
UGANDA INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SKILLS TRAINING FUNDS
Background
1.           Training of Civil Service staff has in the past been undertaken in an ad hoc manner.
There has been no overall training plan for GOU staff and a large proportion of the training has been
undertaken through donor funding, often in the context of specific projects. Further, the past approach
to the improvement of delivery of training in Uganda has focused upon improving the available supply
of training. Specific institutions were chosen and assisted, primarily by donors, through provision of:
civil works, equipment and technical assistance (including through twinning arrangements), overseas
training and study tours. I This approach has had two main shortcomings:
a.    Public and private sector entities which constitute the demand for training have had only
a marginal input into the structure of courses being provided by the training institutions.
The only choice available to these institutions has been to send their staff to the available
local training or send their staff outside Uganda at a higher cost to be trained in more
relevant skill areas. The lack of market orientation on the part of the training institutions
was due to a low impetus for cost recovery. Since the training institutions were being
funded directly by Governrnent or donors, the need to get revenues from the trainees was
not an overarching objective. This in turn meant that tailoring courses to trainee needs
and improving capacity utilization were not important priorities. Hence, the available
local supply of training determined the demand for local training rather than the demand
for training driving the supply of training.
b.    Other than the few institutions supported by donor funding, there was no broad based
development of local training institutions since there was no functioning market for
matching demand and supply of training. This situation was further exacerbated by the
existing training institutions being able to offer lower prices since they received direct
subsidy from Government and/or subsidies in kind from donor funded civil works,
equipment, etc.
Project Approach and Objectives
2.           Demand Based Approach. Given the shortcomings of the past approach described above,
the project attempts to develop a demand based approach which places the funds in the hands of the
institutions needing the training and allows these institutions to define their requirements and subsequently
This assessment was made based on a study sponsored by the Capacity Building Secretariat (CBS)
in the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning as part of the background work for the
preparation of the Government of Uganda's Capacity Building Plan. The report entitled Study
on Uganda Training Facilities and Impact on Performance was prepared by Development and
Management Consultants Inc., April 1991.



- 88 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 7
allows training institutions to compete for the provision of training. This approach is being tested in other
recently begun IDA projects in other African countries 2, One modality has been to focus at the
individual trainee level i.e. place demand directly in the hand of trainees by providing them with training
vouchers and let them choose the institution where they desire to be trained. This approach is suitable
for technical and vocational skills training. The second modality has been to provide the funds to the
institutions needing training which can then define their demand. This approach is more appropriate for
job specific skills that benefit the organization to a greater extent than the individual trainee. These skills
are systemic implementation skills.
3.           Focus on Implementation Skills. The need for general management and implementation
skills, in addition to technical skills, has been a recurrent theme in Uganda's educational policies since
the late 1960s. During the following twenty years, a number of studies aimed at identifying skill gaps in
the economy were prepared, including the most recent example of a National Manpower Planning Survey
completed in 1989. 3  The lack of such skills are among the hindrances to the growth and
competitiveness of private sector organizations and the effective delivery of services by the public sector.
The proposed project will concentrate on building local capacity in those disciplines which focus upon
implementation i.e. general management, finance and accounting, procurement and computing skills. In
addition, given the focus on the legal sector, legal skills have also been included for funding.
4.           Support to A Larger Number Of Training Institutions. This is an important element of
the project approach. The purpose of this is to broaden the underlying base of training suppliers in the
local market as well as to focus on a segment of the market which has the potential to develop further
but has historically been excluded from receiving Government or donor support since it constitutes a
second tier of the training suppliers' market. While there would be direct provision of inputs as under
the past approach, the support would avoid the earlier pitfalls by: (a) identifying the suppliers to be
strengthened on the basis of their technical responsiveness to training needs of the local market; (b)
targeting the assistance on the basis of the supplier's self-defined requirements; and (c) requiring a
substantial level of cost sharing. This new approach to strengthening training institutions is also being
attempted under another IDA project under development
2  The World Bank, Republic of Kenya, Staff Appraisal Report No. 12275-KE: The Micro and
Small Enterprise Training and Technology Project.
The World Bank, Republic of Cote D'Ivoire, Staff Appraisal Report No. 12850-IVC: Labor
Force Training Support Project.
3  Other studies of relevance include "Employment and Manpower Planning and Monitoring in
Uganda", October 1991, a study conducted under the auspices of the ILO by G. Okutho,
Manpower Planning Department, MFEP, and " National Manpower Survey- Census of Civil
Servants", 1988, by the Manpower Planning Department, MFEP.
4  Ghana: Vocational Skills and Informal Apprenticeship Support Project.



- 89 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 7
Component Objectives and Description
5.           This component will help establish a system to
a.    provide a demand based approach to improving the quality of training in implementation
skills; and
b.    improve the quality of training institutions supplying training in implementation skills.
6.    The component's objectives would be met through the establishment of two separate training
funds. The first fund would provide purchasing power to public and private sector institutions on a cost
sharing basis to competitively acquire their training needs from the local market. This fund would be
called the Public Sector and Private Sector Matching Grant Fund (Fund I). The second fund would be
available to selectively identified weak training institutions which would be assisted in strengthening
through staff training and acquisition of study materials and equipment on a cost sharing basis; it would
be called the Training Suppliers' Strengthening Fund (Fund II).
Institutional Framework
7.           This component would be managed and overall project administration would be
undertaken by the Capacity Building Secretariat. The component specific role is in line with the general
mandate identified for the CBS under the Ugandan Government's Capacity Building Plan i.e. to provide
the operational link between the training needs of public and private sector organizations and the training
providers. However, this necessitates the rebuilding of the CBS since while it has been in existence from
1991, it has been an ad hoc body and its members have full time duties elsewhere. The rebuilding
process has commenced with GOU appointing its Task Manager for the project as the Head of the CBS.
Further, the administration staff for the CBS have been identified and are expected to come from the
project office for the Economic and Financial Management Project. Staff dedicated to the training
programming, monitoring and evaluation are to be recruited. A short-term consultancy was undertaken
to define the Terms of Reference for the Training Funds component staff and prepare detailed guidelines
for the operation of Funds I and II and the impact evaluation. The process of recruiting Training Funds
component staff is underway.
Phasing of Implementation
8.           Once the Training Component Manager and staff are appointed it will be necessary for
them to be familiarized with the training processes through on-the-job training. This learning is expected
to occur during a pre-operational phase i.e. before the component begins disbursing funds. The proposed
approach is for the CBS to work closely with the Ministries of Public Service and Local Government as
these Ministries acquire training services for the Central Government and Local Government Capacity
Building components using the demand based procedures which are described in paras 11 through 13.
The CBS will then use this experience by acquiring training for the Legal Sector Reform and
Accountancy Strengthening components. After a sufficient period of on-the-job training has elapsed, the
capability of the CBS to implement operations under the Fund would be assessed. At the same time, the
implementation experience in Uganda (and other African countries where similar approaches are being
attempted) would be reviewed. Consequently, the condition of disbursement for the Training Funds
Component would be agreement between GOU and IDA that: (a) the CBS staff have demonstrated



- 90 -
ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 7
capability to implement the Training Funds component through (i) participation in the procurement of at
least two rounds of training under the Central or Local Government Capacity Building components and
(ii) satisfactory management of at least one round of training under the Legal Sector Reform or
Accountancy Strengthening components; and (b) the detailed guidelines in the Implementation Manual
pertaining to the implementation of the Training Funds component would have been reviewed and, if
warranted by the review, amended in the light of experience. It is expected that, based on the projected
schedule for hiring and training the Training Fund Component staff, the component would meet its
condition of disbursement no later than July 1, 1996 i.e. about one year after project effectiveness.
Assurances were also received at negotiations that a special review of the operations of the Training
Funds component would be undertaken after the end of the first year of operation of that component.
9.           Sensitization Seminars. Once a decision is made that the commencement of operations
under the component are imminent, the CBS would organize seminars to inform the local market about
the facility and to guide prospective participants on procedures required to acquire funding from: Fund
I for purposes of staff training; and Fund 11 for purposes of supplier strengthening.
The Public Sector and Private Sector Matching Grant Fund (Fund I)
10.          This fund would provide matching grants to public and private sector institutions for
training of their staff. For Central Ministries and Districts, Fund I would provide 90% of the resources
with 10% of the resources being provided by the Government entities; actual cost funded by Government
entities would be higher since training allowances would not be funded under this component.5 Private
sector organizations would access Fund I through trade/industry associations; the cost sharing
arrangement would be 50% of the costs of training to be provided by the private sector and 50% to be
provided by Fund I.  The fund would acquire training needs through a transparent and competitive
bidding process which will allow all local training institutions, both publicly funded and private, to
participate in service delivery as described in para 11 below.
11.          Approach for Procurement of Training Services under Fund 1. Procurement of training
services will commence with the submission of training requests in the designated skills areas by eligible
organizations (i.e. Central Ministries, districts or trade/industry associations) to the Capacity Building
Secretariat (CBS). The requirement for a cost sharing contribution will be the primary screening
mechanism for exclusion of gratuitous training requests. Requests from various entities would be
packaged on two criteria by the CBS. First, requests would be consolidated based on the skill area (e.g.
accountancy). Second, where the number of trainees in a given request may exceed the average capacity
of local training suppliers in the subject area, the training needs would be divided into two or more
requests for Training Services. After packaging the training plans, the CBS would request the training
services from suppliers by local advertisement. When proposals are received, an Evaluation Committee
would be set up to compare proposals and select the highest evaluated bidder based on the technical
proposal submitted (which would have a weightage of no less than 85 % of the evaluation points) and the
price of the proposal (which would have a weightage of a maximum of 15% of the evaluation points).
5  It is important to note that some Government ministries and districts would receive separate
training under other components which is required for the successful implementation of those
components.  If such Central ministries or districts require additional training, they can
participate under this Fund on the prescribed cost sharing basis.



- 91 -
ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 7
The Evaluation Committee would consist of the following: a representative from each benefiting
organization (i.e. Central ministry, district or trade/industry association), a member of the Training
Component staff of the CBS and an independent training expert to be appointed by CBS who would also
be acceptable to IDA.
12.           An important aspect of the selection process would be the technical evaluation criteria;
the categories for evaluation and the relative weights assigned to each category would be similar to those
normally designated in the selection of consultants under IDA  procedures.  Specifically, a large
proportion of the technical merit score would be based on:
a.     the quality of the technical proposal. The relevance of the training approach would be
the most important consideration. Factors considered would include training location
(e.g. on-the-job training for district staff vs. off-site training within district vs. training
in Kampala), customization (e.g. group training vs. individualized training, tailor-made
vs. standardized training, practically oriented vs. academic training);
b.     the experience of the firm and the instructors in delivering similar training. In the initial
stages, the CBS's principal information base would be from referees provided by the
training suppliers for similar work performed. However, as CBS develops its own
capability for training impact assessment (both through observation by its own staff and
through trainee evaluations), this information would also be used for purposes of
assigning marks to firms on this criteria.
13.           Once the best proposal has been selected, the CBS would verify the ability of the selected
supplier to deliver the service. This will necessitate the following steps to be undertaken by the CBS:
a.     verification of registration, accreditation and operating license and insurance;
b.     determination of the availability of trainers included in the technical proposals and
ensuring a sufficient ratio of professionally qualified staff in the relevant field of
expertise. A ratio of at least one professionally qualified staff for every fifteen to twenty
students proposed to be trained would be utilized to ensure a sufficient number of
trainers; and
c.     certification of physical facilities and equipment necessary to conduct training in the
selected subject area or evidence of ability to acquire such facilities (e.g. contingent
contracts) if the training contract is awarded to the supplier.
CBS would document its findings regarding the ability of suppliers to deliver on the contract and these
would be reviewed by IDA staff during project supervision.
14.            Timing of Operation and Size of Fund L. Fund I would commence operations in July 1996
and two rounds of training (July 1996 to June 1997 and July 1997 to June 1998) would be funded. Since
the fund is being piloted, it is difficult to completely estimate and satisfy all training needs and these
funds would be allocated on a first come first served basis. The primary mechanism for screening out
gratuitous training requests will be cost sharing. For Government organizations, the 10% of the cost of
training and funding of the training allowances (which are excluded from funding under this component)



- 92 -
ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 7
is expected to result in rationalizing requests. For private sector organizations, the delivery mechanism
(i.e. through registered industry/trade associations) and the higher level of cost sharing of 50% are
expected to achieve the same results.
The Training Suppliers' Strengthening Matching Grant Fund (Fund 11)
15.    This fund would be available to selected weak training suppliers to improve their service delivery
capacity. To qualify for support under Fund II, the training suppliers will have to be
a.     Majority locally owned;
b.     Receiving no other assistance from donor funded projects;
either c.     During the pre-operational phase of the component, the firm should have: (i) competed
for provision of training services under the Central and Local Government Capacity
Building components by submitting bids for at least 1/4 of the requests for training
services in one area of implementation skills; (ii) have consistently ranked within the 20
percent of the top technical marks during bid evaluation during the entire pre-operational
phase and not secured a single training contract from the Central or Local Government
Capacity Building Components.
or    d.      During the first year of the operational phase, the firm should have: (i) competed for
provision of training services under Fund I having submitted bids for at least 1/4 of the
requests for training services in one area of implementation skills; (ii) have consistently
ranked within the 20 percent of the top technical marks during bid evaluation during the
entire pre-operational phase and not secured a single training contract from Fund I.
16.          Each training supplier could receive assistance for staff training, acquisition of training
related study materials and books and equipment. There will be several checks and balances built into
the system to prevent misuse of strengthening funds. First, no suppliers which have won contracts under
Fund I will be eligible for funding under Fund II. Second, no funds would be provided directly to
training suppliers; all training, study material, books and equipment will be acquired on their behalf by
CBS through a competitive process. Third, cost sharing will be differentiated based upon the cost
element: training of trainers would be funded at 90%, study material and books at 50% and equipment
at 25%. Fourth, no expenditures on civil works or operating costs will be allowable under Fund II.
Fifth, in order to receive the services/equipment under the project, the institutions to be strengthened will
need to first provide their contribution to the CBS.
17.          Training institutions eligible to apply for funding under Fund II will submit their
strengthening (i.e. staff development/training and equipment) requests to the CBS. The proposals would
state the requirements for staff training in person-weeks while requirements for study material and
equipment would be sufficiently detailed to enable the CBS to procure the needed equipment. The
strengthening proposals would cover a twelve month period.  CBS would conduct the bidding and
selection processes similar to those described for Fund I training and complete selection. Advertising of
the requests for strengthening proposals may be made in other countries in the region to encourage
institutions with the capacity to deliver Training of Trainers to participate. Further, equipment purchases
would be made in accordance with IDA's International Competitive Bidding processes. The CBS will



- 93 -
ANNEX 11
Page 7 of 7
be required to physically inspect facilities and equipment provided under the project for use by suppliers.
Its findings would be formally documented and should be available to IDA during project supervision.
18.           Timing of Operation and Size of Fund 11. Fund II is expected to commence operations
at the beginning of the component. There are expected to be two rounds of assistance: at the start of
the component and one year thereafter. Based on the amount being allocated for each institution to be
strengthened and the number of training institutions in the local market which appear to be eligible for
strengthening on the basis of a survey, the size of Fund II has been set at $1 million.
Impact Evaluation
19.   As the CBS gains experience in administering the procurement processes for both Funds, its
emphasis would shift to impact evaluation. This will be undertaken in two ways. First, CBS staff will
observe the training sessions and assess the effectiveness of training delivery mechanisms as compared
to the technical approaches initially proposed. Second, the trainees would also provide their own
assessment of the course, the trainers and the applicability to their actual work. Both these assessments
are expected to feed back into the evaluation process and would be used in scoring some criteria of the
technical evaluation. Additionally, the data collected would be made publicly available to all institutions
interested in conducting training outside of the proposed project.
Training for Comnunuity-Based Groups
20.    As the decentralization program of the Government proceeds, the role of local communities in
defining and participating in service delivery is likely to increase. A comprehensive IDA sector study
of the Non Governmental sector in Uganda 6 indicated that the best approach to strengthening the ability
of the Community-Based Groups in Uganda was to use local and international NGOs as capacity
builders/trainers. Based on this concept, the Economic Development Institute has been assisting the
UNDP in developing a project which is projected to commence in January 1995 and be completed in
three years i.e. by December 1997.
21.    Commencing in January 1997, GOU and IDA would review the experience of the UNDP project.
If it has been successful in increasing the capacity of the CBGs in project planning and implementation,
then commencing in July 1997, a small sum ($250,000) would be made available for this initiative out
of Fund I.
6  The World Bank, Republic of Uganda, Report No. 12262-UG: The Role of Nongovernmental
Organizations and Community-Based Groups in Poverty Alleviation.



- 94 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL
Outline
PREFACE
CHAPTER I
PROJECT SUMMARY
CHAPTER II
ACTION PLAN: CENTRAL GOVERNMENT CAPACITY BUILDING COMPONENT
A. Component Description
B. Implementation Timetable
C. Terms of Reference
Cl. Consultancies
C2. In-house Implementation
D. Training Plan
E. Outputs
CHAPTER III
ACTION PLAN: LOCAL GOVERNMENT CAPACITY BUILDING COMPONENT
A. Component Description
B. Implementation Timetable
C. Terms of Reference
Cl. Consultancies
C2. In-house Implementation
D. Training Plan
E. Outputs
CHAPTER IV
ACTION PLAN: LEGAL SECTOR REFORM COMPONENT
A. Component Description
B. Implementation Timetable
C. Terms of Reference
Cl. Consultancies
C2. In-house Implementation
D. Training Plan
E. Outputs



- 95 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
CHAPTER V
ACTION PLAN: ACCOUNTANCY STRENGTHENING COMPONENT
A. Component Description
B. Implementation Timetable
C. Terms of Reference
C1. Consultancies
C2. In-house Implementation
D. Training Plan
E. Outputs
CHAPTER VI
ACTION PLAN: TRAINING FUNDS COMPONENT
A. Component Description
B. Implementation Timetable
C. Terms of Reference
Cl. Consultancies
C2. In-house Implementation
D. Training Plan
E. Outputs
CHAPTER VII
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION PROCEDURES
A. Project Administration
Al. Project Administration Structure
A2.   Terms of Reference for
Project Administration
B. Procurement of Goods and Consultants
C. Selection and remuneration of GOU staff
D. Procurement of Training
E. Disbursement Procedures
F. Funds Management
G. Accounting and Auditing
H. Reporting and Reviews
I. Legal Agreements



- 96 -
Annex 13
SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
1.    Government of Uganda Capacity Building Plan, 1994
2.    Government of Uganda Technical Assistance Policy, 1993
3.    Accountants Statute, 1992
4.    Local Government (Resistance Councils) Statute, 1993
5.    Laws (Revised Edition) Statute, 1994
6.    Statutory Instrument - Accountants Statute (Amendment) Order, 1994
7.    IDA Sector Work on Capacity Building, 1991
8.    IDA District Management Study, 1992
9.    Civil Service Reform Action Program and Quarterly Updates.
10.   Survey of Accounting Assistance Requirements for first thirteen decentralized districts.
11.   Survey of Civil Works Refurbishment for district administration offices.
12.   Survey of District Registry Requirements.
13.   Study for National Records Center.
14.   Draft Report - Law Libraries Study.
15.   Draft Report - Devolution of Administrator General.
16.   Draft Report - Devolution of Registrar General.
17.   Draft Report - Operations of the Training Fund.



SUDAN                                                              UGANDA
X    X /   %,                ~DECENTRALIZATION
~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ J ~~~~~~~~~~~FINANCIALLY DECENTRALIZED
t  \            KOTIDOe        k                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PHASE 111
j   t   /   ;+    \;  <    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ^)                     i ~~~~~DISTRICT CAPITALS
ZAIRE                                                                       .t}f+ct.<MRTS*NATIONAL CAPITAL
[ NEB81d3  NEBS;<;   ;   .   <                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DISTRICT BOUNDARIES'
) -\ - */- *- SI sl it APAC .t. ; \ ~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
?              2                       <e-9e    X ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOROT) Jq  
t /   MASINDI      C'       tw                    iOOiTr*                          eu!n  ?  p '" }? h D  Csr  t   K-rtIJ  tb-)lenS.c
H0IPM#X                              eqJAs                          KAPCHORWAf
4 , r HOtMA C>b$ n _ g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALLISA "^5Teb  Qe r1r
); ';   <  :'; 1:       K180GA    L  EIRO          AULI,                       jrl.todt  G 
e , X tr,h~~~KIEALE                               ,#t,( C.  ;. /lno'
; K~~~~~~~~UENDE- 
W   .   8st4Y  - K?0A                                                             /:                                   . 
J       Co                                                                                      KEENYARI     Ar_              r
rn -    J       f                                             t                                    \-                                              .r 
w   oL>-f            <                                        ANZaNIA " 
_-    6NGRWAD                                       ?]                                                                                            -









IMAGING-CATALOGUERS
Report No:      13610 UG
Type: SAR



