Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
1Repoirt No: 243§9
1Plv1LEMI  N7A'I HDN CO  PLEP  JN REPOR7
(IIA-27360; PPIFffPO750; 71F-M296; TIF-M692)
CRIEDE7
1IU THE AMODUNT OIF SHDR 2S.0 MKLLhCN
(US$360A MELLMDN IEQU1IVALENT)
TO =    REPUIL]EC OF UGANDA
IFOR~ AN
ffN57ETU7HPINAL CAJACETY BUILDHNG PRGOIECT
J1UNE 26 2002
1UNk DeDe $tou ReThrm and Cgapalcky BufldhnF Unma
A¢fio lReegiim
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 2002))
Currency Unit =  Uganda Shillings (USH)
USD 1.00   = USH 918.17000 (5/9/1995)
USH 1797.30005 (6/26/2002)
USH I   = US$0.00109 (5/9/1995)
= US$0.00056 (6/26/2002)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATC           Accounting Technicians Certificate
CAPEP         Capacity and Performance Enhancement Program
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CBP           Capacity Building Plan
CBS           Capacity Building Secretariat
CPA           Certified Public Accountants
CPPR          Country Portfolio Performance Review
CSR           Civil Service Reform
DRTF          District Revolving Transport Fund
ECSAFA        Eastern Central and Southern African Federation of Accountants
EFMP          Economic and Financial Management Project
FMS           Fiscal Management Systems
GOU           Government of Uganda
ICPAU         Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Uganda
IDI           Institutional Development Impact
IFAC          International Federation of Accountants
IFMIS        Integrated Financial Management Information System
ILI           International Law Institute
LDC           Legal Development Center
LGDP          Local Government Development Program
MFEP          Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MJCA          Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs
MOLG          Ministry of Local Government
MPS           Ministry of Public Service
MTEF          Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NRM           National Resistance Movement
NSDS          National Service Delivery Survey
PAEB          Public Accountants Examination Board
PSC           Project Steering Committee
PSC           Public Service Commission
PSRP          Public Service Reform Programme
PSRRC         Public Service Review and Reorganization Commission
ROM           Results-Oriented Management
TFC           Training Funds Component
TNA           Training Needs Assessment
Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
Country Director:   Judy O'Connor
Sector Manager:    Brian Levy
Task Team Leader:    Navin Girishankar



UGANDA
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                        I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry  5
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                               12
5.  Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                25
6.   Sustainability                                                   27
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                      30
8. Lessons Learned                                                    32
9. Partner Comments                                                   34
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                  35
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                  38
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                  40
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                  41
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components  43
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                     44
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                 45






IC lTs ype: Core ICR             R eporl Doate: June 26 2002l
1. Project Data
Name: INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY            L/C/TFNumber:   IDA-2736; PPFI-P8750
BUILDING PROJECT
Country/Depart ment:  UGANDA                                Region:  Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector.  BA - Civil Service Reform, BD - Decentralization, BF - Public Financial
Management, BI - Institutional Development, BJ - Judicial Reforn
KEY DATES
Orizinal           Revised/Actual
PCD:    12/15/1993                 Effective.  07/01/1995        08/01/1995
Appraisal:  06/27/1994                    MTR:    01/01/1998         09/24/1997
A pproval:  06/01/1995                 Closing:   12/31/2000        06/30/2002
Borrower/lmplementing Agency:  Government of Uganda/Capacity Building Secretariat
Other Partners:  Government of Austria
Government of Norway
STAFF                           Current                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                Callisto Madavo                 Edward Jaycox
Country Manager:                Judy O'Connor                  Michael Carter
Sector Manager:                 Brian Levy                     Robert Hindle
Team Leader at ICR:            Navin Girishankar               Gaiv Tata
ICR Primary Authors:            Navin Girishankar
Sati Achath
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=l-lighly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome:      S
Sustainability:   HL
Institutional Development Impact:  SU
Bank Performance:     S
Borrower Performance:     S
QAG (if available)             ICR
Quality at Entry:  Not available                 S
Project at Risk at Any Time:  No



- 2 -
Background. After assuming power in 1986, the National Resistance Movement (NRM)
Govemment undertook a far-reaching Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in order to revive
Uganda's public and pnvate institutions, and rebuild its human capacities after nearly two
decades of economic mismanagement and political chaos. Underpinning this recovery effort was
a histonc process of state transformation, manifest in a bevy of constitutional, legal, and
institutional reforms between 1993 and 1997. Over this period, the Government of Uganda
(GOU) sought to advance and sustain Uganda's transformation through three long term strategic
initiatives-namely, decentralization, civil service reform (CSR), and a national capacity building
plan. Each of these initiatives, described below, were well underway when the Government and
the Bank embarked on the identification of the Uganda-Institutional Capacity Building Pr-oject.
Civil Service Reformzs. As part of its fiscal adjustment program in the late 1980s and early 1990s,
the GOU successfully undertook several measures to halt the decline in standards and efficiency
of public administration, and create a small, well-motivated civil service to deliver essential
services in an efficient and effective manner. These included a reduction in the number of
ministries from 38 in 1989 to 21 in 1994, rationalization in ministerial structures, withdrawal of
govemment from direct involvement in productive activities, a significant reduction of Central
Government staff from 320,000 to 148,000 by 1994 (through the removal of ghost workers,
redundant employees, over-aged civil servants, as well as poor performers), and increases in the
real wages of civil servants.
Notwithstanding these remarkable achievements, a 1990 report of the Public Service Review and
Reorganization Commission (PSRRC) identified the importance of advancing CSR beyond the
immediate fiscal concerns associated with staff size and wage bill sustainability to longer term
issues of incentives, restructuring, and operational effectiveness. The Commission recommended
a more thorough review and revision of public sector remuneration (including salaries and
benefits) and grading policies; improvements in payroll administration; restructunng in line with
functional decentralization; strengthening of personnel and ethics management; and development
of policies and procedures for asset and facilities management. Following the completion of the
PSRRC report and the downsizing efforts mentioned above, the Govemment-with external
assistance including the IDA-financed Uganda Economic and Financial Management Project
(EFMP)-focused on restonrng the efficiency of core central govemment functions such as
budgeting and financial management. It also sought to undertake diagnostic work pursuant to the
restructuring of central government ministries. As the Govemment's public sector reform agenda
progressed, however, it became increasingly apparent that democratic decentralization was the
driver of state transfornation in Uganda, and the effectiveness of CSR would depend on whether
it could responsively support the development of local governments.
Decentralization. Since the early 1980s, the NRM viewed decentralization as a central tenet of
its objective of democratizing Ugandan society and polity. Accordingly, Resistance Councils
(RCs) were progressively introduced (particularly in rural areas) during the 1981-85 armed
struggle, and following the NRM victory in 1986, were legally established through the Resistance
Councils and Committees Statute No. 9 of 1987. The 1987 statute conferred considerable
administrative authority to local councils, and in the process, enabled local communities to check
the hitherto monopolistic administrative, judicial, and political powers of traditional chiefs. By
the early 1990s, the Govemment was considering even more ambitious and far-reaching options
for reorienting the state and its relationship to society. These included plans for constitutionally
mandating the creation of local political executives with vast responsibilities and powers (such as
service delivery), and empowering these executives with the fiscal and administrative resources
to fulfill these new mandates. By 1993, the enactment by Parliament of the Local Governments
(Resistance Councils) Statute marked the first of three watershed moments in the elaboration of a



- 3 -
formal, rule-based framework for democratic, decentralized governance.  The statute
circumscribed the role of central ministries, and assigned to district councils expenditure and
revenue responsibilities related to service delivery system and poverty eradication. Furthermore
it supported the decentralization of personnel management through the establishment of District
Service Committees, as well as the review of district staffing and structures.
The second critical moment in state transformation was the promulgation of the 1995
Constitution, which further defined the powers, responsibilities, and mandates of districts and
other lower levels of government. The basic elements of an intergovemmental fiscal system-
defining three sets of transfer mechanisms, namely, conditional, unconditional, and equalization
grants-were delineated, and notably, placed significant authority in the hands of District Service
Commissions to hire, fire, and manage frontline personnel. These changes in the overall
constitutional framework were mirrored by more focused efforts to experiment with fiscal and
administrative decentralization. For instance, the Govemment proceeded with the transfer of
responsibilities to select districts for managing expenditures on the basis of specific votes for
sector ministries that were decentralizing service delivery.
Indicative of the Govemment's commitment to democratic decentralization, the above-mentioned
legal and constitutional reforms were followed by efforts to decentralize recurrent budgets in
1994/95, and the initiation of unconditional transfers (or block grants) on a formula-basis in
1995/96. Plans for the transfer of broader service delivery responsibilities to districts were being
prepared and discussed. At the same time, major fiscal, personnel, and institutional challenges
remained. These included lack of appropriate financial and personnel management systems or
registries, shortage of skilled staff, lack of clarity on the specific of expenditure and revenue
responsibilities of sub-county govemments within districts. Significant assistance was required to
ensure that districts would be capable of taking on significant service delivery responsibilities in
an efficient and sustainable manner.
In retrospect, the 1993-1997 period offered a window of opportunity within which significant-
even bold-changes in the formal structure of state institutions were possible. With highly
participatory, often contentious debate-interspersed with institutional experimentation, review,
and innovation-these formed the critical moments (for example, the enactment of the 1993
statute, or the promulgation of the 1995 Constitution) when the "rules of the game" for
decentralized governance in Uganda were formnally established. Many of the opportunities and
risks associated with this rapidly unfolding process were apparent during the identification and
preparation of ICBP. A key issue for the ICR, therefore, is whether and how the strategic choices
concerning ICBP's design and implementation contributed to a third and crucial moment of
transformation, that is, the passage of the 1997 Local Govemment Act, as well as a subsequent
efforts to build an accountable local govemment tier.
Coordination Framework for Technical Assistance and Capacity Building. Several members of
Uganda's aid consortia provided early assistance-in the form of technical assistance and
capacity building-to Uganda's institutional transformation efforts. The "first generation" of this
support tended to be projectized and fragmented. In response, the Government recognized the
need for a strategic framework to coordinate and programmatize much-needed assistance from
donors. The Uganda Policy on Technical Assistance (as part of a UNDP-funded National
Capacity Planning exercise) was launched in 1993 and sought to correct the historical bias
towards free-standing technical assistance (TA) that was largely comprised of "small disjointed
project intervention that usually have little impact on the overall economic performance."
Accordingly, the new policy sought to ensure inter alia that (i) TA activities were in line with
national and budgetary priorities; (ii) the Government would take the lead in project



- 4 -
identification; (iii) all TA projects would be channeled through the Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning (MFEP); (iv) TA was focused on the motivation of Ugandan nationals and
the provision of an enabling environment for the civil service; (v) national execution by the
Government would serve as the primary modality for implementing TA projects; and (vi) TA
would focus on the prnvate sector and non-governmental organizations as well.
In addition, the 1994 Capacity Building Plan (CBP) for Uganda-based on a 1990 sector report
on Capacity Building prepared by the Government of Uganda and IDA-was designed to help
coordinate donor assistance to the Government of Uganda in priority areas. The Capacity
Building Secretanat in MFEP was tasked with the policy and coordination role to guide capacity
building efforts in Uganda. Several capacity building priorities emerged dunng the preparation of
the Plan: legal and judicial systems, the accountancy professions, local training institutions,
manpower planning, economic policy analysis, return of skilled Ugandans, local consultancy
profession, technical and vocational training, contribution of women to policy development and
management, and non-govemmental institutions.
Legal Sector, Accounting Profession, and Local Training Institutions. Three areas identified
under the CBP in particular-the legal sector, accountancy profession, and local training
institutions-were considered critical to Uganda's private sector-led development strategy. First,
the key requirements in the legal and judicial sector included the updating of outdated laws;
strengthening of enforcement mechanisms and institutions (such as the Ministry of Justice and
Constitutional Affairs (MJCA), the judiciary, the Law Council, and the Law Development
Centre); insufficient staffing of lawyers and paralegal staff; absence of in-service training
programs; lack of proper facilities and equipment in legal institutions; and lack of access to
documents on the Laws of Uganda. By the early-to-mid 1990s, the Government had taken
measures to strengthen the capacity of the sector including increasing the salaries of MJCA
lawyers in 1994.
Second, the quality of accounting in Uganda-critical to public sector accountability and private
sector development-had fallen behind other African countries due to lack of support from
Government for the profession including a local professional qualification. With only a hundred
professionally qualified accountants and a shortage in accounting technicians, most accounting
jobs in the private and public sectors in Uganda in the early 1990s were filled with personnel
without fornal accounting qualifications. The demand for increased educational opportunities in
accountancy and a local professional accounting qualification were widely acknowledged.
Against this backdrop, the GOU had taken steps to strengthen the profession including the
passage of the Accountants Statute, which established the Institute of Certified Public
Accountants of Uganda (ICPAU) to regulate the profession, maintain standards, and the Public
Accountants Examination Board (PAEB) to conduct accounting examinations. An important
issue related to this legislation was the view of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and
Administrators whose members sought full (or professional) membership in ICPAU.
Third, the CBP also sought to alleviate problems associated with donor-financed capacity
building projects. Technical assistance and training tended to be ad hoc, focused on individual
rather than institution-wide needs, and heavily dependent on expatriates. An alternative approach
was envisaged that would focus on expanding the choices available to public sector bodies with
regards to training their staff, market-orientation in the provision of training and consulting
services, and the development of service standards for knowledge services.



- 5 -
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
It was against this backdrop that ICBP was appraised on June 27, 1994 and declared effective on
August 1, 1995. The project sought to establish greater local institutional and human capacity to
develop and implement public policy, and support the growth of the private sector through: (a)
supporting the continuation of the Civil Service Reform (CSR); (b) assistance to Government of
Uganda (GOU) in its decentralization program; and (c) strengthening the legal and financial
accountability framework and institutions.
Given the significant technical and capacity building requirements of Uganda's rapidly unfolding
institutional transformation process in the early to mid-1990s, the ICR rates ICBP's focus on civil
service refonn and decentralization as both relevant and responsive to the client's needs. It was
also appropriate-subject to the GOU's ability manage project complexity-to include initial
support for the legal and accountability framework, and local training institutions as a means of
strengthening the institutional underpinnings of private sector-led development and building
Uganda's "capacity to build capacity."
Specifically, project objectives were relevant because they were closely harnonized with
democratic decentralization (that is, the key driver of Uganda's transformation process); linked to
the CAS objectives and relevant GOU sector strategies; grounded in timely diagnostic work as
well as lessons from fast evolving and growing portfolio; and strategically focused on longer term
institutional development.
*  Supported unfolding process of state transformation: By initiating support for the
Government's decentralization program in the mid-1990s, ICBP was well-positioned to meet
the technical assistance and capacity building needs of rapidly evolving changes in the
constitutional, legal, and institutional underpinnings of the Ugandan state. It not only
reinforced the Government's objectives of developing an accountable local government tier,
but also ensured that efforts would be made to harmonize the continuing civil service reforms
(such as the development of budgeting and personnel management systems, and ministerial
restructuring) with the requirements of democratic decentralization.
A second dimension of Uganda's institutional change agenda was the withdrawal of the state
from direct involvement in productive activities, and the creation of an enabling environment
for private sector-led economic growth. Support for the legal sector reforms and accountancy
profession under ICBP was intended to strengthen the accountability and legal framework for
private sector development.
*  Linked to CAS and relevant GOUsector strategies: The project's objectives were also closely
aligned with three priorities in the 1995 CAS-namely, improving economic growth,
supporting human resources development; and enhancing provision of public services. In
addition, support under ICBP was designed to support implementation of various GOU
programs and sector strategies such as the CSR, the Capacity Building Plan for Uganda, and
the Uganda Policy on Technical Assistance.
*  Grounded in timely analytical work and support under earlier operations: A wide range of
upstream analytical work-some of which was supported by IDA early on and in a
collaborated manner with the GOU and interested donors-informed the identification and
preparation of ICBP. These included the findings of the 1990 PSSRC; a 1992 IDA-financed



- 6 -
District Managemnent Study (Report No. 10695-UG), and a 1990 IDA-financed sector report
on capacity building. In addition, the project built on and complemented initiatives financed
under previous IDA operations including the District Reviews of staffing and structures
(under the 1993 EFMP); downsizing of civil service staff, restructuring of select ministries,
and payroll auditing (under the 1991 SACI and 1994 SACII); monetization of benefits for
civil servants (under the 1994 SACII); as well as strengthening of district level expenditure
management (under the 1997 SACIII).
Shifted IDA focus to programmatic capacity building for improved perfornmance: ICBP also
represented an important shift in IDA's assistance strategy towards long term institutional
development in Uganda.  The project signaled the Bank's intention to move beyond
providing short-term capacity inputs required to implement the ERP, and initiate a
comprehensive capacity building program to support the GOU's long term institutional
transformation objectives such as improving civil service management, deepening democratic
decentralization, and fostering an enabling environment for private sector development.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives remained unchanged through the life of the project.
3.3 Original Components:
The project was intended to achieve its objectives over a five-year period through the following
components: (A) Central Government Capacity Building; (B) Local Govemment Capacity
Building; (C) Legal Sector Reform; (D) Accountancy Profession; and (E) Training Funds.
Component A and B were designed to support the Govemment's civil service reform and
decentralization efforts, while Component C and D aimed to develop Uganda's legal and financial
accountability framework. Component E provided for a cross-cutting, demand-driven instrument
for financing training on a cost-recovery basis.
The Ministry of Public Service (MPS), the Decentralization Secretariat in the Ministry of Local
Government (MOLG), and ICPAU-responsible for the Central Government, Local Government,
and Accountancy Components respectively-were adequately resourced and capacitated to support
implementation of their respective components. While the MJCA did not have a sirmilar level of
capacity to implement the Legal Sector Component, support from the Capacity Building Secretariat
(CBS), established in MFEP in 1991, was to help during the initial stages of the project. The CBS
was adequately staffed and resources to undertake the overall coordination and project management
of ICBP as well as the implementation of the Training Funds Component.
Each component is described below in detail along with original commitments.
A. Central Government Capacity Building Component (USD 6.62 million): This component
sought to support the Govemment's Civil Service Reform (CSR) program by bringing several
ongoing reform activities to completion and developing the next stage of the reform process.
This involved continued assistance in (i) streamlining of the civil service, (ii) improving the
transparency of personnel management, (iii) focusing on the civil service for efficient and
effective service delivery, and (iv) helping identify institutional training needs.
First, support for streamlining the civil service involved improving central personnel management
systems; supporting key bodies and staff undertaking a civil service-wide classification of
personnel for potential termination as a result of restructuring/redundancy activities; supporting



-7 -
the implementation of ministerial restructuring plans, as well as harmonization of new structures
with the requirements of district-level decentralization; and strengthening ministry-level
personnel management functions.
Second, improving the transparency of personnel administration comprised strengthening
personnel management practices by establishing new salary structure, and introducing civil
service examinations and Performance Recognition System; developing a new Code of Conduct
for all civil servants; and strengthening MPS Department of Inspection through development of
inspection procedures and staff training.
Third, focusing the civil service on effective service delivery was to be realized through the
introduction of Results-Oriented Management (ROM) and achievement of definite objectives
within specified time targets. The project supported a baseline Service Delivery Survey for
Central Ministries for collating data on quantifiable outputs and user perception surveys. In
addition, efficiency gains were to be achieved through strengthening of facilities management and
records management.
Finally, as a complement to support provided under the Training Funds Component (TFC),
ministry- or agency-wide training needs were to be achieved through the development of training
plans and senior management training.
B. Local Government Capacity Building Component (USD 14.72 million): This component
was designed to assist local governments through the Ministry of Local Government to improve
their abilities to properly manage and administer their responsibilities, particularly those related
to service delivery, in a viable and sustainable manner. Specifically, the component sought to
complement support provided by DANIDA in (i) defining an intergovernmental fiscal systems,
(ii) strengthening financial and personnel management systems, (iii) introducing ROM in the
local level, (iv) supporting the physical infrastructure and transport needs of local government.
First, support for the development a robust intergovernmental system involved the definition and
implementation of an appropriate local government financial system including the
decentralization of the development budget through inter alia a study of options for establishing
and capitalizing a revolving development fund.
Second, strengthening of financial and personnel management structures, systems and procedures
consisted of support for computerization of accounts; preparation and auditing of final accounts;
consolidation of payroll processing for all district-level and delegated (formerly central
government) staff; and preparation of resource endowment profiles.
Third, introduction of ROM at the district level was designed to complement similar efforts in
central line ministries. Sensitization and training in ROM were to be provide the basis for
incorporation of results-orientation in local government budgeting procedures with the 1996/97
budget cycle.
Fourth, support for re-tooling was designed to assist in the procurement of various goods and
works necessary to establish a reasonable level of physical infrastructure, and refurbishing of
existing structures to provide modest office in district administrations. In addition, a Revolving
Fund was to be established to meet the transportation needs of districts through purchase of
vehicles on a cost-recovery basis.



C. Legal Sector Reform Component (USD 8.24 million): In supporting key aspects of the
Govemment's National Capacity Building Plan related to pnvate sector development, the
component aimed to assist the commercial aspects of the law and the settlement of civil disputes,
both of which were in line with the Bank's focus on economic development. Specifically, the
component focused on (i) legal education, training, and accreditation of lawyers; (ii) law revision
and reformr; (iii) law reporting; (iv) institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Justice and
Constitutional Affairs (MJCA) and the judiciary; and (v) improving the cost efficiency and
delivery of legal services. The project did not seek to finance other aspects of the Government's
overall strategy for the legal sector.
First, in supporting legal education and accreditation, a study was envisaged to evaluate the
existing status of legal education in Uganda, with a view to finding ways and means of making it
more relevant and responsive to the changing conditions in the country. This included a review
of alternatives to the Legal Development Center's (LDC's) existing monopoly status in the area
of legal education and training. The study was to provide a basis for adoption of a satisfactory
policy on legal education.
Second, the Credit was to support the revision and amendment of laws in order to modernize the
overall legal framework consistent with the Government's stated objective of promoting private
sector-level growth. In addition, it was envisaged that the component would help finance the
reform of Domestic Relations Laws, which primarily impacted the rights of women, and therefore
influenced their social status and ability to engage independently in productive economic activity.
Third, the component aimed to support the consolidation of Uganda's laws into a senres of
volumes to ensure easy access to participants in the legal process. This exercise was to be
undertaken through parallel donor financing (specifically, USAID was to assist in the
consolidation of laws, while ODA would support the printing of laws). The component also
sought to reduce the backlog in the preparation and publication of Law Reports.
Fourth, institutional strengthening of the MJCA and the judiciary involved substantial staff
training, access to legal information (for example, law books, updated and revised Laws of
Uganda, the latest case laws), and increased access to other critical inputs.
Finally, the component sought to improve the cost efficiency and delivery of legal services by
assisting the Administrator-General's and the Registrar-General's Departments.
D. Accountancy Profession Component (USD 0.98 million): This component sought to support
the development of the professional association (ICPAU), the establishment of a local
professional qualification and examining capability, and the introduction of local accounting and
auditing standards.
First, assistance to ICPAU to commence its operations and fulfill the following functions:
managing membership of its professional and student base, ensunng the maintenance of
professional standards amongst members; promoting the usage of internally accepted accounting
and auditing standards in Uganda; and securing international recognition.
Second, the component sought to help develop a local professional qualification and associated
examination, which would include design of a scheme of examinations, with detailed examination
syllabi and reading lists, and preparation and moderation of examination papers.



- 9 -
Third, funding under the component was designed to help provide Continuing Professional
Education and training to members of the profession.
E. Training Funds Component (USD 7.02 million): The component intended to develop a
system to strengthen (i) implementation skills in the public and private sectors; and (ii) public
and private sector training institutions through the provision of limited assistance on a
competitive basis. It consisted of two Training Funds managed by the Capacity Building
Secretariat (CBS) in the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP):
First, the Public and Private Sector Matching Grant Fund (Fund I) sought to provide matching
grants to public and private sector institutions for training of their staff. For central ministnes and
districts, Fund I provided 90% of the resources with 10% of the resources being provided by the
government entities. Private sector organizations would access Fund I through trade/industry
associations; the cost sharing arrangement was 50% of the costs of training provided by the
private sector and 50% was provided by Fund I. The Fund was to acquire training needs through
a transparent and competitive bidding process which would allow all local training institutions,
both publicly funded and private, to participate in service delivery.
Second, the Training Supplier's Strengthening Matching Grant Fund (Fund II) aimed to finance
capacity building for selectively identified weak training suppliers with the potential to provide
high quality services on a competitive basis. Under this Fund, each training supplier could
receive assistance for staff training (up to 90% of cost), acquisition of training-related study
matenals (up to 50% of cost), and equipment (up to 25% of cost).
3.4 Revised Components:
The components remained unchanged through the life of the project.
3.5 Quality at Entry: '
The ICR rates quality at entry for the project as satisfactory because of its integrated support for
public sector reforms; its participatory approach to design; incorporation of lessons leamed from
past experience; design of innovative mechanisms for demand-driven capacity building;
consideration of risk factors and risk mitigation measures (particularly on CSR and
decentralization); and robust implementation arrangements to manage complexity. These
strengths in project design outweighed weaknesses related primarily to coherence, sequencing,
and realism in terms of the magnitude of certain project tasks.
Strengths. In addition to the factors that contributed to the relevance of the operation, the
following elements of design contributed to the ICBP's quality at entry:
Integrated support for client-driven public sector reforrns. The value-added of ICBP's design
in terms of the supporting Uganda's public sector reform agenda was two-fold. First, the
project integrated support of Uganda's homegrown civil service, decentralization, and
financial management reforms. The development of cross-cutting personnel and budgeting
systems along with the restructuring of line agencies was in principle designed to strengthen
the enabling environment (for example, greater predictability and transparency of resource
flows, better incentives for staff) within which local governments functioned, while
Since the project design pre-dates the existence of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG), there is no
official assessment of the project's quality at entry.



- 10-
simultaneously ensuring a coordinated and efficient transfer of responsibilities and core
competencies. Second, ICBP's support for CSR and decentralization marked an important
evolution beyond the fiscal adjustment-inspired downsizing efforts of the late 1980s and early
1990s to longer term capacity building for improved service delivery. Through its design, the
project institutionalized the involvement of the Ministry of Local Government (MOLG)-
along with the traditional lead agencies, namely the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning (MFEP) and the Ministry of Public Service (MPS)-in shaping technocratic
responses to the politics of state transformation. As is discussed later in the ICR, this
arrangement paved the way for a more integrated framework to guide Uganda's public sector
reformns and donor-assisted efforts in this area.
* Participatory approach to design. The design of specific components, particularly the Local
Government Capacity Building Component, followed a highly participatory approach.
Ugandan counterparts were involved in all aspects of project processing including
participation in the Appraisal and active involvement in the preparation of the Yellow Cover
SAR, and participation in the Bank's Yellow Cover Review Meeting.
* Incoiporation of lessons fromn past experience. Project design was based on lessons learmed
from earlier projects in Uganda, namely the 1987 Technical Assistance Project, the 1992
Second Technical Assistance Project, and the 1993 Economic and Financial Management
Project (EFMP). The experience with these operations pointed to a more favorable risk-
reward ratio when (i) capacity building subprojects/interventions were targeted to areas
closely linked to ongoing reforms or upstream sector work relevant to future reforms; and (ii)
TA activities were designed to allow for maximum flexibility with vigorous supervision.
* Innovations in demand-driven, sustainable capacity buildin1g. In its initial design, ICBP
included several innovations that were incorporated into design, in ways that now provide the
basis for demand-driven, programmatic approaches to capacity building. These included
matching grant schemes to support in-service training in the public sector, along with pre-
qualification criteria for participating training suppliers; and a revolving fund to finance
procurement of vehicles by districts on a cost-recovery basis, with full repayment expected
within five years.
* Consideration of risks anid initigatiotn measures on CSR and decentrcalization. An underlying
assumption was that the focus of the CSR and decentralization agendas, including changes in
the constitutional and legal framework, would remain unchanged over the medium-term. In
addition, actions taken on CSR-while exogenous to the project-would continue, including
further rationalization of staff and ministries within a hard budget constraint, as well as a
medium-term wage enhancement strategy. As far as decentralization was concerned, the
project team acknowledged central government agencies would likely face increased
demands on their limited capacities in the short-run, however, the Government's political
commitment to empowering local governments was likely to be sustained.
In addition to linking support for the CSR and decentralization to benchmarks under the SAC
I, II, and HI operations, the ICBP project team incorporated additional risk mitigation
measures in project design. In recognition of the fact that the demands of democratic
decentralization were substantial and dynamic, the project made provisions greater flexibility
in leveraging timely expert assistance a wide variety of issues. In addition, staff involved
with the two of the largest components were chosen based on previous experience with the
Bank projects. It was agreed that the Bank staff would maintain close liaison through a multi-
disciplinary team which would be used to supervise the project and Resident Mission staff



- I 1 -
would also be involved in supervision on an as-needed basis at the request of the Bank or
GOU task managers for ICBP.
Clearly defined implementation arrangements. Implementation arrangements were designed
to meet the demands of an admittedly complex project, and reinforce the MFEP's strong
leadership role and convening power in consolidating the gains of fiscal adjustment while
supporting efforts to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the public sector.
Coordination and supervision of project components were the responsibility of the Project
Steering Committee (PSC), chaired by the Permnanent Secretary/Secretary to the Treasury.
The Bank requested that a senior level official in MEFP be designated as the GOU Task
Manager for the project. The GOU Task Manager chaired a Technical Committee (TC)-
accountable to the PSC and comprising all component coordinators-to support project
preparation and implementation. The Capacity Building Secretariat (CBS), with its project
administrator/coordinator, provided ongoing support for the TC in the implementation of all
but the Local Govemment Capacity Building Component.
Design dilemmas. Given the strengths in the design of the ICBP, the 1997 Mid-Term Review did
not recommend any change in objectives or restructuring of components. Nevertheless, the
following issues, described below, posed dilemrnmas for ICBP's design and should have been
given more thorough consideration during appraisal-(i) the added complexity of the Legal
Sector Reform and Accountancy Profession Components; (ii) the project team's assumptions vis-
a-vis implementation risks associated with these two components; (ii) lack of clear linkages
between the ministerial restructuring and ROM exercises under the Central Government
Component; and (iv) the degree of realism in planning project implementation.
First, the incorporation of the Legal Sector Reforn Component, and to a lesser extent, the
Accountancy Profession Component added to the complexity of ICBP. Yet, the specific capacity
building and institutional reform requirements of these components were distinct from those
related to public sector reform (that is, CSR and decentralization), and more appropriate to (and
consistent with) the objectives of the Private Sector Capacity Building Project, which was being
concurrently prepared with ICBP. More consideration should have been given to the inclusion of
both components in the Private Sector Capacity Building operations rather than ICBP.
Second, the ICBP team also appeared to underestimate the risks associated with the Legal Sector
Reform and Accountancy Profession Components at appraisal. The specific risks identified were
the lack of managerial capacity and the dispute between ICPAU and the Institute of Chartered
Secretaries and Administrators over membership rules. In both cases, the team relied on narrow
and short term indicators of ownership-namely, the implementation of salary enhancements for
lawyers and the passage of legislation establishing ICPAU with more restrictive membership
rules-and therefore made relatively strong assumptions about the risks associated with both
components. In hindsight, further consideration should have been given to the risks of investing
in capacity building the legal sector without a clear sector strategy, as well as the possibility that
ICPAU's legal disputes could easily resurface.
Third, while the project did seek to leverage complementarities between CSR and
decentralization, more thought should have been given to the design of the ministerial
restructuring process itself. Specifically, the restructuring should have been packaged in ways
that more effectively integrated the ROM exercise and annual budgeting process. Instead, ICBP
designed the restructuring and ROM as separate activities.



- 12 -
Fourth, the project preparation team underestimated the magnitude of certain tasks, particularly
those related to the roll-out of operating systems in all districts. The Project Implementation Plan
should have been less ambitious about the ability of beneficiaries within the newly created
districts to implement project activities.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcotme/achievement of objective:
The ICR rates the overall outcome as satisfactory because ICBP demonstrably achieved its
objectives of continuing civil service reforms, assisting the decentralization programs, and to a
lesser extent, strengthening the legal and accountability framework for the private and public
sectors. With regards to the civil service and decentralization programs, in particularly, ICBP
provide timely technocratic, institutional, and capacity building responses to a fast-evolving,
GOU-driven-albeit contentious-process of constitutional change and legislative reform
designed to radically reorder the state-society relations (figure 1). Under the sustained leadership
of a highly committed client, project outputs-such as review and restructuring of civil service
institutions and policies; formulation and review of options for the development of an
intergovernmental fiscal and administrative system; investments in the technical capacity (human
and physical) of central and local government-were effectively employed to give forrn,
substance, and structure to what were till then largely the political intentions of the NRM to
deepen democracy and improve service delivery in a decentralized framework.
ICBP's impact on the legal and accountability framework for the public and private sectors was
more modest. Capacity building support (primarily involving technical assistance and training)
for the legal sector and accountancy profession were not linked to a well-articulated set of sector-
wide strategic directives, reinforced by the same degree of political consensus and commitment as
decentralization. Other implementation hurdles involving MJCA and ICPAU limited the impact
primanly to training and setting standards relevant to the legal and accounting professions.
Taken as a whole, the project effectively advanced the Government's objectives of creating an
accountable local govemment tier responsible for the bulk of public management functions
related to poverty reduction, while making initial contributions to the development and
modernization of the legal and accounting professions. These achievements are discussed below:
Supported Continuation of Civil Service Reforms.    ICBP satisfactorily supported the
continuation of the civil service reforms including the transition from fiscal adjustment-led
rightsizing activities to longer term institutional development to improve efficiency and
effectiveness. Specifically, the successful restructuring of line ministries, the development of
merit-oriented personnel systems, and structured, bulk training-financed under Component 1
and described below-enabled the GOU, by late 1997, to continue modernizing its central
bureaucracy, while embedding across central ministries the institutional framework for a more
focused,fiscally sustainable "white collar" role.
A major achievement of ICBP was the rationalization of line ministries following the large scale
retrenchment exercises of the early 1990s and the redeployment of staff to local government after
the passage of the 1993 statute. Implemented under the leadership of an influential and reformist
Minister of Public Service, this 1996-7 restructuring exercise was significant in terms of the
trajectory of state transformnation for two reasons (figure 1).  The restructuring reviews
underpinning the rationalization were carried out within a hard budget constraint (requiring a
further reduction in the number of ministries from 21 to 17, and additional retrenchment of 1033



- 13 -
staff) as opposed to an earlier set of reviews in 1994-5 without an indicative resource envelope
(recommending a staffing increase of 30%). The 1996-97 restructuring provided an affordable
alternative to the 1994-95 reviews which would have in effect reversed progress made, under
Uganda's fiscal adjustment program, in controlling the size of the wage bill. Second, the 1996-7
restructuring aligned central government roles, functions and structures with the requirements of
the 1995 Constitution and the 1997 Local Govemments Act-that is, circumscribing ministerial
mandates to "white collar activities" such as policymaking, regulation, and coaching, while
transferring to local govemments the bulk of "blue collar" responsibilities related to service
delivery and program implementation.
A second achievement was the development of operating systems for personnel and civil service
management. Specifically, the use of standardized, merit-based criteria in the recruitment and
selection of public officers was enhanced with the introduction (and regular use) of a civil service
examination and related competency-based instruments. Other mechanisms for more effectively
managing human resources and other complementary inputs in civil service management were
institutionalized including a three-year training plan, a facilities and asset management, and a
records management system.
Underpinning these personnel management mechanisms, and a third important achievement of
the project, was support for bulk in-service training in areas such as financial and general
management, procurement, and computer literacy. Bulk training for nearly 5000 civil servants
(most of whom were central government employees) was financed on a matching or cost-
recovery basis in order to encourage proper planning in the area of human resource management.
Support was also structured to further the institutional priorities of specific ministries or agencies,
rather than the potentially idiosyncratic preferences of individual trainees.
Notwithstanding these achievements, the project was unable to deepen a results-oriented culture
across the civil service. While a National Service Delivery Survey was successfully financed to
establish a broad set of service delivery benchmarks, the project's support for the introduction of
Results-Oriented Management (ROM) techniques and methods in central ministries and districts
fell short of expectations. ROM failed to tangibly propel these central ministries or districts to
orient their operations towards outputs and outcomes primarily because the exercise was not
adequately embedded in the routine processes of government. Specifically, ROM was not
initially linked to annual budget and medium term planning processes, improvements in wages or
working conditions, or the strategic review process underpinning ministerial restructuring.
Assisted Government's Decentralization Program.    The project satisfactorily assisted
Uganda's decentralization program at a critical early stage, and demonstrated that the GOU (and
especially districts) could effectively utilize significant long term support for the development of
a viable and accountable local govemment tier. ICBP support for ongoing advisory services
related to fiscal decentralization, development of operating systems, compliance with the basic
public sector fiduciary obligations, investment in re-tooling and refurbishment, and bulk in-
service training helped design the architecture of intergovernmental relations and also make
demonstrable improvements in the productivity of districts. Taken together, these positive
achievements help ensure that decentralization emerged as a politically and technocratically
credible process, and therefore, one that would continue to drive state transformation.
Timely technical assistance (during preparation and following effectiveness) provided over the
1995-96 period helped initiate a process of formulation, implementation, and review-under the
tripartite institutional leadership of the MFEP, MOLG, and MPS-by which the Government
tested and institutionalized increasingly sophisticated fiscal instruments (such as block grants,



- 14 -
conditional sectoral grants, and eventually multi-sectoral capital grants) to further its dual
objectives of democratic decentralization and improved service delivery (see figure 1). Early on
significant execution responsibilities were transferred to districts, primarily through the
decentralization of recurrent expenditures through sector-specific conditional grants. Between
1995 and 1998, transfers to local governments increased 148% from Ushs. 118 billion in 1995-96
to Ushs. 291 billion in 1998-99.
Table 1: Transfers to Local Governments, 1995/6-1998/9 (Ushs millions)
Description                     1995/96   1996/97   1997/98  1998/99
Unconditional grants              40575    48718     51783     64388
Conditional grants                17935    37200     51150     83461
Conditional salaries              59244    90597    101484    143646
Unconditional as share of transfers  34%     28%      25%       22%
Total                            117755    176514   204417    291495
As % of total expenditures        11.1%    15.8%     16.8%     19.9%
Soutree. Backlgrouniid to the Budget. 1998
It is worth noting that as the share of total expenditure transferred to local governments increased
from 11.1% in 1995-96 to 19.9% in 1998-9, the degree of expenditure autonomy (share of
transfers that were unearmarked) decreased from 34% to 22%. This resulted from an increase
between 1995 and 2000 in the number of conditional grants to fifteen, each with separate and at
times idiosyncratic reporting requirements that burden capacity-strained local govemments. The
proliferation of conditional grants in Uganda is illustrative of a strategy on the part of sectoral
ministries to use the intergovernmental fiscal system in ways that "protect" expenditures in
priority areas (often at the expense of expenditure autonomy). Over the implementation of ICBP,
it became apparent that the establishment of an intergovernmental fiscal system did not
automatically guarantee expenditure autonomy for local government tiers.
Rather, the development of the local government fiscal system in Uganda like other countries was
heavily contested ground. In this regard, technical assistance under ICBP for "decentralizing the
development budget" between 1995 and 1996 was pivotal in identifying options for structuring
the flow of greater discretionary resources to districts to meet investment needs. This work
contributed to the identification of the Local Government Development Program (LGDP), which
provides multi-sectoral capital support to districts through the LGD grant. Two tranches of the
LGD grant have been coursed through the budgets of 25 out of 71 local governments, the first
totaling SDR 5.59 million in October 2000 and the second totaling SDR 12.36 million in July
2001. Over 80% of the funds provided for these development block grants have financed roads,
education, healthcare, water investments, while less than 20% has financed administration. In
summary, quality advice provided under ICBP supported the evolution of an intergovernmental
fiscal architecture that progressively balanced its goals of poverty reduction through service
delivery in health, education, and water with those of democratic decentralization through
expenditure autonomy and downward accountability.



- 15 -
Figure 1. Critical moments in state transformation in Uganda, 1992-2002
Trajectory of                                                                                        Legend
constitutional and                                                                                   Fiscal decentralization  Do
legislative reform                        Jul 94 -Oct 95                                             ConsiTutieonal/leal reform -
Dec 93          ConstitutionalCosiuonleglrfn
Local Government    reform process,                Mar97                        Bank opcrations
(Resistance Councils)  promulgation             Local Government
Statute passed                                  Act passed
Key technocraticl c                                                       _             4         + -
institutionaL capacit                            I     
buiding response                                 II\
Jul 95     May 96                               Jun 00             Jun 02
Block grants  UPE grant   Nov 96-Jun 97         15 conditional     New chart of
initiated   initiated  Role restructiring of  grants, 8 funded     accounts
central ministries       under PAF         proposed;
y           x     ~~~~~IFMIS
________________________  _____________   _______ _  J___________-~  I            !   architecture
designed
1992-97                                  Jun 98         Oct 00-Jul 01
Staff reduction from 320,000 to 147,000;              Poverty        Two tranches
and ten-fold average real wage increase             Action Fund      of LGD grant
established       released
1995-2001
Retooling and bulk in-service training
Evolution o1
Bank PoMolloI 
Bank92ortfolIo                Aug 95                     Nov 97             Jun 00         Mar02
EFMP effective                    ICBP effective               ICBP MTR            LGDP           LGDP
EFMP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fetv                                               MTRciv
Jan 02                         Nov 94                         Nov 94    Mar98              Feb 01       Jun 02
SAC I                         SAC II                          SAC il    LGDP               EFMP2        ICBP
effective                      effective                     effective   preparation       effective     closed



- 16 -
Even as ICBP helped evolve an intergovernmental fiscal system, it financed significant
investment in equipment, works, operating systems (including some IT- based solutions), and
bulk training to expand the productive capacities of district authorities to undertake records
management, accounting and auditing, payroll and personnel management, strategic planning,
and automation of work flow. In cases where staffing was inadequate, the project also financed
short term consultants to help close and audit local government accounts. This offered a
pragmatic approach to ensuring compliance with the basic fiduciary obligations of a functioning
local government system. The significance of this support was that it enabled districts-from the
early days of the constitutional and legislative reform process-to progressively build and
demonstrate their ability to handle some of the "nuts and bolts" of public management.
Moreover, it established for IDA and other donors a foundation for demand-driven and cost-
recovery approaches to bulk in-service training and asset management at the distnct level.
Strengthened Legal and Accountability Framework. ICBP support for strengthening the legal
framework for the pnvate and public sectors through the revision of laws, a new policy on legal
education, developing professional qualification, and training across legal and justice sector
institutions was timely and achieved moderately satisfactory outcomes. Unlike the CSR and
decentralization programs, the legal sector lacked the type of comprehensive and coherent
strategy-backed by a broad-based and committed constituency for private sector-friendly legal
reforms-necessary to effectively absorb a significant program of IDA support. Rather ICBP's
impact was more modest, assisting in strengthening certain aspects of the policy framework and
institutional capacity of the legal sector such as the review and adoption of a more liberal legal
education policy, revision of some commercial statutes, and training of MJCA staff as well as
members of the judiciary. Poor implementation capacity and managerial follow-through in the
MJCA meant that the component was ultimately underutilized.
Over time, this initial assistance did encourage a more intensive engagement by other donors. In
addition, the policy dialogue conducted during supervision with the Chief Justice and Solicitor
General contributed to important institutional innovations in the sector including the
establishment of a Commercial Court. Moreover, recommendations-expressed during the
MTR-for the GOU to develop a more coherent sector strategy led to the preparation of a sector-
wide approach or SWAP for the Commercial Justice Sector by 2000, and the incorporation of the
Government's medium-term plans for legal sector into the IDA-financed budget support
framework or the Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs).
The Credit was more effective in helping establish a basic institutional and regulatory framework
for the development of accounting profession including harmonization of Uganda's accounting
profession within institutional standards, the development of an indigenous testing or examination
regime, and registry of members. In spite of the Auditor General's embargo on ICPAU's use of
ICBP resources due to the Association's ongoing legal disputes, membership rolls and
registration of students grew significantly. Its examination system is now regularly administered
with close linkages to higher educational institutions including Makerere University.
4.2 Outputs by comnponents:
Most planned outputs-particularly those under the Central Government, Local Government, and
Training Components-were achieved efficiently and accounted for 72% of total disbursements
under ICBP. With the exception of the Accountancy Profession Component (which faced an
embargo on access to ICBP funds over the project's life), implementation was generally even
across components over the life of the project. When components did under-perform due to poor



- 17-
follow-through on certain activities, legal and administrative bottlenecks outside the control of
component coordinators, or non-performance by consultants, both the Borrower and the Bank
responded quickly to reallocate committed resources to other priority components. Lags in
certain activities under the Local Govemment and Legal Sector Components also required two
extensions in the closing date. These extensions were utilized effectively to complete outstanding
activities including the preparation of law reports under the Legal Sector Reform Component, the
Fiscal Management Study under the Local Govemment Component, and the Design of the
Records Center/National Archives. Furthermore, the presence of the Task Manager in the field
between August 1995 and August 1998 not only contributed to implementation of planned
activities, but also helped maintain close linkages between project outputs and Uganda's evolving
capacity building needs.
It is worth noting that certain activities such as some district civil works sub-projects and the
restocking of upcountry libraries were not completed in part because of difficulties in supervising
activities in remote area. These and other constraints such as weak contract supervision and
management led to the cancellation of approximately USD 0.6 million at project closing.
Finally, this ICR has been prepared prior to project closing. A review of procurement and
financial management performance will be prepared within six months of the 30th June, 2002
closing date. Recent audits of project financial statements have thus far not identified fiduciary
issues of particular concem. If needed, an update on physical implementation performance will
also be prepared within six months of the closing date.
Specific component-wise outputs achieved under the project are described below along with
actual disbursements (inclusive of physical and price contingencies):
A. Central Government Capacity Building Component (USD 5.43 million): The component
supported streamlining of the civil service through the rationalization of govemment structures in
21 ministries (including aligning them with the 1995 Constitution and 1997 Local Govemment
Act, within the available resource envelope) in 1996-97; further reduction in the number of
ministries to 17; and the placement of staff in new structures and management of retrenchment
packages (resulting in an additional reduction of 1033 staff). The main value-added of this
component was to institutionalize the policy, regulatory, and coaching roles of central ministries
in line with the constitutionally mandated transfer of service delivery responsibilities to districts.
Unlike the numerous cases of less successful role restructuring in other decentralizing states (for
example, Argentina and Chile), Uganda's 1996-97 restructuring exercise was facilitated by the
prior transfer of frontline workers (such as teachers, nursing assistants, and engineers) to districts,
the empowerment of District Service Commissions to manage these staff, and most important, the
leadership of a powerful Minister of Public Service committed to the stated goals of the
transformation process.  The component also financed the preparation and publication of
restructuring reviews for Constitutional Commissions and Makerere University administration.
Implementation of the latter remains an unfinished agenda.
The component also introduced modem personnel management practices as part of its support for
the operationalization of the Public Service Commission (PSC). In addition to helping to define
the PSC's roles and responsibilities in the recruitment, selection, and hiring of civil servants, the
component helped develop and implement a new civil service examination for new entrants as
well as a competence-based instrument for senior staff (for example, Pemmanent Secretaries,
Directors, Commissioners and Chief Administrative Officers) in 2001. As part of the larger effort
to strengthen personnel management at all levels of government, the component financed the
preparation of a Training Needs Assessment (TNA), followed by a public sector training policy



- 18-
and a three-year training plan in 1998, which provided the strategic framework within which the
Government provided bulk in-service training.
Several activities were also undertaken to improve civil service effectiveness including the
introduction of ROM techniques across ministries and districts, along with the preparation of
Annual Perfornance Plans by eight ministries. Computers were purchased for ten ministries to
facilitate ROM implementation. Despite these efforts, ROM did not directly contribute to
sectoral inputs to the annual budget or the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF)
processes. Nor were the output-oriented techniques in ROM developed early enough to be
incorporated into the 1996-97 role restructunng exercise.  Moreover, the MFEP sought to
introduce a similar methodology, under a separate Output-Oriented Budgeting exercise, in
parallel to MPS's ROM efforts. These risked duplication.
As part of the CSR's focus on improving effectiveness, the design and implementation of the
National Service Delivery Survey (NSDS}-which assessed household level access, utilization,
and satisfaction across sectors such as health, education, Justice, water and sanitation, and
agriculture-was successfully completed, albeit with delays. Additional efforts will be required
to use the NSDS findings for the purpose of policy review in the context of the annual budget,
MTEF, and PRSP processes.
Finally, a Facility Management Policy was developed and adopted by the MFEP under the
component. Also, the design of the Records Centre/Archive was completed and will provide the
basis for a construction of a modern facility for central ministries and local govemments to
consolidate archival infornation and establish GOU-wide procedures for effective records
management. Printing of MPS's Annual Report for 2001 was also financed.
The component's overall output performance is rated as satisfactory.
B. Local Government Capacity Building Component (USD 12.79 million): As the
constitutional and legal reformn process evolved through the mid-1990s, this component provided
timely support for analytical advice on intergovernmental relations to meet Government's
decentralization objectives in 1996. A study of options for decentralizing the development
budget and reviews of the institutional strengthening needs of new distncts significantly shaped
the design of the intergovernmental fiscal system including the assignment of revenue and
expenditure responsibilities and identification of administrative structures at the sub-national
level. Reflected in the 1997 Local Govemment Act, these developments in the design of
decentralization-and specifically, their marked departure from the more modest provisions of
the 1993 Local Government (Resistance Councils) Statute-are testament to the political
commitment of the Minister of Local Government and the technical response of key specialists of
the Decentralization Secretariat in the context of ICBP. In addition to the design of fiscal system,
the project also supported the training of GOU officials in intergovernmental finance. As part of
these broader efforts, a study of options for establishing a revolving development fund for
districts was initiated but later aborted due to non-performance by the consultants.
In parallel, the component contributed to the strengthening financial management systems and
practices at the local level in order to enable districts to meet the new fiduciary and administrative
responsibilities. Specifically, ICBP supported the preparation of final accounts and audits for
local governments (inter alia through outsourcing to private consultants); pilot computerization
of accounts and payroll management systems at the district level; installation of a decentralized
records management system (including the installation of and training in the TRIM records
management software across districts); implementation of a Millennium Bug project; training of



- 19 -
district personnel on the role of local government tender boards and public accounts committees;
and the completion of the Fiscal Management Systems (FMS) Study to provide the basis for the
design of the Govemment-wide Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS).
It is worth noting that problems of non-performance on the part of the consultant led to the
cancellation of the original FMS Study, financing of which was refunded to the Govemment. A
second round of procurement led to the selection of a consultant that satisfactorily completed the
study. A variety of outputs have been produced as part of this effort including an Inception
Report, Business Systems Architecture, Information Systems Architecture, Technology
Architecture, as well as the Functional and Technical Specifications. A Financial Classification
Report, reconmmending a new chart of accounts, was also prepared.  Related to budget
management were efforts under the Local Government Component to sensitize district officials n
ROM methodologies and techniques for planning. Concerns about the linkages between ROM,
budgeting processes, and restructuring were compounded by weaknesses in existing budget
systems and lack of knowledge of medium-terrm planning processes at the local level.
The component also financed the procurement of a wide array of goods and works as inputs to
retool district administrations, establish a reasonable level of physical infrastructure, and improve
working facilities in order to carry out basic functions. These included 188 personal computers,
131 laser and 132 dot-matrix printers, 182 uninterruptible power supply systems, 1590 back-up
tapes, 60 scanners; 8 solar systems; 1090 metallic storage shelves; 132 file cabinets; and several
other sundry items such as map cabinets, photocopiers, typewriters, safes, steel ladders, furniture,
calculators, and fire extinguishers. Works activities were undertaken to refurbish registries and
computer rooms in 48 local govemments under ten contracts. Most of these works subproject
were satisfactorily completed with the exception of four lots, which contractors abandoned (table
2). Alternative modalities were considered for selecting substitute contractor(s) to complete these
works, however, the project closed before these arrangements could be finalized.
A noteworthy innovation under this component was the establishment of the District Revolving
Transport Fund (DRTF), which enabled districts to cover the full cost of vehicles over a four to
five year repayment period. Forty-four local governments benefited from the scheme. After
several rounds of procurement, a total of 91 double cabin pick-ups, 14 small four-wheel drive
vehicles, and 178 motor vehicles were purchased by beneficiary districts on a cost-recovery basis.
By project closing, the management of the DRTF was successfully mainstreamed into the MOLG
under the Assistant Commissioner for District/Urban Administration. At the time of hand-over,
the DRTF collection account had a balance of Ushs. 647,667,899.
Table 2: Civil Works Activities Undertaken in Districts
Lot Sites                                                    Completion
A    Kotido, Moroto DA & MC                                   100%
B    Apac, Lira DA & MC, Soroti DA & MC, Kumi                 100%
C    Iganga, Tororo DA & MC, Pallisa, Mbale DA & MC, Kapchorwa  55% (Abandoned)
D    Jinja DA & MC, Mukono, Kamuli                            95% (Abandoned)
E    Mpigi, Masaka DA & MC, Rakai, Kalangala                  95% (Abandoned)
F    Kabale DA & MC, Mbarara DA & MC, Kisoro, Bushenyi       100%
G    Kasese, Bundibugyo, Fort Portal MC, Kabarole, Mubende, Ntungamo,  100%
Kibale, Rukungiri
H    Hoima, Masindi, Luwero, Kiboga                          100%
I    Gulu DA & MC, Kitgum                                    95% (Abandoned)
J    Nebbi, Arua DA & MC, Moyo                                100%



- 20 -
This first wave of significant IDA support for the development of core public management
systems and productive assets across the local government tier proved both timely and successful
in expanding capacities of districts to carry out an ever increasing array of responsibilities (for
example, in financial and personnel management). It soon became apparent that any sustainable
effort to deepen decentralization would require not only technical assistance for legal and policy
framework but also long term investment in the machinery of local government, including even
the basic infrastructure required to house district administration. Over the 1990s, these needs
were further magnified by the steady transfer of the expenditure responsibilities and workload to
districts as well as the creation of new jurisdictions required more sustainable. This logic,
initiated under ICBP, of enhancing the capacity of local government in line with the growth in
their public management responsibilities was scaled up under LGDP and EFMP2 (figure 1).
The ICR rates implementation and output performance for this component as satisfactory.
C. Legal Sector Reform Component (USD 9.84 million): Early progress was made under this
component including a review of Uganda's legal education system, which led to the adoption of a
new policy that allowed inter alia for the liberalization the Law Development Centre's
accreditation and participation program.  After the establishment of the Legal Education
Programme, in-country training offered by the Intemational Law Institute-Uganda (ILI) benefited
both private sector and public sector personnel on various legal aspects relevant to Uganda's
needs. These included courses in case management, magistrate and judicial training, and
computer courses for legal professionals. These activities contributed to the component's rapid
disbursement prior to the MTR in 1997.
A second set of activities financed under the component included the revision and reform of
Uganda's laws proceeded less rapidly. Specifically, the Uganda Law Reform Commission was
supported in identifying and revising commercial and customary laws, yet only fifteen of the 44
identified for reform by the consultants were revised and draft bills submitted. The Commission
also initiated a review of WTO-related legislation and finalized WTO Agreements
implementation legislation.
Third, the component financed strengthening of the Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs
primarily through local in-service training as well as longer term courses aboard in negotiations
and contracts; intemational legislative drafting; librarianship; technical assistance management;
law reporting; and peace building. Training activities also included participation in the IDLI
Development Lawyers Courses, a symposium on private investment and transnational arbitration,
and other workshops on international law. Under the component, several legal professionals and
personnel from the MJCA and judiciary took advantage of training opportunities at ILI. An
important innovation in the ILO training program was its in-country delivery-a requirement of
the competitive selection process. As a result of winning the contract under ICBP, ILI not only
provided world-class training to a larger number of Ugandans, but also established itself as a local
NGO in Kampala. It continues to offer training in Kampala on a cost-recovery basis, and attracts
trainees from neighboring East African countries as well.
Fourth, the component facilitated access to legal information by procuring and distributing case
laws and legal books to 29 stations throughout the country covering institutions such as MJCA,
Makerere University, Law Reform Commission, Law Department Center, and the Courts of
Judicature. The computer library program developed under this component has resulted in inter-
lending and exchange of library resources among participating stations. Increased access to laws
and case materials served as a cnrtical input to Uganda's precedence-based legal system.



- 21 -
Plans to improve service delivery and increase cost recovery for legal sector services through the
devolution and autonomization of the Administrator and Registrar Generals Departments from
the MJCA did not materialize. The cost implications of the proposed institutional arrangements
were considered excessive. The non-performnance of this component also reflects a failure to
involve the MFEP earlier on in the component.
While several the intended outputs primarily related to legal education and training were
achieved, implementation of other key activities such as the revision of commercial laws or the
reform of legal sector service delivery institutions lagged and were canceled. The ICR therefore
rates the performance of the component as moderately satisfactory.
D. Accountancy Profession Component (USD 0.44 million): Some activities funded under
this component were completed satisfactorily, however, following the resurging of legal disputes
involving ICPAU, remaining resources were reallocated to other components. Prior to the
embargo imposed on ICPAU by the Auditor General, the component helped procure equipment
and finance training activities to help ICPAU successfully launch its operations.
With this support, the Institute adopted International Accounting Standards and International
Standards on Auditing in 1998, introduced the Code of Conduct for Accountants as well as the
Value-Added Tax Accounting Standards, and established a library as well as a registry of
members. The Institute also successfully trained Examiners, Moderators and Markers for
professional and technician examination categones; conducted Continuing Professional
Development seminars, produced of quarterly accounting joumals, and benefited from a twinning
arrangement with a counterpart association in the UK. The Institute is now a member of the
International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) and the Eastem, Central, and Southem African
Federation of Accountants (ECSAFA). By project closure, ICPAU's membership had grown to
265; it had issued practicing certificates to 66 firms on an annual basis, and had 700 registered
students.  It is currently conducting examinations semiannually for both Certified Public
Accountants (CPA) and Accounting Technicians Certificate (ATC) and has started graduating
professional accountants. The Makerere Business School and Government institutions funded
under EFMP2 are supporting applicants in sitting for ICPAU's examinations and qualifying as
professional accountants.
Despite the exogenous factors such as legal bottlenecks that undermined implementation, ICPAU
utilized resources made effective use available under the original component and is therefore
rated as moderately satisfactory.
E. Training Funds Component (USD 9.53 million): The Training Funds Component (TFC)
supported skills development in a variety of private and public sector institutions on a demand-
driven, cost-sharing basis. On the demand-side, the Public and Private Sector Matching Grant
Fund (Fund I) supported several rounds of procurement for bulk in-service training contracts-
tendered competitively on a financial basis amongst a pool of 31 pre-qualified public and private
suppliers-over the 1998-2001 period. A total of 7013 private, public, and NGO personnel
received training offered through 290 courses in skill areas such as general management, finance
and accounting, IT, computing, and legal services at an average cost per trainee of USD 292.
Financing for these courses was provided on a matching basis-each beneficiary institution
contributed ten percent of the financial cost per trainee and leveraged the remaining ninety
percent from the Fund.2 Total Fund I contributions totaled nearly USD 2.05 million by of June
2  The costs of daily allowances were covered by beneficiary institutions.



- 22 -
2001.  By mid-2001, demand for Fund I resources-evidenced by receipts of matching
contributions from districts-outstripped the project's ability to finance additional rounds of
procurement. The consortia of beneficiary institutions that participated in Fund I included 26
local governments, 5 central government ministries and departments, 10 NGOs, and 4 private
sector organizations.
On the supply-side, the Training Supplier s Strengthening Matching Grant Fund (Fund II)
supported capacity building-also tendered on a competitive and matching basis-of supplier
institutions in skills areas that were critical to their successful participation in the emerging
market for in-service training (for example, Training of Trainers, consultancy services, tendering,
and contract management). Over the 1997-2001 period, 267 personnel from supplier institutions
were trained in 9 courses, at a total cost of USD 0.48 million and an average cost per trainee of
USD1 803.3
It is worth noting that significant upstream work was undertaken over the 1995-96 period before
the Training Funds were made effective. This included the preparation of implementation
manuals-undertaken in a participatory manner with relevant stakeholder groups-to guide the
operations of Funds I and II. Once the operational manuals were finalized, potential beneficiary
groups were sensitized and suppliers were invited to pre-qualify for participation in Fund I over
the 1996-97 period. Those suppliers that did not pre-quality for the first round of procurement
were provided, on a demand-driven basis, capacity building support. After nearly two years of
intensive preparatory work, the Funds were made effective in 1998.
The demand-driven, matching grant schemes under this component represent an important
innovation in the provision of capacity building support in countries undergoing rapid
institutional change. The rapid disbursement of both Funds is testament to the feasibility of such
schemes in both the public and private sectors. The ICR therefore rates the component's
performance as highly satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of returni:
NOT APPLICABLE
4.4 Financial rate of return:
NOT APPLICABLE
4.5 Institutional development inmpact:
In evaluating institutional development impact (IDI), the ICR attempted to assess the extent to
which the project enabled public management systems as well as individual entities (for example,
ministries, district governments, professional associations, legal education institutions, training
suppliers) to better utilize their human and financial resources, and physical assets; and also to
effectively coordinate and monitor efforts to improve institutional performance. The ICR rates
the IDI of the project as substantial given its contributions to the operational efficiency of a wide
of range of public and private institutions, and its development of the cross-cutting systems
necessary to improve the public sector enabling environment.
3  Fund II did not support strengthening of supply institutions between 1998 and 2002. This deliberate
hiatus was designed to allow "strengthened" training institutions to pre-qualify and competed under
Fund 1.



- 23 -
Human resource utilization
The project substantially improved the ability of public and pnrvate institutions to utilize their
human resources by supporting (i) the restructuring and staffing of ministries; (ii) the provision of
structured in-service and longer term training; (iii) the innovation of incentive mechanisms for
enhancing the supply response of indigenous training institutions; as well as (iv) the development of
standards-setting and other merit-based personnel systems at the central and local levels. These are
detailed below.
   As noted earlier, a major contribution to the project in terms of the utilization of human
resources was the 1996-97 restructuring of central ministries in accordance with the 1995
Constitution and 1997 Local Government Act. The exercise formally defined a "white collar"
role (policy, regulatory, and coaching) for central ministries as districts took on responsibilities
for program implementation and service delivery. Accordingly, the 1996-97 restructuring
formalized a major shift in the accountability relationships of frontline personnel from central
ministries to districts. Even after they were transferred to local govemments under the 1993
statute, frontline staff had been operating in a deconcentrated manner; the 1996-97 restructuring
confirmed that these personnel were in fact devolved and therefore responsible for meeting
local service delivery needs.
*   A substantial number of public sector (and to a lesser extent, pnvate sector) institutions at the
central and local levels upgraded their human resources through the financing provided under
the Training Funds Component and other components of ICBP. This type of bulk in-service
training, particularly in basic skills critical to public management (such as financial and general
management, personnel management, legal services, computing and IT management) served to
rapidly build up the skills base of Uganda's public institutions to carry out the increasingly
sophisticated functions required of modemizing bureaucracies. More specialized training (for
example, in intergovemmental finance, legislative oversight, or case management) ensured that
technical or managerial staff in central and local govemments institutions were equipped with
the necessary skills to satisfactorily support the Government's evolving civil service reform,
decentralization, financial management, and capacity building strategies.
Aside from deepening Uganda's skills base in strategic areas, ICBP ensured that IDA-financed
training was properly structured in three ways that strengthened the ability of beneficiary
institutions to effectively articulate demand over the long run. First, training needs were
assessed against agency- or ministry-wide objectives and functions (rather than the personal
needs of individual civil servants). Second, training needs were financed on a matching or cost
recovery basis, which necessarily required beneficiary institutions to budget and plan for the
human resource development needs of their staff. Third, training support was bundled into
sizeable contracts and opened to tender among pre-qualified firms to ensure that beneficiaries
receive higher quality knowledge services at more competitive prices.
* Incentive mechanisms were innovated under ICBP to strengthen the supply response of
indigenous training institutions to structured demand from public and private beneficiary
institutions (mentioned above). A key element of this approach was the pre-qualification of
private and public training institutions to participate in the demand-driven Fund I. This ensured
that only suppliers with a minimum level of capacity and quality could compete to provide bulk
in-service training, while those that failed to pre-qualify would receive capacity building
support to upgrade their facilities and skills. Taken together, a minimum basic service standard
for suppliers was introduced into Uganda's emerging training market. Such an approach not



- 24 -
only helped suppliers become acclimated to the workings of a competitive system, but also
represented a noteworthy entry point for private sector development in Uganda.
ICBP helped modemize the regulatory framework goveming professional certification and
personnel management in the public and private sectors. Specifically, testing regimes to govern
the certification of accounting professionals and technicians (through ICPAU) as well as merit-
based selection of civil servants (through the Public Service Commission) were established
under the project. Linkages between ICPAU and tertiary educational institutions such as
Makerere University are testament to the emerging credibility of the accounting examinations.
Similarly, efforts are underway to implement the civil service examinations to guide
recruitment of civil servants into the public service. Taken together, such measures are
contributing to improving the quality of human resources available in Uganda's private and
public sectors. An equally important yet elusive condition for sustained skills development is a
motivating wage and grading system within the civil service. Identified as a key factor for the
longer term impact of support under ICBP, the need for an affordable, medium-term wage
policy for the public sector remains a pnronrty for Uganda.
Financial resource utilization
The ICR rates the impact of ICBP on the ability of public and private institutions to better manage
their financial resources is rated as substantial. The IDI on financial resource utilization was
manifest in three ways-(i) the design of Uganda's intergovemmental fiscal and financial system;
(ii) the broadening and deepening of Uganda's skills base in financial management; (iii) the
introduction of managerial principles such as cost recovery and results-orientation. These are
discussed further below.
.  Technical assistance provided under ICBP helped define the "rules of the game" for
intergovemmental fiscal relations and contnbuted to the design of a range of fiscal instruments
to deepen democratic decentralization while achieving service delivery goals (for example,
block grants, sector-specific conditional grants, and multi-sectoral capital grants). In addition,
provisions for distncts to use private consultants to close and audit their accounts help ed
demonstrate the importance of meeting basic public sector fiduciary obligations, especially as a
prerequisite for increasing district level expenditure autonomy.
*  A sizeable number of trainees upgraded their skills in financial management, accounting, and
other areas related to public resource management. This type of bulk training was further
reinforced by efforts to establish standards (including establishment of a local professional
examination system and acceptance of ICPAU in regional and intemational accountancy
bodies) for Uganda's accounting professionals and technicians. Taken together, these efforts
enhanced the availability of personnel capable of contributing to the basic fiduciary
requirements of public and to a lesser extent private sector institutions.
  ICBP incorporated managerialist principles such as cost recovery and results-onented
management into its design. As discussed earlier, the Training Funds as well as the District
Revolving Transport Fund (DRTF) were successfully implemented largely on the basis of
demand-driven, cost recovery arrangements for the procurement of traming and vehicles. This
element of the funds provided an incentive to beneficiary institutions to systematically cost out,
contribute to, and budget for various recurrent and investment needs. The ROM exercises,
while initially carried out in parallel to the MTEF, has helped introduce a focus on effectiveness
into the budget process. As an interim measure of assessing the effectiveness of public sector
budgets, the National Service Delivery Survey also helped gauge the effectiveness of public



- 25 -
spending on access, utilization, and satisfaction across a variety basic service sectors (for
example, health, education, water, justice).
Asset management
Institutional arrangements or procedures for prudent asset management were established under the
project. The DRTF not only structured the purchase of vehicles across districts, but also provided
an incentive for them-through its vehicle loan repayment scheme-to budget for and maintain
these assets. Equally important was the development of a Assets and Facilities Management Policy
under the Credit, which required inter alia the maintenance of a proper inventory of assets by GOU
ministries, departments, and local governments.
Coordination
ICBP's success in establishing durable coordination mechanisms across central ministries and tiers
of government-especially between MFEP, MOLG, and MPS-was cn'tical in supporting the
formulation, implementation, and review of the GOU's decentralization program. At the Mid-Term
Review, the need for these lead agencies to also develop a view of the linkages between
decentralization and CSR was widely acknowledged. In response, the Govemment initiated the
development of its Public Service Reform Programme (PSRP), which sought to harmnonize the
CSR, decentralization program, and public financial management reforn. An inter-ministerial
steering committee was established to provide guidance on these various initiatives and to inform
donors on the Government's rapidly evolving institutional reform strategy.
Despite these notable developments in the GOU's overall coordination framework, emerging
challenges at the district level became apparent over the course of ICBP implementation. For
instance, plans to automate local government payroll and financial management systems under the
Local Government Component were stalled due to difficulties in clarifying GOU policies and
procedures on the purchase of hardware and software packages to ensure compatibility between
various systems installed within districts and central govemment ministries. These difficulties at
times have been magnified by donor agencies that continue to finance geographically delimited,
self-standing IT-based solutions to meet the immediate processing needs of specific districts.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Three factors outside the control of govemment and the implementing agency for ICBP affected
project implementation and outcomes-(i) non-performance of consultants and contractors; (ii)
legal disputes related to membership in ICPAU; and (iii) transaction costs imposed by changes in
IDA procurement procedures.
The non-performance of consultants and contractors (both international and local) did cause
delays in implementation, at times involving significant commitments under the project.
Even in cases where consultants did deliver the required outputs, GOU counterparts had to
expend strenuous efforts in contract management and supervision. A more systematic review
of contract management across the Uganda portfolio may be required to identify possible
portfolio-wide measures that could reduce the risks of moral hazard on the part of vendors,
particularly those hired to provide services of significant worth.
As mentioned before, the resumption of legal disputes over ICPAU's membership rules and
their implications for the status of chartered secretaries and administrators resulted in an
embargo on the Institute. It was therefore unable to utilize approximately a third of its



- 26 -
committed resources. The risks associated with a possible legal challenge to ICPAU were
explicitly considered during appraisal.
* Implementation was at times hampered by changes in IDA's procedural requirements for
project documentation. Specifically, IDA's standard bidding documents for goods and civil
works as well as the Letters of Invitation for consultancies were modified, however, no
training was provided to GOU counterparts in the new requirements.  As a result,
procurement activities were delayed as bid evaluations took considerably longer than
expected.
5.2 Factors generally subject to governiment control:
The efficacy of ICBP depended in large part on factors endogenous to the Government's
institutional and policy reform agenda as well as its project management capabilities.
Specifically, implementation was affected by (i) the rapidly evolving (often unpredictable)
politics of decentralization; (ii) policies concerning the involvement of civil servants on donor-
financed projects; as well as (iii) sustained political commitment to project objectives and the
managerial capability to ensure efficient implementation. These institutional, policy, and project-
specific factors are described in greater detail below.
Broad political consensus and commitment to democratic decentralization was at the heart of
Uganda's constitutional and legal reform process, and therefore, central to the efficiency of
support provided under ICBP. Closely related to the NRM Government's support for
decentralization was its sustained commitment to other public management reforms including
a hard budget constraint on the wage bill, ministerial restructuring, the introduction of
medium-term expenditure planning, and related financial management reforms. Equally
important was the strong leadership of GOU Task Manager(s) for ICB in MFEP and their
activist role in coordinating activities across components, ensuring timely implementation,
and reallocating resources towards priority or better performing activities.
It is also worth noting that the constitutional reform processes unleashed new and often
unpredictable political pressures including the drive to create new districts. This proliferation
in the number of distncts-from 20 to 56 over the life of the project-presented ever-
growing capacity building challenges for the Government and severely stretched the available
resources and personnel under the ICBP.
*  The standard practice immediately preceding ICBP effectiveness involving compensating
civil servants-though salary supplements, sitting allowances, or hinng of civil servants as
consultants-for supporting certain donor-assisted project activities.  During the 1995
Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR), the Bank and GOU agreed that these types
of compensatory measures would be phased out as of July 1996 and civil servants would no
longer be hired as consultants. This  change in GOU policy-combined with the
Government's delay in implementing a revised salary structure-adversely affected the
morale of middle-level civil servants, particularly those working on the Central Government
Component. Implementation of the component lagged early on since the design placed a
premium on the role of civil servants.
*  Notwithstanding these generally favorable conditions, project activities were hindered by
inadequate and irregular counterpart funding from the GOU. For instance, supervision of the
installation of goods under the re-tooling sub-component of the Local Government
Component as well as the implementation of the constitutional commission consultancy



- 27 -
under the Central Government Component could not be conducted in time due to the absence
of counterpart resources. Other administrative bottlenecks and coordination problems were
also evident. For instance, despite a reallocation of resources to the Legal Sector Reform
Component at project extension, delays in the preparation of law reports resulted from the
failure of the Govemment's Editorial Board to meet and grant its approval.
In addition, poor coordination between ministries (specifically, the MOLG, MFEP, MPS)
with regards to the purchase and installation of automated financial and payroll management
packages initially showed cause for concem. As noted earlier, issues of compatibility and
systems integration were raised when various IT-based solutions were procured for districts
and sectoral ministries even as plans for Govemment-wide automation exercises were being
finalized. More intensive efforts to ensure that provisions for systems integration-including
halting the roll out of the NAVISION (financial management) and HRD2000 (payroll
management) packages across districts-were undertaken near project closing. However, a
more robust framework that allows for the acquisition and use of compatible IT
applications-in line Government-wide priorities as well as the specific (often urgent) needs
of districts-will be an enduring concern.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementiltg agency control:
The key factors subject to the control of the Capacity Building and Decentralization
Secretariats-the two implementing agencies-were (i) compliance with project management and
fiduciary requirements, including those related to procurement; (ii) coordination between various
beneficiary institutions; (iii) contract management and supervision, and (iv) monitoring and
reporting on implementation progress. The effectiveness of both implementation agencies
satisfactorily fulfilling the above-mentioned functions dependent in large part on their familiarity
with IDA rules and regulations. Despite early delays, training of key personnel rapidly promoted
implementation progress through the mid-term review and eventually project closing.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total cost of the project was USD38.68 million compared with the estimate, at appraisal, of
USD 38.27 million. IDA's contribution to the project equaled USD 32.1 million in disbursements
with USD 0.74 million of uncommitted funds remaining as at June 25, 2002. The final disbursed
and undisbursed amounts will be supplied after the application deadline on October 31, 2002.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Project outputs were hamnonized with the Government's evolving reform agenda in the areas of
civil service reform, decentralization, and private sector development. Sustained, high level
commitment (to ICBP and the larger reform agenda) ensured that the flow of capacity building
benefits would continue to be intemalized into the GOU's policy framework, budget processes,
and day-to-day operations in the foreseeable future. These benefits include (i) policy and
institutional reforms governing central-local relations, (ii) acquisition of durable assets and
operating systems that make up the basic machinery of local govemment, (iii) agency-wide, in-
service training of public servants, and (iv) establishment of innovative institutional arrangements
to channel the demand and supply side of capacity building. The sustainability of these benefits
as well as the ICR's rating of highly likely are explained in greater detail below.



- 28 -
ICBP's support for capacity building helped provide a timely and robust technocratic and
capacity building response to Uganda's constitutional reform processes, and thereby
contributed to two critical developments in the mid- to late- 1 990s-(i) the 1996-97
restructuring that institutionalized the "white collar" role of central ministnes, and (ii) the
development of the intergovemmental fiscal system including these use of a wide range of
transfer instruments and the decentralization of the development budget. Recent efforts
(under LGDP, EFMP2, and the PRSCs) to help streamline the grant system, strengthen local
revenue perfonnance, and increase expenditure autonomy suggest that initial institutional and
policy reforms supported under ICBP have been sufficiently locked-in and therefore, not
likely to be reversed. The trajectory of institutional change in Uganda continues to follow the
logic and spirit of the constitutional and legislative reforms of the mid-1990s.
ICBP benefits included the acquisition of durable assets and operating systems that make up
the basic machinery of local government. For instance, field visits confirmed that several-
although not all-districts have managed to use the TRIM records management software
(including the computers and related hardware) as their primary tool for maintaining
personnel, financial management, and other types of records. Similarly, efforts to roll out
ROM to ministries and districts, and more recently, to ensure that ROM techniques are
employed during the pnediu,n-terrn planning and annual budgeting cycles, bode well for its
resilience as a management tool. The examination systems developed for ICPAU, and to a
lesser extent for the civil service, have also gained recognition (particularly within tertiary
educational institutions and among their students) as important stepping stones to
professional careers in financial management and the civil service respectively.
* The project's support for bulk in-service training ensured that skills development under the
project served broader agency or district-wide priorities as opposed to the purely individual
priorities of trainees. As a result, ministries, departments, and districts have been able to
utilize newly skilled staff in basic day-to-day activities. In the future, improvements in civil
service wages will be necessary to ensure that this type of bulk training does not precipitate
further migration of talent from the public sector.
Third, innovative approaches to structunng the demand for training as well as the supply
response of indigenous training institutions have been firmly embedded in the private and
public sectors in Uganda, and provide a firm foundation on which to scale up demand-driven
approaches to capacity building. Specifically, the Training Fund and DRTF helped establish,
as a basic principle of capacity building in Uganda, the need to structure the demand for
training (i) around institutional priorities (a ministry's or a district's) rather than those of
individual beneficiaries, and (ii) on a matching or cost-recovery basis, i.e., in line with a
beneficiary institution's willingness to pay.  This approach created an incentive for
beneficiary institutions to focus their capacity building activities, cost them as part of their
annual budget preparation process, and demonstrate that they received value for their
investment in such activities. More important, the basic notion of a quid pro quo-providing
capacity building support in exchange for prior actions that strategically focus institutional
development efforts-has been mainstreamed in various GOU operations.
New rules of the game for ensuring quality and competition in the supply of training has also
been strengthened as a result of ICBP. The practice of tendering bundled training contracts
among pre-qualified suppliers has become an expectation on the part of the various consortia
of suppliers that seek to provide training services to Uganda's central ministries and districts.
Furthermore, linkages between such suppliers, professional bodies, and Government



- 29 -
institutions bode well for the transfer of knowledge and development of skills standards on an
ongoing basis, particularly in areas critical to decentralization, financial management, and
civil service reform.
One of the externalities of the project was to set the stage for a sophisticated and ongoing
dialogue on public sector and institutional reform issues that could be supported within a multi-
year serial budget support framework through Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs). In
addition to its direct impact on the design of the LGFP and EFMP2 operations (descnbed above),
ICBP's innovative demand-driven, cost-recovery approach to training also provided the basis for
further learning-by-doing and innovation under the Decentralized Service Delivery (Makerere
University Training) Pilot and the Capacity and Performance Enhancement Program (CAPEP).
CAPEP is envisaged as a multi-sectoral capacity building platform, integrated into the annual
budget and medium-termn planning processes, and designed to support the development of
working systems, improvements in organizational effectiveness, and skills development, and
thereby facilitate the institutional reform and performance improvement benchmarks in PRSCs.
6.2 Trantsitioni arrangemenits to regular operations:
The Govemment has taken a variety of steps-at the strategic and operational levels-to build
on and, in some cases, mainstream the technical assistance and capacity building support
provided under ICBP.
At the strategic or policy level, the Government's Public Service Reform Programme (PSRP) was
launched to harmonize civil service reform and decentralization efforts. As noted earlier, the
PSRP Steering Committee helped the Government monitoring and harmonize efforts to further
CSR, decentralization, and financial management reforms; it also served as a mechanism to
coordinate donor efforts to assist these programs. Other inter-ministerial and GOU-donor
mechanisms were establish to facilitate coordination over various aspects of the rapidly evolving
reforn and capacity building programs. These included a joint GOU-donor group on
decentralization, a SWAP for commercial justice sector; series of inter-ministerial committees
and working groups have been formed on discrete issues such as payroll management, fiscal
decentralization, capacity building, and CSR. Other mechanisms for monitoring progress on
institutional reforms include the annual Public Expenditure Reviews, which are increasingly
focused on local government performance.
Most recently, the Inter-ministerial Working Group for the PRSCs helped bring together key
control and sectoral ministries (such as MFEP, MPS, MOLG, MOH, MOE) and donors (such as
the Bank, DfID, USAID, EU, DANIDA, CIDA, Ireland Aid) to help jointly identify, prioritize,
and support various institutional reform and capacity building initiatives. Also, near project
closing, the Government has undertaken a new round of National Capacity Building Workshops
to identify the needs of "second generation" capacity building efforts. The CBS has provided
follow up support to the Capacity Building Working Group and will likely serve as a Capacity
Building Focal Point, tasked with coordinating programmatized support from donors.
At the operational level, mainstreaming was one of the design principles underpinning ICBP.
Component coordinators were not housed in parallel unit but were already part of Government
agencies (such as MPS, MOLG, MJCA, or MFEP) or relevant private institutions (such as
ICPAU). During implementation, policy changes such as the phasing out of consultant fees for
civil servants served to reinforce the overall objective of enhancing the durability of public
institutions under ICBP. Furthermore, DTRF was recently integrated into the regular operations



- 30 -
of the MOLG. Similarly, as mentioned above, the modalities for capacity building innovated
under the Training Funds Component are been modified and scaled up in the context of CAPEP.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
During the early 1990s, the Bank worked closely with the Government to diagnose the constraints
on civil service reform, decentralization, and the legal and accountability framework of the
private and public sectors. IDA also helped the GOU develop strategies in each of these areas as
well as longer term capacity building. Preparation of ICBP was done in a participatory manner
and closely linked to Government policies and programs such as the CSR, decentralization, the
Technical Assistance Policy, and the Uganda Capacity Building Plan. At appraisal, the Bank
team had ensured that the objectives and design-especially of the more innovative mechanisms
for capacity building-were clearly defined and owned by the Government. The Bank also
explicitly considcred the risks associated with ICBP, including those related to legal disputes over
ICPAU membership rules, and identified appropriate risk mitigation measures.
The main concerns with the Bank's performance during lending were two-fold. First, the
inclusion of the Legal Sector Reform and Accountancy Profession Components added
considerably to the complexity of the project as well as the difficulties in managing the associated
risks. In hindsight, these components should have been designed as a separate project focused on
strengthening the legal and accountability framework for private sector development. Second, the
design and sequencing of CSR-related activities within the Central Govemment Component was
not defined clearly enough to fully leverage economies of scope. For example, the ROM exercise
should have been more tightly integrated with the annual budgeting and ministerial restructuring
processes to ensure a more direct impact on frontline deliver performance.
The overall performance of the Bank during lending is rated as satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank took a firm and dynamic role in the supervision of the project implementation. Over
the six years of project implementation, there were 15 supervision missions, about 2.5 missions
per year. At different time, supervision teams comprised experts with a wide arrange of skills
including Public Sector Specialists, Financial Analysts, Urban Economists, and Legal Counsels.
Aide-Memoires were regularly prepared and transmitted, which alerted the Govemment to
problems with project execution and suggested remedies, in conformity with Bank procedures.
The Form 590s and PSRs realistically rated various aspects of performance.  Significant
provisions were made for ongoing monitoring and evaluation of project activities (such as the
impact assessment of the Training Funds Components and activities under the Local Government
Components). Over the course of implementation, the Bank proved adaptive to the evolving
institutional reform priorities of Government, periodically approving reallocations of committed
resources towards high performing components.
The presence of the Bank's Task Manager in the World Bank Country Office in Kampala during
supervision was found to be critical in identifying implementation issues early on in the project's
life; clarifying for counterparts IDA's expectations regarding procurement, disbursement and
project management; ensuring that project outputs were closely aligned with the needs of



- 31 -
Uganda's evolving reform programs; and finally, giving the Bank an appreciation of the ever-
changing dynamics and needs of large scale institutional change in the public sector. The
decentralization of task management responsibilities to the field also enabled the Bank to
appropriately stagger supervision by technical specialists to fit the normal work flow patterns of
the GOU. The Task Manager also attended periodic review meetings and respond faster to those
matters which required immediate attention. A close working relationship emerged between the
GOU and the Bank including on issues of policy, legislation, and reform strategy. Accordingly,
the policy content of GOU-Bank interactions on ICBP implementation was unusually high. Near
project closing, however, repeated changes in Bank Task Managers showed cause for concern.
In light of this decentralized and adaptive approach to implementation, Bank performance during
supervision is rated as satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The benefits of the Bank's innovative approach to design as well as its highly client-oriented
approach to project implementation outweighed the relatively minor problems associated with
project complexity at entry and high turnover of Task Managers near closing. Lending and
supervision activities under ICBP offer useful examples of good practice both in terms of the
specifics of design and process. The ICR rates overall Bank performance as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
As noted earlier, the Government's commitment to the process of state transformation and
associated constitutional and legal reforms was remarkable. In particular, this was evident during
the success of the 1996-97 ministerial restructuring exercise, as well as the development of the
intergovemmental fiscal system over the life of the project. The GOU effectively used the
Bank's assistance to harmonize its approach to CSR, decentralization, and capacity building.
Strong leadership on the part of GOU Task Manager(s) of ICBP in the MFEP, the Minister of
Public Service during the mid-1990s, and various component coordinators allowed the
Government to effectively design a workable set of project implementation arrangements.
Despite its strong leadership during design, the GOU could have been more selective in terms of
the inclusion of the Legal Sector Reform and Accountancy Profession Components in ICBP. It
could have done more to highlight the risks associated with these activities including the
relatively low level of managerial capacity in the MJCA as well as the likely resumption of
ICPAU's legal disputes.
On the whole, however, ICR rates Borrower performance during preparation as satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
As noted earlier, the Government provided strong management of the project imnplementation
process. Activities were closely monitoring and supervised, and the GOU Task Manager was
quick to identify opportunities to reallocate resources to higher return activities. Component
coordinators also met both the operational and fiduciary requirements of ICBP implementation.
Regular reporting on implementation progress including emerging problem areas facilitated
troubleshooting by the GOU and Bank Task Managers. Equally important was the learning-by-



- 32 -
doing that took place on the part of GOU counterparts particularly in terms of contract
management, procurement, as well as innovative modalities for capacity building.
It should be noted that the project did experience implementation delays in part due to poor
follow through near closing, particularly under the Legal Sector Reform Component. These
delays led to the extension of the project life by eighteen months, which was eventually utilized
to good effect.
Despite uneven progress across components, the ICR rates the Borrower's implementation
performance as satisfactory because of generally strong leadership by the GOU Task Manager,
compliance with IDA fiduciary and project management requirements, and an adaptive and
learning by doing approach to implementation, particularly under the Local Government, Central
Govemment, and Training Funds Components of the project.
7. 6 Itnplemenitig Agentcy:
The two implementation agencies-the Capacity Building and Decentralization Secretanrats-
generally played supportive roles in project management and coordination. The Capacity
Building Secretariat (CBS), which served as the primary implementing agency, largely fulfilled
its fiduciary and managenal responsibilities. Regular quarterly reports on all project activities
provided a rich informnation base for supervision as well as monitoring and evaluation. Close
monitoring and troubleshooting also enabled the GOU Task Manager to identify opportunities for
realizing efficiency gains by reallocating resources. Despite its strong performnance, the CBS
experienced difficulties certain activities-notably the Legal Sector Reform Component-due to
lack of adequate follow through by the relevant beneficiary institutions.
The Decentralization Secretariat effectively managed activities across several districts under the
Local Government Component. While the basic project management and fiduciary requirements
were met in a timely manner over the life of the project, the Secretariat was challenged in terns
of contract management (for example, in monitoring the initial consultants for the FMS Study as
well as contractors on the civil works activities in the districts) as well as coordination with other
key ministries (for example, with MFEP and MPS in the procurement of IT-based solutions for
financial and payroll management within districts).
The ICR rates implementation agency performnance as satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
High level commitment and activist management by the GOU Task Manager, coupled with a
strong technical level response from most components, contributed to ICBP's efficiency and
effectiveness in driving Uganda's multifaceted institutional reform agenda. The ICR rates overall
Borrower performance as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
* In countries undergoing rapid state transformation, operations seeking to respond with
comprehensive institutional reform and capacity building support are more likely to be
effective if they are designed to allow flexibility (for example, in terms of reallocation) and
are linked to a clearly defined strategicframework. ICBP was the forerunner for more recent
efforts (for example, Tanzania's Public Service Reform Programme, Ethiopia's National
Capacity Building Programme, and Uganda's CAPEP) to support comprehensive public



- 33 -
sector capacity building programs covering budgeting and administrative reform and
decentralization in an integrated manner. The success of this type of integrated approach
depends not only on sustained political consensus and commitment, but a robust well-
articulated strategic framework that can capitalize on flexibly designed technical assistance
and capacity building support.
During these periods of rapid state transformation, strategically focused capacity building
operations-conmplemented by serial budget support operations-can pave the way for
increasingly sophisticated forms of support including demand-driven, performance-based
capacity building andfiscal support operations. The Bank's success helping to structure the
rapidly evolving decentralization agenda resulted not only from ICBP but also a series of
complementary balance of payment support operations (that is, SAC I, III, and III). This in
turn allowed for increasingly sophisticated operations that seek to improve the financial
management capacity of local government (for example, EFMP2), while simultaneously
providing performance-based fiscal support-and thereby enhance expenditure autonomy-
to local authorities (for example, LGDP).
* In-set-vice training for civil servants is most effective when carried out on an agency-wide,
demand-driven, cost-recovery, competitive basis. Historically, entrepreneurial individuals in
developing countries have been able to seek out training opportunities financed by donors.
However, these training activities tend not to be aligned with the broader performance
objectives of public institutions. Moreover, their cost efficiency and quality tend to vary.
The advantages of demand-driven, matching grant schemes (such as the ones financed under
the Training Funds Component) are three-fold. The schemes encourage govemment
agencies to assess the strategic training and capacity building requirements for the agency as
a whole rather than simply the needs of individuals; (ii) introduce service standards by
requiring the pre-qualification of suppliers, and (iii) reduce unit costs by promoting
competition between pre-qualified suppliers on a financial basis.
*  In the initial stages of developing newly created local authorities, investments in basic
infrastructures, equipment, and vehicles can help meet the start up costs associated with local
governance. Even at an early stage in the decentralization process, Uganda's district
govemments demanded support for re-tooling (including the procurement of vehicles,
buildings, generators, and equipment). In addition to effectively articulating these demands
and utilizing the assistance provided under ICBP, the newly created local authorities, in many
cases, were able to build their capabilities to exercise their autonomy and undertake the basic
functional of public management.
*  Decentralization of task management is an effective means of responding to highly committed
clients with rapidly evolving reform and capacity building programs. In posting the Task
Manager to the field during preparation and implementation, the Bank was much better
placed to respond to myriad needs of the client. Specifically, decentralized task management
allowed for closer linkages between project activities and the evolving reforms; staggering
supervision by technical specialists in line with GOU workflow patterns; and closer
supervision and monitoring of project activities. These decentralized arrangements also
enabled the Bank to provide frank and sound analytical advice in real time.
*  The design of multi-sectoral operations to support national capacity building plans require
both focus to ensure coherence and streamlined design to facilitate rapid implementation.
The requirements for efficient capacity building are quite distinct for the private and public



- 34 -
sectors. Attempts to collapse these distinct forms of support into one operation (as in the case
ICBP) adds significantly to project complexity and associated nrsks. Even when the focus of
support is coherent and mutually reinforcing (for example, civil service reform and
decentralization), there is a need to ensure flexible financing and implementation
arrangements, preferably those that disburse funds against robust strategic plans or prior
institutional reform actions (for example, the Training Funds). In other words, more
traditional projectized design does not offer the client sufficient flexibility to manage the
exigencies and contingencies associated with large scale institutional change.
9. Partner Comments
(a) BorrowerAimplenieniting agency:
The Government provided a completion report on the achievements of ICBP, drawing on detailed
inputs from each component. The report has been archived in the project files. In addition,
component coordinators and other stakeholders provided feedback to the Bank during the ICR
mission. The main comments raised were as follows:
*  ICBP largely achieved its objectives in an efficient and satisfactory manner, particularly in
terms supporting the continuation of civil service reforms, deepening decentralization,
strengthening the legal and accountability framework, and supporting demand-driven
training. The project provided the basis for ongoing institutional reform and capacity
building efforts supported under PRSCs and the proposed CAPEP respectively.
*  The Govemment's comprehensive reform and capacity building agenda benefited from a
flexible approach to implementation. The Bank demonstrated pragmatism and adaptability in
supporting periodic reallocation of resources to priority activities, advising the Government
on various aspects of project management, and ensuring that project outputs were aligned
with the reform program.
*  The presence of the Bank's Task Manager in Kampala during supervision greatly facilitated
this flexible and adaptable approach, and allowed for more informal interactions at the early
stages of project implementation. This proved useful for the Govemment, and particularly
project staff, who had limited expenence working Bank operations of this size and scale. As
the project neared completion, the Bank re-centralized task management responsibilities.
Subsequently, high turnover of task managers, particularly near project closing and dunng the
period of extension, contributed to implementation delays.
*  Early in the project's life, the Bank expected too much in terms of knowledge of procurement
and other fiduciary requirements from component coordinators and project staff. This
contributed to initial delays, however, training and advice from the Task Manager on IDA
rules and regulations later facilitated implementation.
*  The original project implementation targets were overly ambitious.  The Project
Implementation Plan should have been more realistic, given the limited capacities on the
ground (for example, in certain central ministries and districts).
(b) Co-financiers: NOT AVAILABLE
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector): NOT APPLICABLE



- 35 -
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                          Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Continuation of Civil Service   *   Government ministries rationalized within hard budget
Reforn Program                         constraint, in line with 1995 Constitution and 1997 Local
Government Act, and circumscribing role to 'white collar"
activities of policymaking, regulation, and coaching
*   Personnel and civil service management systems
strengthened (including recruitment and evaluation)
*   Skills developed for civil servants in post
2. Assistance to Decentralization  *   Intergovermnental fiscal system (consisting of conditional,
Program                                unconditional, and equalization grants) defined including
increase in transfers by 148% over 1995-98 period
*   Physical infrastructure, asset accumulation, and
development of operating systems (for basic records
management, accounting, and personnel management
functions) strengthened
*   Skills developed for local level public servants
3. Strengthening Legal and         *   Policy on legal education adopted and implemented
Accountability Framework           *   Skills of MJCA and judiciary staff upgraded
*   ICPAU membership grown to 265, issuance of practicing
certification to 66 fums, and registration of 700 students
*   Development of local professional accounting qualification
and exarnining capability in ICPAU
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                          Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Central Government Capacity     *   1996-97 restructuring of 21 ministries including reduction
Building                              in mninistries to 17, redeployment of staff, retrenchment of
1033 additional staff, and management of retrenchment
packages
*   Preparation and publication of restructuring reviews
*   Consultancy to support operationalization of PSC including
defining its roles and functions
*   Development of new civil service examination for new
entrants and competence-based instrument for senior staff
*   Preparation of Training Needs Assessment, training policy,
and three-year training plan
*   Introduction of ROM techniques through workshops across
central ministries including preparation of Annual
Perfornnance Plans by 8 ministries
*   National Service Delivery Survey implemented and
published
*   Facilities and Asset Management Policy developed,
adopted and iniplemented
*   Design of Records Centre/Archive completed



- 36 -
Annex I (continued)
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                           Actual/Latest Estimate
2. Local Government Capacity       *   Preparation of diagnostic studies to define intergovernmental
Building                               fiscal system and decentralize the development budget
* Training related to intergovernmental finance system
conducted
*   Preparation of final local govemment accounts and audits
*   Pilot computenzation of payroll and financial management
systems at district level
*   Installation of records management system across districts
*   Implementation of Millennium Bug project
*   Training of district officials in local government tender
boards and public accounts committees
*   Completion of FMS Study
*   Sensitization workshops for district officials in ROM
methodologies and techniques for planning
*   Re-tooling of districts including 188 personal computers, 131
laser and 132 dot-matrix printers, 60 scanners, 8 solar
systems, 1090 metallic storage shelves, 132 file cabmets, and
several other sundry items such as photocopiers, typewriters,
safes, steel ladders, furniture, calculators, and fire
extinguishers
*   Establishment and implementation of District Revolving
Transport Fund (DRTF) for purchase of 91 double cabin
pick-ups, 14 small four-wheel drive vehicles, and 178 motor
vehicles by 44 local governments on a cost-recovery basis
3. Legal Sector Reform             *   Review of legal education systems and policy
*   Liberalization of Law Development Centre's accreditation
and certification program
*   Establishment of Legal Education Programme
*   Revision a d submussion of only 15 out of 44 commercial and
customary laws identified for reform
*   Institutional strengthening of MJCA through short and long
term training of staff inter alia through Uganda-ILI
*   Procurement of law books to increase access to case materials
in 29 stations to strengthen common law system
4. Accountancy Profession          *   Intemational Accounting/Auditing Standards adopted in 1998
*   Code of Conduct for Accountants and Value-Added Tax
Accounting Standards introduced
*   Library and registry of members introduced
*   Training of examiners, moderators, and markets for
professional and technician examination categories conducted
*   Continuing Professional Development seminars conducted
*   ICPAU Membership in Intemational Federation of
Accountants as well as Eastem, Central, and Southern
African Federation of Accountants (ECSAFA)



- 37 -
Annex I (continued)
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                           Actual/Latest Estimate
5. Training Funds                  *   Bulk in-service training conducted on a competitive, cost-
recovery basis for nearly 7000 private and public sector
personnel from 45 different beneficiary organizations
*   Skills upgrading provided in a competitive and matching
basis for 267 personnel in supply institutions



- 38 -
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component
(in US$ million equivalent)
'Appraisal :ActuaLatest      Percentage,of
Estimate       Estimate       Appraisa
Project Cost By Component
Central Government Capacity Building              6.62            5.43            82%
Local Government Capacity Building               14.72           12.79            87%
Legal Sector Reform                               8.24            9.84           119%
Accountancy Strengthening                         0.98            0.65            66%
Training Funds                                    7.02            9.53           136%
PPF                                               0.50            0.44
SPFF                                              0.19
TOTAL BASELINE COST                   38.27           38.68
Contingencies                                    3.92
Total-Project Costs'              42.19'          38.68 '      '_-','_:,';,
TotalFinancing Required                 42.19.     '    38.68    . -
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Appraisal Estimate
(US$ million equivalent)
_____.______,__..._                    Procurement Netlhod
Expenditre            ICB           NCB        OTHER 2.'        N. B.F. TB otl Ct-
'Cat'egory , .  ,   .  .   .  ,   ,  .    ,.
1. Works                  1.41           1.37          0.00          0.00         2.78
(1.22)         (1.18)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (2.40)
2. Goods                  9.67          0.55           0.24          0.00         10.46
(9.20)         (0.55)        (0.24)        (0.00)        (9.99)
3. Services               0.00          0.00          24.06          0.00         24.06
(0.00)         (0.00)       (24.06)        (0.00)       (24.06)
4. Printing               0.00          0.66           0.74          0.00          1.40
(0.00)         (0.33)        (0.37)        (0.00)        (0.70)
5. Operating Costs        0.00          0.00           3.49         (0.00)         3.49
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.83)        (0.00)        (0.83)
Total           ~~~~~~11.08     2.58          28.53          0.0          42.19
ii'  : (10.42)  (2.06)      ~~~~25.26)     (0.00)(398
1/  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/  Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing
the project, and (n) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.



- 39 -
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurtement Method
Ex'penditure,   '     "C"I             N           OTHE' ;,,NT.                    o '  tal Cost
..Category    _' :_.;                ..               .._,               .
1. Works                    0.00           0.42            0.00           0.00          0.42
(0.00)          (0.38)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.38)
2. Goods                    7.01           0.46            2.86           0.00          10.33
(7.01)          (0.41)         (2.57)         (0.00)        (10.00)
3. Services                 0.00           0.00           23.98           0.00          23.98
(0.00)          (0.00)        (22.17)         (0.00)        (22.17)
4. Printing                 0.00           0.12            0.04           0.00          0.16
(0.00)          (0.06)         (0.02)         (0.00)         (0.08)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00           0.00            3.79          (0.00)          3.79
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.76)         (0.00)         (0.76)
Total                    7.01            1.00          30.67           0.00          38.68
.  ' ''  ' ''(7.01j ' -(0.85)  (25.52)    ____ (0.00)       (33.38)
I/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



- 40 -
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
NOT APPLICABLE



- 41 -
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions.J
Stage of Project Cycle                                                   Performance Ratingp
Implemenlation  De,.elopment
'Month/Year    .       -Count              Specialty   'Progress           .   Ob.jective'
Identification/Preparation
04/1994             1        Task Team Leader
I        Public Sector Mgt. Specialist
I        Training Specialist
I        Financial Specialist
Appraisal
06/1997             1        Task Team Leader
2         Institutional Specialist
2         Legal Specialists
I        Training Specialist
I        Financial Specialist
I        Procurement Specialist
I        Financial Management Spec.
Negotiation
12/1994             1        Task Team Leader
I        Legal Counsel
I        Disbursement Officer
I        Procurement Specialist
I        Financial Specialist
Supervision
11/1995             1        Task Team Leader                 HS             HS
I        Sr. Urban Economist
I        Info. System Specialist
I        PSM Specialist
I        Acctg. Education
.Specialist
05/1996             1        Task Team Leader                  HS            HS
I        Legal Counsel
I        Acctg. Education Specialist
02/1997             1        Task Team Leader                  S              S
I        Sr. Urban Economist
06/1997             1        Task Team Leader                  S              S
1        Sr. Urban Economist
09/1997             1        Task Team Leader                  S              S
I        Sr. Urban Econornist
2        Public Sector Mgt. Specialist
1        Legal Counsel
11/1998             1        Task Team Leader                  S              S
03/1999             1        Task Team Leader                  S              S
1        Sr. Urban Economist
06/1999             1        Task Team Leader                  S              S
4   Period missions by Legal Counsel and other legal specialists to supervise the Legal Sector Reform
Component were periodic, although not always financed under ICBP's supervision budget. These are
therefore not fully captured in the table.



- 42 -
Stage ofProjectCycle                                                         Performance Raling
.,Imp,le' eentio   evlopment
Month/:Year:' '         Count               Specialty .:  . "      Proress     -Objective
12/1999              I        Task Team Leader                    S              S
02/2000              1        Task Team Leader                    S              S
Procurement Specialist
10/2000              1        Task Team Leader                    S              S
.  I     Legal Counsel
02/2001              1         Task Team Leader                   S              S
05/2001              1         Task Team Leader                   S              S
11/2001              I        Task Team Leader                    S              S
ICR
05/2002              1         Task Team Leader                   S              S
I________ _  1Operations Specialist
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL-Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU-Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
(h) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                       . Actual/Latest Estimate.
No. Staff weeks          US$
Identification/Preparation                                20                 130,333
Appraisal/Negotiation                                      34                225,444
Supervision                                                85                553,042
ICR                                                        10                 36,634
Total                                                     149                945,454



- 43 -
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro Policies                           NA
Sector Policies                          SU
Physical                                 M
Financial                                SU
Institutional Development                SU
Environmental                            NA
Social
Poverty Reduction                 NA
Gender                            NA
Other (Please specify)            NA
Private sector development               M
Public sector managemenit                SU
Other (Legal Sector Refonn)              M



- 44 -
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Htghly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                           Rating
Lending                                          S
Suipervision                                     S
Overall                                          S
6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating
Preparation                                      S
Government implementation performnance           S
Implementation agency performance                S
Overall                                          S



- 45 -
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Government of Uganda
* Government of Uganda Capacity Building Plan, 1994
* Government of Uganda Technical Assistance Policy 1993
*   Constitution of Uganda, 1995.
*   Civil Service Reform Action Program and Quarterly Updates
* Local Government (Resistance Councils) Statute, 1993.
*   Local Government Act, 1997.
*   Public Service Reform Programme, 1998.
*   Fiscal Decentralization Policy in Uganda. Draft Strategy Paper, 2002.
*   Uganda: Assessment of Public Expenditure Programs 1996/7-1997/8 Prepared for the Consultative
Group Meeting, Paris, November 1997.
*   Comnmercial Justice Sector Reform Program, Sector-Wide Approach Document, 2000.
*   Minutes and correspondences from Donor Meeting on Public Service Reform Programme (PSRP)
World Bank
*   Assessment of Capacity Building Activities in the IDA Portfolio in Uganda. World Bank Country
Office, Kampala, Uganda, 12/98.
*   Bevan, David. The Budget and Medium-Term Expenditure Framewvork in Uganda. Africa Region
Working Paper Series, Number 24, December 2001.
*   Uganda: Country Assistance Strategy Document, No. 14460, 9/5/1995.
*   Uganda: Country Assistance Strategy Document, No. 16540, 4/30/1997.
*   Uganda: Country Assistance Strategy Document, No. 20886, 12/18/2000.
*   Uganda: Country Assistance Evaluation, No. 22551, 5/31/2001.
*   Third Structural Adjustment Credit Project. Report and Reconmmendation of the Managing Director,
No. P7097, 5/1/1997.
*   Uganda-Economic and Financial Management Project. Memorandum and Recommendation of the
President, No. P5633, 7/13/1992.
*   Uganda-Second Economic and Financial Management Project. Project Appraisal Document, No.
19843, 11/3/1999.
*   Uganda-Local Government Development Program Project. Project Appraisal Document, No. 19745,
10/28/1999.
*   Uganda-Local Government Development Program Project. Mid-Term Review Report, 18 February-9
March 2002.
*   Uganda-Poverty Reduction Support Credit. President's Report, No. P7442, 3/20/2001.
*   Uganda-Decentralized Service Delivery (Makerere University Training) Pilot. Project Appraisal
Document, No. 23762, 3/l/2002.Review of Public Service Reform Programme, 2001.
Proiect Documents
*   Institutional Capacity Building Project, Staff Appraisal Report, No. 13610, 5/9/1995.
*   Institutional Capacity Building Project, Mid-term Review, 9/24/1997.
*   Institutional Capacity Building Project, GOU Completion Report, 2002.
*   Training Funds Component: Impact Assessment, 1/21/2000.



- 46 -
Proiect Documents (continued)
* All quarterly reports on implementation progress from the Capacity Building Secretariat.
* All relevant project Supervision Reports with aide-memoires and back-to-office reports.
* All relevant internal correspondences.
* All relevant correspondences between IDA and the Government of Uganda.
* All progress reports submnitted by the Capacity Building Secretariat.
Other
*   Langseth P., J. Katorobo, E. Brett, and J. Munene, eds. Uganda - Landrmarks in Rebuilding a Nation
Kampala: Fountain Publishers, 1995.
*   Nsibambi, A. Decentralization and Civil Society in Uganda. The Quest for Good Governance
Kampala: Fountain Publishers, 1998.
*   Bahl, R. and J. Linn. Urban Puiblic Finance in Developing Countries. A World Bank Book. New
York: Oxford University Press, 1992.






IMAGING
Report No.:        24359
Type:     ICR



