Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                      CREDIT NUMBER 2736 UG
                        Development Credit Agreement
                  (Institutional Capacity Building Project)
                                   between
                           THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             Dated June 9, 1995
                                                      CREDIT NUMBER 2736 UG
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 9, 1995, between THE REPUBLIC OF
UGANDA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) The Association has received a letter dated
January 24, 1995 from the Borrower describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to establish greater
indigenous institutional and human capacity to develop and
implement public policy and support the growth of the private
sector (hereinafter called the Program) and declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
      (B)   the Borrower, having committed itself to the
execution of the Program, and as part of the Program having
undertaken to carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (C)   the Borrower has contracted from Danish International
Development Assistance (DANIDA) a grant (the DANIDA Grant) in
an amount equivalent to $4,300,000 to assist in financing the
Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
DANIDA Grant Agreement) entered into between the Borrower and
DANIDA on March 16, 1994; and
      (D)   Part D of the Project will be carried out by the
Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Uganda (ICPAU)
Page  2
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to ICPAU a portion of the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and
in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and ICPAU;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "MFEP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning;
      (b)   "MJCA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Justice and
Constitutional Affairs;
      (c)   "MLG" means the Borrower's Ministry of Local
Government;
      (d)   "MPS" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Service;
      (e)   "CBS" means the Capacity Building Secretariat within
MFEP;
      (f)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated June 8, 1994 and June
17, 1994 between the Borrower and the Association;
      (g)   "Special Project Preparation Advance" means the
project preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated November 7, 1990,
November 29, 1990, January 3, 1991, March 30, 1992, April 6,
1992 and May 15, 1992 between the Borrower and the Bank;
      (h)   "Special Account" means each of the accounts referred
to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (i)   "ICPAU" means Institute of Certified Public
Accountants of Uganda established under the Accountants Statute
of 1992;
      (j)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Institute of Certified Public Accountants of
Uganda (ICPAU), of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (k)   "Project Accounts" means the accounts to be opened and
maintained pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
      (l)   "Implementation Manual" means the comprehensive manual
for the implementation of all components of the Project referred
to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
Page  3
      (m)   "Local Government Statute" means the Borrower's Local
Government (Resistance Councils) Statute of 1993;
      (n)   "Accountants' Statute" means the Borrower's
Accountants Statute of 1992;
      (o)   "Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into by the Borrower and ICPAU pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (p)   "Policy on Legal Education" means the Borrower's
policy statement on legal education in Uganda referred to in
paragraph 8 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty five million Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 25,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars two special deposit accounts
(Special Account "A" for Parts A, C, D and E of the Project and
Special Account "B" for Part B of the Project) in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against setoff, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance and the
Special Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as
of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days (60) after the date of this Agreement (the accrual
date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled;
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding
the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
Page  4
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of
that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing September 1, 2005 and ending March 1, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 1,
2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of
the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring
the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have
been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all
of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment
of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under
the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly,
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
            (i)    shall carry out Parts A, B, C and E of the
                   Project through MPS, MLG, MJCA and MFEP,
                   respectively with due diligence and efficiency
                   and in conformity with appropriate
                   administrative and financial practices and shall
                   provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
Page  5
                   facilities, services and other resources
                   required for such Parts of the Project; and
            (ii)   without limitation or restriction upon any of
                   its other obligations under the Development
                   Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause ICPAU
                   to perform all its obligations set forth in the
                   Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be
                   taken all action, including the provision of
                   funds, facilities, services and other resources,
                   necessary or appropriate to enable ICPAU to
                   perform such obligations, and shall not take or
                   permit to be taken any action which would
                   prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) make available on a
grant basis to ICPAU the proceeds of the Credit required for the
carrying out of Part D of the Project, under an agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ICPAU which shall have
been approved by the Association, and (ii) open and maintain
four Project accounts in a commercial bank into which it shall,
after depositing the amounts referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of
this Agreement, further deposit on a monthly basis, the amounts
to be provided by the Borrower out of its own resources for the
carrying out of Parts A, B, C and E of the Project,
respectively.
      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
Parts A, B, C and E of the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for Parts A, B, C and E of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of Part D of the Project shall be
carried out by ICPAU pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall, within eighteen
months after the Effectiveness Date but in any event not later
than December 31, 1996 conduct, jointly with the Association and
ICPAU a comprehensive review of the Project. Without limitation
upon the generality of the foregoing, the review shall, inter
alia, cover the implementation and management aspects of the
Project, implementation procedures, progress made in the
carrying out of the Project including the performance and use of
technical assistance personnel, the role of national counterpart
staff, the status and results of training, reporting, accounting
and audit performance, disbursement procedures and the overall
sustainability of the Project.
      (b)   Not later than thirty (30) days prior to the review
referred to in (a) above, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, a report in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of
the progress achieved in implementing the various components of
the Project, and a draft plan containing proposals for remedying
any identified deficiencies.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, promptly thereafter, (i) prepare
Page  6
an action plan satisfactory to the Association based on the
recommendations stemming from the aforementioned review, and
(ii) adopt and implement such plan for the remainder of the
Project period.
      Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, for sustaining the
activities initiated under the Project;
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking
into account the Association's comments thereon.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, consolidated records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A, B,
C and E of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   (including a comprehensive financial and
                   operational audit), as the Association shall
                   have reasonably requested; and
           (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain, or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Accounts was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
Page  7
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof will be carried
out.
      (b)   ICPAU shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
ICPAU will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
      (d)   The Accountants' Statute shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of ICPAU to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (e)   The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of ICPAU or for the suspension of its
operations.
      (f)   The Local Government Statute has been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the implementation of Part B of the
Project.
      (g)   The Borrower's right to withdraw the proceeds of the
DANIDA Grant shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the DANIDA Grant
Agreement; provided, however, that the provisions of this
paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that the suspension,
cancellation or termination is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the DANIDA
Grant Agreement and that adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified namely
that any event specified in paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
Page  8
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has deposited the Uganda Shillings
equivalent of $50,000 into the Project Accounts; and
      (b)   the Borrower has finalized and furnished to the
Association: (i) a satisfactory Implementation Manual; and (ii)
action plans for the carrying out of all Project components,
other than Part D of the Project, during the first year of
Project implementation.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by ICPAU, and is legally
binding upon ICPAU in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                 Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Borrower's Minister responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            P.O. Box 8147
            Kampala
            Uganda
            Cable address:                       Telex:
                   FINSEC                          61170
                   Kampala
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                       Telex:
                   INDEVAS                         248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
                                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                                   197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                         THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
Page  9
                         By /s/ Ahmed Ssenyomo
                                                  Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                    Regional Vice President
                                                                     Africa
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Part A of the Project
(1) (a)  Works                 690,000           90%
    (b)  Goods                 900,000           100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
    (c)  Consultants'        2,150,000           100% of foreign
         services and                            expenditures and
         training                                95% of local
                                                 expenditures
    (d)  Printing              120,000           50%
    (e)  (i) Project staff      80,000           20%
             operating costs
        (ii) Other operating    50,000          20%
             costs
Part B of the Project
(2) (a) Works               1,120,000           90%
    (b)  Goods              2,960,000           100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures
    (c)  Consultants'       4,510,000           100% of foreign
         services and                           expenditures and
         training                               95% of local
                                                expenditures
    (d)  (i) Project staff     40,000           20%
             operating costs
        (ii) Other operating   30,000           20%
             costs
Part C of the Project
Page  10
(3) (a) For Part C(1), C(2)
        and C(3) of the Project
        (i) Goods           1,310,000          100% of foreign
                                               expenditures and
                                               90% of local
                                               expenditures
       (ii) Consultants'    2,610,000          100% of foreign
            services and                       expenditures and
            training                           95% of local
                                               expenditures
      (iii) Printing          260,000          50%
      (iv)  Project staff      50,000          20%
            operating
            costs
       (v)  Other operating   100,000          20%
            costs
     (b) For Part C(4)(a)
         of the Project
         (i) Goods            250,000         100% of foreign
                                              expenditures and
                                              90% of local
                                              expenditures
        (ii) Consultants'     125,000         100% of foreign
             services and                     expenditures and
             training                         95% of local
                                              expenditures
     (c) For Part C(4)(b)
         of the Project
         (i) Goods            120,000         100% of foreign
                                              expenditures and
                                              90% of local
                                              expenditures
        (ii) Consultants'     275,000         100% of foreign
             services and                     expenditures and
             training                         95% of local
                                              expenditures
Part D of the Project
(4)  (a)     Goods            50,000          100% of foreign
                                              expenditures and
                                              90% of local
                                              expenditures
     (b) Consultants'        540,000          100% of foreign
         services and                         expenditures and
         training                             95% of local
                                              expenditures
     (c) Printing             20,000          50%
     (d) Other operating      20,000          20%
         costs
Part E of the Project
(5)  (a) for Part E(1)
         of the Project:
         (i) Public Sector 1,650,000          90%
Page  11
             Training
        (ii) Private Sector  340,000          50%
             Training
     (b) for Part E(2) of
         the Project:
         (i) for training    160,000          50%
             materials
             and books
        (ii) Equipment        40,000          25%
       (iii) Consultants'    240,000          90%
             services and
             training
     (c) for Part E(3) of
         the Project:
         Consultants'      1,800,000          100%
         services and
         training
     (d) (i) Project staff    20,000          20%
             operating costs
        (ii) other operating  40,000          20%
             costs
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6)  Refunding of             340,000            Amounts due
     Project                                     pursuant to
     Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                     of this Agreement
(7)  Refunding of             130,000            Amounts due
     Special Project                             pursuant to
     Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                     of this Agreement
(8)  Unallocated            1,860,000
                           __________
     TOTAL                 25,000,000
                           ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the terms "Project staff operating costs" and "other
operating costs" mean, respectively, recurrent expenditures
incurred for: (i) Project staff incremental salaries and
allowances; and (ii) office supplies, office communications
services, minor office equipment, utilities, fuel, maintenance
and insurance of vehicles used for the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
Page  12
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
      (b)   expenditures under Category (3) (a), (3) (b) and
 (3) (c) unless the Borrower has furnished to the Association
its Policy on Legal Education;
      (c)   expenditures under Category (5) (a) and (5) (b) unless
CBS staff have demonstrated capability to implement the Training
Funds component in Part E of the Project through: (i)
participation in the preparation and implementation of at least
two rounds of training under Part A or Part B of the Project;
(ii) their satisfactory management of at least one round of
training under Part C or Part D of the Project; and (iii)
detailed guidelines of the Implementation Manual pertaining to
the implementation of the Training Funds component in Part E of
the Project have been reviewed and, if warranted by the review,
amended in light of experience;
      (d)   expenditures under Category (3) (b) unless the
Borrower furnishes to the Association the business plan referred
to in paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement covering at
least the first three years of operation of MJCA's Department of
the Administrator General and Public Trustee;
      (e)   expenditures under Category (3) (c) unless the
Borrower furnishes to the Association the business plan referred
to in paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement covering at
least the first three years of operation of MJCA's Department of
the Registrar General;
      (f)   expenditures under Category (4) unless:
            (i)     ICPAU has duly appointed its Secretary;
            (ii)    the Council of ICPAU has furnished to the
                    Association a business plan covering at least
                    the first three years of operation; and
            (iii)   the Borrower and ICPAU have concluded the
                    Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure:
      (a)   for expenditures for works and goods contracts not
exceeding $50,000 equivalent;
      (b)   for expenditures for services under consultant
contracts not exceeding: (i) $50,000 equivalent for consulting
firms, and (ii) $30,000 equivalent for individuals; under such
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.
5.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
such expenditures and under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to establish greater
indigenous institutional and human capacity to develop and
implement public policy and support the growth of the private
sector through: (a) support for the continuation of civil
service reform, (b) assistance to the Borrower's efforts to
decentralize to local governments, and (c) strengthening of the
legal and financial accountability framework and institutions
and implementation skills.
Page  13
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Central Government Capacity Building
1.    Continued support to the Borrower's ongoing Civil Service
Reform Program through the carrying out of: (a) restructuring
plans for various ministries, (b) systematic classification of
personnel and (c) improvements to the central personnel
management system.
2.    Strengthening central personnel management and service
delivery through the introduction of results oriented management
and a performance recognition system.
3.    Developing capabilities for facility, physical assets
management and records management within the Central Government,
through studies and the provision of training.
Part B:     Local Government Capacity Building
      Strengthening financial, personnel and records management
structures, systems and procedures at the local government level
through training, technical assistance, acquisition of
equipment, vehicles and furniture, the carrying out of minor
civil works and the preparation of accounts.
Part C:     Legal Sector Reform
      Strengthening the legal framework for private sector
development through: (1) the consolidation of gazetted laws, the
compilation and printing of court decisions and the
implementation of a law reform program, (2) strengthening MJCA,
the judiciary and other major institutions in the legal sector,
through the provision of technical assistance, training and
acquisition of equipment, (3) support for legal education
through improvements and development of new curricula and local
training institutions, and (4) the carrying out of pilot cost-
recovery improvement programs in MJCA's Departments of: (a) the
Administrator General and Public Trustee, and (b) the Registrar
General.
Part D:     Accountancy Profession
      Strengthening the accountancy profession through support
for: (a) the development of ICPAU, including the provision of
technical assistance, training and equipment; (b) the
establishment of a local professional qualification and
examination capability, and (c) the introduction of local
accounting and auditing standards.
Part E:     Training Funds
1.    Establishment and operation of a fund to finance public and
private sector staff training in implementation skills,
including management, computing, financial, accounting and legal
skills.
2.    Establishment and operation of a fund to finance: (a) the
strengthening and upgrading of skills of trainers and staff in
selected training institutions, and (b) the provision of
training materials and equipment.
3.    Training of public sector staff to assist the Borrower in
implementing its economic recovery program.
                                    * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
Page  14
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Association's prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1(a) of this
Section, the Association's prior approval will be required for:
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period
of extension exceeds sixty (60) days, and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance
with this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for
the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.    Goods procured under international competitive bidding
procedures will not be subject to price verification under
preshipment inspection.
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items, or groups of items, of: (a) vehicles, equipment,
furniture, and (b) printing of publications, estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $550,000 and $660,000,
respectively, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or less per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$1,370,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Items, or groups of items, of: (a) goods and (b) printing
of publications estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$240,000 and $740,000, respectively, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Page  15
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant
to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower and ICPAU in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ, and cause ICPAU to
employ, consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the ConsultantGuidelines). For complex, 
time-based assignments, the Borrower
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard
form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $30,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Association
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment
of consulting firms raising the contract value to $50,000
equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $30,000 equivalent or above.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
Page  16
                           Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall, take all measures necessary to
establish, not later than sixty days after the Effective Date,
a Project Steering Committee (PSC) which shall be responsible
for overall coordination and supervision of all Project
components. PSC shall be chaired by the Permanent
Secretary/Secretary to the Treasury in MFEP and comprise the
Permanent Secretary of MLG, the Permanent Secretary/Solicitor
General of MJCA, the Secretary to the Administrative Reform
Commission and the President of ICPAU.
2.    The Borrower shall continue to maintain a technical
committee, which shall report to PSC, to be responsible for
Project administration and to be chaired by the Borrower's
Project Task Manager, and whose members shall comprise the
managers of each component of the Project. CBS shall provide
full support to the technical committee.
3.    The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) a Project Task Manager,
whose qualifications shall at all times be satisfactory to the
Association, shall be appointed and retained until the
completion of Project implementation; and (b) MPS, MLG, MJCA and
MFEP will carry out Parts A, B, C and E of the Project,
respectively, and that duly qualified managers for each
component are appointed and maintained until the completion of
Project implementation. CBS shall be responsible for carrying
out Part E of the Project.
4.    The Borrower shall ensure that Project implementation is
carried out in accordance with a comprehensive Project
implementation manual, satisfactory to the Association, which
shall include, for all Project components: (a) the specific
tasks to be carried out including, terms of reference, items to
be procured and training needs, (b) procurement, consultancy and
training procedures to be followed, (c) a breakdown of cost
estimates, (d) implementation timetables, and (e) formats for
quarterly and annual work plans and programs.
5.    The Borrower shall ensure that each component manager
appointed pursuant to paragraph 3 above prepares action plans
for the implementation of the relevant Project component. The
action plans shall be periodically refined and, with effect from
the second year of Project implementation, furnished to the
Association in the form of annual work plans (including training
plans) not later than the first day of April of the year
preceding the financial year covered in the work plan.
6.    In the carrying out of Part A of the Project the Borrower
shall take all measures necessary to:
      (a)   implement a system for the annual measurement of its
outputs and service delivery commencing from July 1, 1996;
      (b)   implement a revised salary structure commencing from
July 1, 1996;
      (c)   issue and implement a Code of Conduct for all Civil
Servants by July 1, 1996 and thereafter periodically monitor its
implementation;
      (d)   introduce results oriented management into its
budgeting procedures for use from the 1996/97 budget cycle; and
      (e)   introduce a facility management policy into its
budgeting procedures for use from the 1997/98 budget cycle.
7.    In the carrying out of Part B of the Project the Borrower
shall take all measures necessary to:
      (a)   cause the preparation and auditing of local government
accounts within the six-month time limit prescribed in the Local
Page  17
Government Statute: (i) for twenty seven districts commencing on
March 1, 1996; and (ii) for all districts commencing on March 1,
1997;
      (b)   computerize payrolls at the local government level by
June 1, 1997: (i) through the consolidated processing of
payrolls of all District Administration staff and staff formerly
employed by the Central Government by Uganda Computer Services,
on behalf of the districts, by July 1, 1995, and (ii) through
decentralized processing of payrolls by the districts themselves
commencing on July 1, 1996;
      (c)   carry out a study of the decentralization of the
development budget to be completed by June 1, 1996 and the
implementation of the decentralization of the development budget
to commence in a phased manner by July 1, 1997;
      (d)   complete a study to determine the establishment of a
district development fund by June 1, 1996 and the Borrower's
position statement on the findings of the study by December 1,
1996;
      (e)   commence the operations of a vehicle loan scheme for
local governments by January 1, 1996;
      (f)   implement an annual measurement of local governments'
outputs and service delivery commencing from July 1, 1996; and
      (g)   introduce results oriented management into local
government budgeting procedures for use from the 1996/97 budget
cycle in a phased manner commencing with the first districts
which have undergone financial decentralization.
8.    In the carrying out of Part C of the Project the Borrower
shall take all measures necessary to: (a) carry out a study with
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association for a
comprehensive review of the current policy on legal education
and, based on the recommendations of the study, adopt a
satisfactory policy on legal education;
      (b)   furnish to the Association, for its review and
comments, a prioritized list of those laws identified for reform
during the period of Project implementation and thereafter
prepare the necessary draft laws, publish them in the form of
bills and submit the bills, for the legislature's consideration,
by not later than July 1, 1996; and
      (c)   compile and print court decisions in the form of law
reports and ensure that the backlog of law reports is completed
by not later than June 30, 1998.
9.    In the carrying out of Part C (4) (a) and (b) of the
Project, the Borrower shall by July 31, 1996, (a) take all
measures necessary to carry out studies, with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association, to prepare business plans and
to determine appropriate cost-recovery measures to be adopted by
MJCA's Departments of the Administrator General and Public
Trustee and the Registrar General, (b) furnish to the
Association copies of such studies for its review and comments,
and (c) adopt and cause these Departments to adopt and implement
such business plans and cost recovery measures, as shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
10.   The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to carry out
a special review of the training funds component in Part E of
the Project not later than twelve months after the commencement
of operations of the funds.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                               Special Account
Page  18
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement with respect to Special Account "A"
and Category (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement with respect to Special Account
"B";
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$1,000,000 for Special Account "A" and an amount of $500,000 for
Special Account "B" to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 for Special Account
"A" and $250,000 for Special Account "B" until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR
2,400,000 and SDR 800,000, respectively.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
      (b)   (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                    Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                    requests for deposits into the Special Account
                    at such intervals as the Association shall
                    specify.
            (ii)    Prior to, or at the time of each such request,
                    the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                    the documents and other evidence required
                    pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                    the payment or payments in respect of which
                    replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                    each such request, the Association shall, on
                    behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
                    Credit Account and deposit into the Special
                    Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                    requested and as shall have been shown by said
                    documents and other evidence to have been paid
                    out of the Special Account for eligible
                    expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
Page  19
by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
