Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21892-1bR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 22.2 MILLION
(US$28.60 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOR A
UTILITIES SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
March 9, 2001
Private Sector Group
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 5, 2001)
Currency Unit = Lesotho Loti
Lesotho Loti = US$0.12955
US$1 = 7.7 Maloti
FISCAL YEAR
July 1   June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          African Development Bank                             LTC       Lesotho Telecommunications Corporation
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy                          MOC       Ministry of Communications
CPAR          Countiy Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR)         NCB       National Competitive Bidding
CTB           Central Tender Board                                 OMR       Output Monitoring Report
EIB           European Investment Bank                             PASPU    Project Accounts Section of the Privatization
Unit
EMP           Environmental Mitigation Plan                        PFS       Project Financial Statement
EOI           Expressions of Interest                              PEP       Project Implementation Plan
ESKOM         Electricity Services Company of South Africa         PMR       Project Management Report
FARAH         Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing lHandbook    PPF   Project Preparation Facility
FMC           Financial Management Committee                       PPSD      Privatization and Private Sector Development
FMI           Financial Management Initiative                      PSD       Private Sector Development
FMS           Financial Management System                          PU        Privatization Unit
GoL           Govermnent of Lesotho                                QCBS      Quality and Cost Based Selection
GPN           General Procurement Notice                           SADC      South African Development Committee
ICB           International Competitive Bidding                    SAPP      Southem Africa Power Pool
IDA           International Development Association                SDR       Special Drawing Rights
IMTF          Interim Management Task Force                        SOE       Statement of Expenses
LACI          Loan Administration Change Initiative                SPN       Special Procurement Notice
LEC           Lesotho Electricity Corporation                      UNDB      United Nations Development Business
LHDA          Lesotho Highlands Development Authority              USAID    United States Agency for International
Development
LHWP          Lesotho Highlands Water Project                      VCL       Voda Com Lesotho
LTA           Lesotho Telecommunication Authority                  WTO       World Trade Organization
Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo
Acting Country Manager/Director:        Fayez S. Omar
Sector Manager/Director:       Demba Ba
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Mohua Mukherjee



LESOTHO
UTILITIES SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 10
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 12
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      17
3. Benefits and target population                                                     17
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      18
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          19
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         21
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design                            22
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   23
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        23
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           24
2. Financial                                                                          25
3. Technical                                                                          25
4. Institutional                                                                      26
5. Environmental                                                                      27
6. Social                                                                             29
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 30
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     31
2. Critical risks                                                                     32
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     33



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          33
2. Other                                                                            33
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       35
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       36
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        37
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 45
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       55
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary         56
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  67
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     77
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   92
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 93
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                94
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          95
Annex 11: Letter of Sector Policy: Policy Statement on the Restructuring of the Power Sector  96
MAP(S)



LESOTHO
Utilities Sector Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTPS
Date: March 9, 2001                               Team Leader: Mohua Mukherjee
Country Manager/Director: Fayez S. Omar           Sector Manager/Director: Demba Ba
Project ID: P070673                               Sector(s): BP - Privatization
Lending Instrument: Specific Investmnent Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [Xl Credit    [ I Grant     [ ] Guarantee    [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $28.60 million
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                   Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local -       Foreign          ota
BORROWER                                                        0.00           0.00          0.00
IDA                                                             1.00          27.60         28.60
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK                                        0.00           8.70           8.70
EUROPEAN COMMISSION (UNIDENTIFIED)                              0.00           0.20           0.20
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF BORROWING               2.00           0.00          2.00
COUNTRY
Total:                                                          3.00          36.50         39.50
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO
Responsible agency: PRIVATIZATION UNIT, MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Address: The Director, Privatization Unit, Private Bag A249, Maseru 100, Lesotho
Contact Person: Mr. M. T. Mashologu, Director
Tel: 266 317902                 Fax:                 Email: dirpp@adelfang.co.za
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY         2002      2003         2004      2005
Annual    3.00        9.00      14.60       2.00 _ _
Cumulative    3.00       12.00      26.60      28.60
Project implementation period: Four Years
Expected effectiveness date: 06/15/2001  Expected closing date:  12/15/2005
OCS PAD F %o. Rev  M, 2DOO



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project will address a key constraint in the implementation of Govemment of Lesotho's (GoL's)
ongoing private sector-led development strategy. Specifically, it will seek to improve business
infrastructure such as electricity and telecommunications services, including provisions for intemet
connectivity in the future. The present low levels of service coverage have proved to be a major bottleneck
to attracting private investment. A comerstone of GoL's overall economic growth and employment
generation strategy is to attract private foreign and domestic capital and expertise, given limited public
resource availability relative to the investment requirements. Improved business infrastructure will permit
Lesotho to take advantage of the contiguous large regional market that has opened up with the changes in
South Africa. Increased private sector participation in the provision of goods and services will lead to
greater integration and the improved use of resources.
The project supports the govermment's objective of giving priority to divestiture from the utilities sectors.
This is proposed to be done through the privatization of Lesotho Electricity Corporation (LEC) and
consolidation of the Lesotho Telecommunications Corporation (LTC) privatization, together with the
introduction of a stable, transparent and modem utilities regulatory framework for both sectors. These
reforms will pave the way for private sector investment capital and management to help to improve the
coverage, efficiency, affordability and reliability of electricity and telecommunications services, thus
releasing scarce GoL resources to be redirected to priority activities such as social service delivery.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The following key perfornance indicators and project outputs will be monitored through project
implementation to assess success in achieving the project's development objectives:
a. The majority of LEC capital stock is held by a private sector investor by not later than
December 31, 2002;
b. Decreasing fiscal transfers from Government to LEC to cover its loss-making operations--by
December 31, 2002, no further subsidies are made by GoL with a view to sustaining LEC current
operations;
c. Completion of studies on telecommunications regulation by December 2001 and regulations
updated by no later than June 2002
d. Establishment of a suitably staffed and equipped telecommunications regulator by December
2001.
e. Establishment of a suitably staffed electricity regulator by June 2003.
f. Establishment of the Unit Trust and the privatization trust fund (warehouse) by March 2002;
minimum of 200 local investors shall have invested in the Unit Trust by June 2003.
g. Implementation of LEC staff streamlining plan prior to divestiture.
h. Completion of the Muela Options study according to timetable agreed in the PIP.
i. Increased coverage of services in the telecommunication and electricity sectors by the end of the
project, relative to baseline in Year 2000.
j. Improvement in operating efficiency indicators (i.e., staff per 1000 connections) for privatized
LTC and LEC by the end of the project, relative to the baseline in Year 2000.
- 2-



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: Document number: IDA/R98-56            Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/04/98
A major goal of the Bank's country assistance strategy is to help GoL improve competitiveness and
achieve integration into the regional and global economy. The World Bank has been supporting the
pnvatization and private sector development process in Lesotho for the past five years. Low coverage and
high cost of infrastructure services (electricity and telecommunications services are accessible to less than
5 percent of the population) have been reported as the most significant constraints to private sector
growth, development and competitiveness. Given the large investment requirements to expand the utilities'
networks, GoL has concluded that it must attract private capital and private management. In the future,
the private sector development (PSD) strategy will aim to attract private sector capital for manufacturing
and service activities that will bring increased employment opportunities. The Bank is expected to provide
follow-up support to GoL through a PSD project focused on regional integration opportunities, the
development of sustainable micro-finance mechanisms, and entrepreneurship development, as pait of the
CAS.
Another important CAS goal is the maintenance of fiscal restraint and improved macroeconomic
performance. Privatization of utilities will support this objective by reducing fiscal transfers. In 1997
financial deterioration at LEC was the result of a collapse in the billing system that resulted in the
non-collection of revenues for almost 18 months. The fiscal transfers to LEC to cover losses resulting
from its inefficient operations (in 1999 LEC's net deficit was M4.5 million) had become untenable by
end-1999. As part of a Fund-monitored program, GoL has agreed to the transfer of management control
of LEC to the private sector, and to privatize the company through the sale of a majority of LEC shares to
a strategic investor at the earliest opportunity.
The project will have some limited poverty reduction elements. Poor households are expected to receive
better quality public services (health, education), and access to utilities may provide them with
opportunities to engage in infonnal economic activities. Increased access to electricity is also expected to
reduce the consumption of firewood in rural areas, and this will bring an accompanying reduction in the
rate of environmental degradation.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Private Sector Development Strategy of GoL:
The key objectives of GoL's private sector development strategy in the short term are to: (i) reduce the
fiscal burden resulting from inefficient public enterprises, in particular the utilities; (ii) privatize the
electricity and telecommunications utilities, and implement a modem legal and regulatory framework to
lay the foundation for open, market-driven development; and (iii) to ensure that the benefits of
privatization are shared by the local population, including some local shareholding in privatized
enterprises. GoL's role in the utilities sectors will shift to policy-making rather than owning the assets and
providing the service. GoL will be supported under the proposed credit with implementing the
liberalization of both sectors. Once service coverage and efficiency of electricity and telecommunications
are imnproved on a financially sustainable basis, GoL will be in a better position to pursue its Private
Sector Development strategy of entrepreneurship development and the creation of an investor-friendly
environment in the Southern Africa Development Community (SADC) community.
Following the adoption of the Privatization Act of 1995, GoL embarked on a disinvestment program
- 3 -



focused on the food, airlines, construction, tourism and phannaceutical industries. The program was
supported by the World Bank's Privatization and Private Sector Development (PPSD) project (Credit No.
26120-LS). The program started slowly, but gained momentum and twenty-four transactions were
completed. The PPSD project was designed to support privatization and did not provide for any
regulatory reform. The program's focus was affected by a rapid deterioration (1997/1998) in the banking,
electricity, water and telecommunications sectors. The resulting crisis and the increase in fiscal burden
prompted GoL to give priority to the major utilities and banks, which became the central focus of the
program, as stated in GoL's March 23, 1998 letter outlining its future policy for the privatization
program. The PPSD project was restructured to provide support to: stabilize the bankirng sector and avert
a banking crisis; promote the creation of a vehicle that would allow some local participation in the share
ownership of divested GoL assets (Investment Fund); introduce a financial specialist team at LTC, which
made significant progress with the collection of debts and downsizing the corporation; and begin work on
the establishment of a regulatory framework for the telecommunications, electricity and water sectors, to
encourage private investment.
Telecommunications Sector:
In February 1999, the Ministry of Communications (MOC) published "The Lesotho Telecommunications
Policy". The policy paid particular attention to the potential contribution of the telecommunications sector
to the overall perfonnance and competitiveness of the economy, as well as broader social issues. The Policy
provided for:
* A clear division of roles between the various players in the sector (Ministry, Regulator, Operators)
* The establishment of an independent regulatory authority, the Lesotho Telecommunications Authority
(LTA)
* The introduction of competition and private investment in the sector
*  The possibility of a limited period of exclusive rights for basic services for LTC
* The expansion of the availability of services via a Universal Service/Access policy
* The expansion of the range of services available
The policy provided the basis for the corporatization and partial privatization of Lesotho
Telecommunications Corporation (LTC). Postal and telecommunications services had been split in 1997.
The policy is silent on the matter of the Intemet, otherwise it falls within the scope of best intemational
practice for such statements.
In June 2000 a new telecommunications Act, the Lesotho Telecommunications Authority Act was passed
by Parliament. This Act implemented the key elements of the Telecommunications Policy. The Act inter
alia:
Established the LTA as an independent body:
* Broadly defined the functions, duties, powers and overall procedures of the LTA
* Established the financial basis of the LTA
* Broadly defined the licensing regime
* Established the LTA as the body responsible for radio frequency management
* Made provision for supporting Rules and Regulations to be issued either by the Minister or the LTA
* Broadly defined the duties and obligations of service providers (including interconnection)
* Facilitated the privatization of LTC
-4 -



The first stage of the privatization of LTC (sale of shares to strategic investor) is now complete, and the
consolidation process is underway, particularly in terms of strengthening the regulatory and policy capacity
in the sector as it adjusts to the new ownership structure. One of the major objectives of the
Telecommunications Policy was the reform of the sector in order to promote economic growth and private
investment. In this context the overall regulatory and legal environment is of vital concern to investors. A
legal and regulatory framework that enhances the security of investments, in the context of liberalization,
will generate new products, services, exports and employment. The Regulatory Reference Paper of the
World Trade Organization (WTO) provides a benchmark against which it is possible to assess the
adequacy of a regulatory regime in this regard.
The essential minimum principles of the WTO regulatory ftamework are described in Table 1.
Table 1 Benchmark key elements of regulatory regime and adequacy of regulatory regime in Lesotho
Key elements                                       Adequacy of regime in Lesotho
an independent regulatory authority                adequate
transparency in general                            partial
competitive safeguards of the type that            inadequate
would flow from competition law
Objective, non-discriminatory and                  partial
transparent allocation of scarce resources
(e.g. frequencies, numbers, rights of way)
public availability of licensing criteria           partial
equitable interconnection regime                   adequate
The regime in Lesotho is adequate with respect to the key matters of an independent regulatory authority
and an equitable interconnection regime, the framework for which is provided for in the Act. However, the
regime is inadequate in certain key aspects, but these deficiencies can be easily rectified when drafting the
license of LTC and the Rules and Regulations of LTA. The three matters that need to be addressed are:
*   There is no competition law in Lesotho and while the Act makes reference to non-discriminatory
behaviour it does not provide for the powers of investigation and enforcement normally associated with
a competition law. Until such time as such a law is in operation in Lesotho it is advisable to guard
against abusive and/or anti-competitive behaviour by dominant operators through other instruments. It
is quite common for these safeguards to be included in licenses and such provisions should be provided
for in the license of LTC (the current draft appears to be adequate in this regard).
* Though the intention of the Act appears to provide for 'transparency in general' there is no explicit
statement in the Act that the criteria for licensing will be available to the public. Schedule I of the Act,
'Business of the Authority' makes reference to public access to information which may be interpreted
as meaning public availability of the criteria for licensing and frequency allocation.
* The Act does not explicitly state that the allocation of scarce resources (in particular frequencies) will
- 5 -



be performed in an objective manner.
When these issues, competitive safeguards, transparency and objective allocation criteria, are resolved, the
regulatory regime for telecommunications in Lesotho will be WTO compliant in terms of the necessary
legal instruments. The regime will be fully compliant when these instruments are implemented in an
effective manner by the major regulatory and policy parties - the LTA and the Ministry. This raises the
issue of capacity building, which is discussed in the "Sector Issues" section below.
Key Sector Issues
The key sector issues are summarized below:
Low level of telecommunications and Internet service: The overall level of telephone density in Lesotho
is very low at approximately 1.0 lines per hundred population compared to world average of 10.5. Further,
there is a substantial gap between the level of service provision in urban areas compared to rural areas.
Equally, mobile penetration is low. There is significant unmet demand as measured by the waiting list.
Recognition of this state of affairs was a major driver of the Telecommunications Policy and the reforms
undertaken. The challenge now is to implement these reforms in such a way that its objectives are achieved.
Internet: The most striking feature of the sector in Lesotho is the very low level of Intemet penetration by
regional standards. The highest estimate for Internet subscribers in Lesotho is less than 500. In South
Africa there are over 650,000 subscribers or over 15,000 per million. The performance of Lesotho
represents a very serious "Digital Divide". Organisations like the UN, the G8 Summit and The World Bank
recognize the Intemet as a powerful instrument of development. Without easy access to information,
farmers cannot know what price is fair for their goods, traders have no altemative to buying imports from
local sources, doctors rely on ancient technology, voters can make no informed choices. Faxing a 40-page
document from Madagascar to Cote d'Ivoire costs about $45, sending it by courier $75 and e-mailing it
costs 20 cents. More and more African newspapers now post online editions, and use foreign news found
on the Internet. Africa Online, based in Nairobi, works in eight countries. One of its aims is to provide
Internet connections for people without their own telephones or computers. Using e-touch technology (a
simple way to operate e-mail), it wants to put terminals in post offices throughout the East African region.
Last month the company announced a deal with a bank to open a string of Internet centres. The current
status of the Internet in Lesotho means that the country is denied the opportunities mentioned above.
Separation of policy, regulatory and service provision functions: Separation of these roles has been
substantially achieved and will be completed following the finalization of the transaction to privatize LTC.
The achievement of the goals of the policy will then rest on the capacity of each party to fulfil its role and
interact in a positive manner with other actors.
Privatization: The transfer of LTC from the public sector to the private sector and the issue of a second
mobile license raises a set of issues never previously addressed in Lesotho, particularly in the context of the
commercial provision of services in a multi-operator environment. These issues include:
*   Ensuring compliance with the roll out and other conditions of LTC's license
*   Providing safeguards against anti-competitive behaviour
*   Ensuring an equitable interconnection regime
*   Promoting competition and licensing new service providers
*   Regulating the tariffs of the dominant operator
*   Promoting greater access to services
-6 -



* Effective management, monitoring and charging for radio spectrum
It is universally recognized that a private monopoly, if not subject to appropriate and effective regulation,
may act in its own narrow self-interest. The need for appropriate and effective regulation flows directly
from the policy adopted and the legislation enacted, initiatives which were supported by The World Bank.
Capacity of MOC to carry out its policy function: MOC has demonstrated its capacity to fonnulate and
implement policy and to facilitate the liberalization of the sector. In the past the MOC depended on LTC
for a large variety of inputs but circumstances have now changed. Universal Service and/or Access,
Universal Service Fund, the Intemet/Web Economy, e-commerce, e-govenmuent and competition policy and
practices in a multi-operator environment are now on the policy agenda of the MOC. At the same time, the
Ministry is not fully familiar with the regulatory practices and concepts that will be used by the LTA. The
MOC has recognized the need for strengthening its policy making capacity in order for it to fulfil its policy
making role, which will be implemented by the LTA. It also recognizes its need for a better understanding
of regulatory practices.
Limited regulatory capacity of LTA: The LTA was established very recently and its personnel, who are
mostly drawn from the Ministry of Communications, have some prior experience in the sector. However,
this experience is largely limited to the parastatal monopoly environment. The LTA recognizes that it lacks
the full set of skill and capabilities required to discharge its duties under the Act. Box 1 below illustrates
the required set of capabilities.
BOX 1
* a modem licensing procedure and the means of revoking or modify'ing licenses
* procedures to monitor and enforce timely compliance with legislative and license provisions
* a detailed, timely, effective and practical means to resolve network interconnection issues, including
technical, capacity, compatibility, routing, price, billing, and other related matters
* a capability and methodology to assess the costs of the provision of telecommunications services
provided to the public and to other operators for tariff approval purposes
* a radio spectrum (frequency) monitoring and management capability, allocation plan, radio
authorisation policy for public and private networks, and a radio authorisation process
* a telephone numbering plan and procedures for the allocation of blocks of numbers
* a capability to specify standards for different classes of telecommunications equipment and for testing
compliance with these standards
* appropriately defined Universal Service Obligations and costing of such obligations
* procedures to monitor service quality and resolve disputes related to quality between operators and
between operators and customers
* criteria whereby the tariffs for particular services gain unregulated status
All of the above capabilities were required of the LTA either directly or indirectly by the Act and
necessitate appropriate capacity building. Some specific issues are elaborated below.
- 7-



Spectrum management capability: The spectrum management function has been transferred to LTA as
provided for in the Act. There will be increasing use of wireless technology by both existing operators and
new entrants. In order to ensure that the best use is made of the radio spectrum, robust and effective
procedures and practices must be in place supported by appropriate infrastructure and staffed. Currently
the LTA possesses one fixed monitoring station, installed in 1993 and in good working order, located near
the capital, and one piece of portable equipment. LTA has a very limited monitoring capability. LTA can
monitor frequencies between 2khz and 1,000 Mhz. Even within this range of frequencies the equipment
cannot monitor the usage by the Global Satelite Module (GSM) 900 Mhz operator(s). This limited
capability will impinge upon the discharge of the statutory duties of LTA and will reduce its ability to
collect fees from frequency users. Further, the lack of an effective frequency management and monitoring
capability may prove to be an obstacle to the provision of services to customers.
Tariff policy: Tariffs structure and levels will be determined by a price cap regime fonning part of the
license of LTC. However, LTA lacks the necessary costing methodology. The regime will be reviewed after
two years. By that time the LTA must have fully developed a tariff policy which will sustain investment,
promote greater penetration, facilitate new services and allow for the full benefits of the Internet. Faced
with these complex demands the LTA requires specific and early capacity building.
Interconnection: The key to sector development and competition is interconnection. Interconnection is
currently practiced for calls between LTC and Voda Com Lesotho (VCL). This will need to be refined in
order to sustain an environment of 2 mobile operators, resellers, and numerous service providers. LTA has
recognized the need for specific capacity building in this key area.
Universal Service/Access and Rural Access
A key component of the privatization transaction is the roll out of an additional 50,000 new lines, but this
considerable expansion in service will not necessarily address the urban v rural divide. Consequently, in
conjunction with the MOC, the LTA needs to consider options, develop a strategy and implement the
strategy to address this issue. Both the MOC and the LTA recognize the need for specific assistance in this
area.
Electricity Sector:
The right and obligation to supply electricity in Lesotho has been vested within the Lesotho Electricity
Corporation (LEC), which was created in 1969 by the Electricity Act. Despite a number of amendments,
this Act still provides the legal basis for LEC to generate, transmit, distribute and supply electricity in the
country. Power generation and transmission/distribution are in practice carried out by separate entities,
although all assets are owned by GoL. The Muela hydroelectric power plant supplies LEC with about 85
percent of its power requirements. One of the important modifications to the original Act is the requirement
that the LEC should be financially self-sufficient and should be operated on a fully commercial basis.
However, LEC has been making losses and has been unable to meet increasing demand for services. These
losses have been mainly due to its inefficient operations which have required fiscal transfers and therefore
adversely affected the national budget. In 1999, LEC made significant losses, primarily due to
non-collection of reVenues, and GoL transfers to cover these losses represented an important percentage of
government expenditures.
The government has decided to privatize LEC, through the sale of a majority of shares to a strategic
investor, and the transfer of full management control to this investor. To accomplish the privatization, the
government intends to take three key actions. First, the government must put in place a credible regulatory
- 8 -



framework for electricity; second, the power system control function must be separated from LEC and
established as an independent entity to ensure that the purchasers of LEC do not have control over the
country's future trading with the Southern Africa Power Pool (SAPP); and third, adequate arrangements
must be made to reduce staffing at LEC in a way that essential skills are retained in the country. Draft
legislation for the regulatory framework has already been proposed, and a task force has been appointed to
finalize the Electricity Bill for cabinet approval. The separation of the system control function will be
guided by advisors that the government proposes to hire under the project. It is estimated that about 40-50
percent of LEC staff may face retrenchment (i.e., about 250 people), and will have to be provided with
severance packages and training, in view of the scarcity of alternative employment opportmities in the
country. These arrangements will be communicated early to staff and customers of LEC through a strong
communications program by the Interim Management Task Force (IMTF) temporarily appointed to
manage LEC.
Proposed Retrenchment Program: GoL has a retrenchment policy that will guide the (MTF), which is
expected to implement the program. In particular, the cash payout component of the severance package
will have to be in line with the employment contract and the labor law, and will be supplemented by
additional training and counseling, given the visibility of the transaction and the need to attract support of
the key stakeholders such as labor unions and retrenched workers. The training (either entrepreneurship, or
new job skills, as appropriate) and counseling will be provided to retrenched workers in order to enable
them to pursue other opportunities and to alleviate the social impact of the staff reductions. GoL's
proposed retrenchment program will cover the following costs: (i) severance payments for all employees;
(ii) assistance including early and sustained communication to LEC workers by IMTF on the subject of
retrenchment and restructuring; and (iii) counseling and training. The severance payments will be
financed out of the revenues collected from LEC's ongoing operations. Other items such as training,
counseling and communication will be supported under the proposed project.
GoL has indicated that it intends to end budgetary support for the operations of LEC. However, the Muela
hydropower plant, from which LEC purchases most of its electricity, was financed largely on commercial
terms. If the bulk electricity tariff charged to LEC by Muela were to be based on costs, it would have to
exceed what is currently paid. Agreement has been reached in principle between GoL and the Bank that the
tariff paid by LEC to Muela will be set equal to the cross-border price; this is expected to be implemented
in the context of the reform program. The government understands that no private sector investor will be
interested in acquiring a majority stake in LEC unless there is assurance that power will be purchased (for
transmission and distribution by LEC) at the cross-border price. To date, following non-payment by LEC
of its obligations to Muela for the purchase of power, GoL has provided major budgetary transfers to cover
the debt service obligations of Muela to its commercial creditors, which is also fiscally unsustainable.
The European Investment Bank (EIB) is one of the major financiers of Muela and its consent will be
required for any changes to the power purchase agreement (e.g. regarding tariffs) that exists between LEC
and Muela. EIB is in discussions with GoL and International Development Association (IDA) on the
proposed privatization of LEC, and has indicated that it is prepared to accept a comprehensive
restructuring of the electricity sector as the basis for giving its consent to changes in the LEC-Muela
contract. The proposed credit will finance a study of the options to commercialize Muela, and EIB has
been a major contributor to the terms of reference for the Muela Options Study.
The main electricity sector issues to be addressed are: (a) to bring LEC finances under control and direct
resources towards expanded coverage. Financial distress of LEC prevents the implementation of the
country-wide energy master plan, resulting in very low coverage of the population (only 3-5 percent of
households); (b) inefficient service provision resulting in part from low employee productivity of 18
-9-



connections per employee (regional averages between 60 and 160); and (c) the power purchase agreement
must be amended to reflect the cross-border price prior to divestiture, and assurances to this effect must be
in place.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The government program calls for the privatization of LTC and LEC through the sale of majority shares to
a strategic investor. GoL would also encourage some degree of local participation in any shares of
privatized utilities that will not be held by the strategic investors in telecommunications and electricity.
This is intended to distribute some financial benefits of privatization to local investors, as well as to
strengthen the education and communications / outreach to the local customer base of the privatized
utilities.
Telecommunications. The proposed credit will support capacity building and the establishment of a
telecommunications regulator. Potential private investors require this, and it is in GoL's interest to have a
well functioning regulator to balance the interests of all parties. The aim of privatization is to allow greater
flexibility and efficiency in the management of the main operator and to thereby prepare the company to
face competition from new entrants. Furthermore, it is expected that LTC will get access to much needed
capital to re-capitalize and embark on an investment program.
Electricity. The project addresses the main sector issues of controlling LEC finances and improving
coverage. To address the financial issue, and regain financial control at LEC, GoL is in the process of
recruiting (through international tender) an Interim Management Task Force (IMTF) to operate LEC for 18
months under a perfornance contract, and prepare the company for divestiture. The IMTF will undertake
immediate actions to re-establish the integrity of the customer data base and increase revenue collection to
restore financial viability. The management team will be responsible for pursuing a financial tumaround,
and in particular, achieving at least a break-even position for LEC in order to limit the requirement for
fiscal transfers.
To address the problem of low coverage of electricity, the IMTF will identify the potentially commercially
viable service territory which will be the responsibility of the strategic investor. Finally, the IMTF will
recommend model institutional arrangements to deliver electricity services to areas which are outside the
service territory and which would be commercially un-viable to be connected by the strategic investor.
Low coverage is also to be addressed through the regulatory framework. A Legislative Task Team,
consisting of representation from all stakeholders (chaired by Ministry of Natural Resources and
coordinated by the Privatization Unit) has been recently established (June 2000) to redraft and finalize the
Electricity Bill. Furthermore, in order to ensure fair treatment of the regulated companies and to protect
consumers, agreement has been reached with the government that an independent electricity regulator will
be established. Future private sector capital to address issues of low coverage, is expected to be available
to the sector once a credible electricity regulator is in place.
Lack of skills is contributing to low productivity of some LEC staff. In addition, LEC is overstaffed. GoL
has a policy statement which covers the retrenchment program at LEC, and there are clear government
policy guidelines related to retrenchment in the course of privatization. The proposed credit will support
LEC staff streamlining and training (although it will not finance the actual retrenchment payments), which
is expected to address the productivity issue. The IMTF will carry out a comprehensive skills audit, with
training recommendations for employees who will be retained, and the design of a comprehensive severance
package (counseling, cash payout and training) for those who will be let go.
- 10 -



The high cost of electricity in Lesotho is related to the purchase of power by LEC from Muela, as the tariff
charged by Muela to LEC incorporates the high commercial debt service that has resulted from Muela's
financing structure. Consultants will be engaged to recommend options for the commercialization of
Muela, including a debt workout. Annex 5 contains a detailed account of the sources of LEC's high cost
operations, and the extent of technical and non-techical losses. The consultants' recommendations are
expected to result in the development of a strategy to eliminate Muela's dependence on growing fiscal
transfers to meet its repayment obligations to commercial creditors, in the face of a tariff adjustment to
cross-border prices. EIB, a major stakeholder in the financing of Muela, will be closely involved in the
tenns of reference for this study.
The government recognizes that the strategic investor will not expand the network all over the country, as
the rate of return required by international private capital will make the service unaffordable to poor, rural
households. Also, there will not be sufficient private sector interest in purchasing a majority stake in LEC
if there is a requirement to service commercially unattractive areas. Therefore, the IMTF, during its 18
month management tenure at LEC, will provide a definition of the "service ternitory" to be offered to the
future strategic investor, i.e., the commercially viable customer base. GoL will be supported by the Credit
to explore and test, based on international best practices, the types of institutional and financing
mechanisms that can be mobilized in order to provide electricity to communities outside the service
territory. These modalities will be tested on a pilot basis. An approach to be considered is to have a
one-time capital subsidy to provide access to generation and distribution assets. The proposed project will
include financing of the technical assistance to implement changes in the distribution standards used for
rural electrification, and the establishment of appropriate institutional arrangements.
The distribution standards will be changed to utilize a mixed system of single phase and three phase
distribution. They will use small transformers that can be easily upgraded as demand increases and in
cases where the demand is low will use cost-saving devices such as steel wire rather than standard
conductor. The project will also include a pilot for the use of renewables to supply remote villages.
The institutional changes will be designed around a cooperative system in which overheads will be shared
among several villages. The structure will be designed to promote ownership by the beneficiaries and will
be required to be self-supporting after the distribution system is built using the capital subsidy. An
additional aspect of the electricity access pilots that may be tested, would be to complement them with
income-generating opportunities, including truining and entrepreneurship development where appropriate,
in parallel to the customers' first-time access to electricity.
Telecommunications. The project will address the following sector and capacity building issues. (a)
Spectrum management capability: the spectrum management function has been transferred to LTA as
provided for in the Telecommunications Act. There will be increasing use of wireless technology by both
existing operators and new entrants. In order to ensure that the best use is made of the radio spectrum,
robust and effective procedures and practices must be in place supported by appropriate infrastructure and
skilled personnel. (b) Tariff policy: Tariff structure and levels will be determined by a price cap regime
forming part of the license of LTC. However, LTA lacks the necessary costing methodology. The regime
will be reviewed after two years. By that time the LTA must have fully developed a tariff policy which will
sustain investment, promote greater penetration, facilitate new services and allow for the full benefits of the
Intemet. Faced with these complex demands the LTA requires specific and early capacity building. (c)
Interconnection. The key to sector development and competition is interconnection. Interconnection is
currently practiced for calls between LTC and VCL. This will need to be refined in order to sustain an
environment of two mobile operators, resellers, and numerous service providers. LTA has recognized the
need for specific capacity building in this key area. (d) Universal Service/Access and Rural Access. A key
- 11 -



component of the privatization transaction is the roll out of an additional 50,000 new lines, but this
considerable expansion in service will not necessarily address the urban rural divide. Consequently, in
conjunction with the MOC, the LTA needs to consider options, develop a strategy and implement the
strategy to address this issue. Both the MOC and the LTA recognize the need for specific assistance in this
area.
Local Participation: An investment fund to offer local investors shares in the privatized utilities (as well
as other privatized companies) will operate within a well-specified regulatory framework. The management
contract for the private fund manager has been financed under the PPSD project. However, the proposed
credit will continue support to the Investment Fund so that local participation in utilities' shares can also
take place. In particular, the major area of support under the proposed credit will be for the fund managers
to establish a warehousing facility for shares to be temporarily held until they qualify for placement in the
investment fund. This will be a suitable method of reserving shares of the privatized utilities for local
investors, who will constitute, in addition to GoL, the minority shareholders in LEC and LTC.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
A. LEC Divestiture and Electricity Expansion
This component will focus on upgrading the electricity sector through the inflow of private capital, new
technology and management necessary to increase access and improve the affordability and reliability of
electricity services provided in the country. It comprises three sub-components:
(i) Interim Management Task Force. Technical assistance will be provided for 18 months by an
interim management task force (IMTF) that will manage the day-to-day activities of LEC until a strategic
investor is in place. The IMTF will be held accountable (under a performance contract with incentives) for
(a) the financial tumaround of LEC, (b) partially addressing the backlog by installing up to 8,000 new
electricity connections, (c) changing over 8,000 existing credit meters to pre-payment meters in order to
improve LEC's revenue base and also to reduce the need for meter-readers, (d) defining the service territory
deemed to be commercially viable, which will be offered to the strategic investor for expansion of the
network under the existing tariff regime, (e) a skills audit to serve as the basis for streamlining the LEC
labor force, (f) design and implementation of the human resources (HR) restructuring/downsizing program,
including the communication program, developing retrenchment packages, counseling and training of
retrenched workers, and training of retained workers, (g) developing and implementing a communication
plan regarding the LEC restructuring process to intemal and extemal stakeholders, (h) carrying out the
Access to Electricity study, (i) clearing the backlog of unaudited accounts for the last five years, and (j)
providing the necessary accounting, financial and technical information required by the sales advisors.
Under the IMTF management, the project will seek to promote the transfer of existing non-core activities of
LEC to the (local) private sector. This will be done in conjunction with the LEC streamlining/downsizing
program wherever possible, in order to offer employment opportunities to laid-off LEC staff through
sub-contracting.
(ii) Sales Advisory Group. A professional advisory team, with expertise in investment banking,
intemational law and technical issues will be appointed to assist GoL with developing a divestiture strategy
for LEC and the identification of, and negotiation with, a suitable strategic investor to purchase the
majority stake in LEC. The Sales Advisory Group will support GoL until the privatization transaction is
- 12 -



complete. The Credit will finance a communications strategy on three fionts, addressing informational
needs related to LEC privatization: intemal to LEC; from LEC to its customer base, explaining the
privatization strategy and building awareness with respect to expected benefits; and marketing LEC
internationally through roadshows, etc, to inform potential strategic investors. This will require a public
relations campaign to promote a public awareness program for both intemal LEC staff and its customers,
and the implementation of a strong Communications Program to promote private sector options to local
stakeholders and strategic foreign operators/investors.
(iii) LEC Streamlining. Retrenchment payments will not be made using resources from the
project. This component will include (a) training and counseling of the retrenched employees, and training
of retained employees that may be necessary in addition to the tasks undertaken by IMTF in the context of
implementing the restructuring/downsizing program; (b) comprehensive monitoring and evaluation of the
LEC downsizing program; and (c) a Government communication program on the LEC restructuring
process.
B. Regulatory Reform
The role of the regulators will be to enforce appropriate regulations in the utilities sectors, ensure fair and
transparent treatment of sectoral operators, and encourage new entrants (particularly in the area of
value-added services for telecommunications. and access to the Intemet), private investment and the
transfer of technologies. GoL will be assisted with evaluating the possibility of merging these regulatory
fimctions together under a future multi-sector regulatory agency. Furthermore, the proposed credit will
provide support, including the financing of technical advisory services, to the Ministries of Communication,
Natural Resources and Finance to oversee the implementation of the privatization process. Policy-setting
capacity is perceived to be an important element for both the telecommunications and the electricity sectors,
and expertise at the respective ministries must keep pace with the introduction of strengthened regulatory
capacity. Policy advisors to the respective ministries, as well as study tours for ministry staff to gain
familiarity and experience with intemational best practices, will be supported under the project.
Telecommunications Regulator. The Lesotho Telecommunications Policy, which supports liberalization of
the sector and privatization of LTC, was adopted by Cabinet in February 1999, and the
Telecommunications Act was passed by Parliament in February 2000. To date, legal and regulatory
assistance was provided to GoL by United States Agency for International Development (USAID), for: (i)
drafting the Telecommunications Bill which provides for an independent regulator for the
telecommunications sector; and (ii) defining the new regulatory functions. However, additional assistance
is required to develop and enforce the set of regulations which will allow the framework to be implemented;
especially in technical areas such as competition policy, interconnection, tariffs and universal service. The
PPSD Project has financed a study on the "Finalization of the Telecommunications Regulatory
Framework". The study is near completion and is expected to give guidance on implementing the
appropriate regulatory framework needed in a newly liberalized and privatized environment. The new legal
and regulatory framework aims at putting all operators on an equal competitive footing with respect to
regulatory provisions on tariffs, interconnection and universal access. Resources will be provided to build
capacity in the independent regulatory agency for the telecommunications sector (including on important
topics such as introduction of regulations encouraging investment and competition in Intemet-host services
and e-commerce), and will be complemented by the availability of an in-house regulatory advisor
(intemationally recruited) for the duration of the project. From a sector development standpoint, technical
assistance under the project will examine and formulate recommendations related to liberalization of
intemational traffic, fully liberalizing the provision of intemet service, and liberalizing tariffs. Lesotho is
surrounded by Africa's only real internet player, South Africa. To allow Lesotho to leverage its proximity
- 13 -



to this market would have a positive developmental impact. Regulatory capacity-building will extend to an
assessment of the potential for e-govemance (i.e., doing on-line any Governmental function that is now
done on paper - customs, taxes, licensing, corporate filings, etc.) and the benefits of transparency that grow
from it.
The project will finance the following: (a) some of the running costs of the LTA for two years (any
shortfall after license revenues are taken into account; the agency must be fully self-sustaining after no
more than two years, from license revenues); (b) long tern resident advisor for two years to assist LTA in
its duties and ensure the transfer of skills; (c) short term consultants for two years for advice on specific
issues and to transfer skills; (d) training over two years to build LTA capacity through in-house, external,
overseas elements, workshops linked to studies; (e) appropriate study tours and/or staff exchanges; (f)
studies on universal service/access; interconnection; promoting Internet; and tariff policy; and (g) any
additional requirements of frequency management and monitoring equipment to enable LTA to discharge its
statutory duties.
Electricity Regulator. Technical assistance under the proposed credit consists of (a) finalization of the
definition of new regulatory functions; (b) financial support for the establishment of an independent
regulatory agency, including initial support as required for two years to assist with operating costs that are
not covered by license and concession revenues (the regulatory agency will have to be fully self-sustaining
after two years); and (c) establishment of operational procedures for the agency. In particular, elements of
the proposed assistance include: a) an in-house long term regulatory advisor (internationally recruited) to
provide technical assistance to the regulator; (b) finalization of key procedures for the regulator to award
licenses and concessions to the private sector; (c) in-house training programs for the staff of the regulatory
agency and other key agencies in the sector; and (d) study tours to suitably identified countries having
already liberalized their power sector.
C. Future of Energy Sector in Lesotho
This will involve two activities:
--A two-part study on the future options related to hydroelectric power in Lesotho. The first part
of the study will specifically recommend options related to the commercialization of Muela, and the second
part will consider the potential for the development of additional hydropower resources for export.
--Electricity Access Pilots. This component is intended to assess the viability and modalities of
providing service to those areas that will not be commercially viable, and will remain un-served following
the transfer of LEC ownership from GoL to a private investor. Once the IMTF identifies the service
territory, it will seek to identify a series of pilot areas outside the service territory in consultation with GoL
and concemed stakeholders, in which to develop institutional mechanisms and management arrangements
that will allow for sustainable electricity service delivery, with the capital investment initially supported by
IDA financing. Community-based private sector institutional arrangements (e.g., through local concessions)
will permit recovery of operating cost, maintenance and depreciation allowance. It is anticipated that
approximately 3,000 new customers outside the service territory will be connected by low-cost technologies
used to extend the grid, and separately, a total of up to 1,000 new customers spread over five pilot isolated
communities will be connected using stand-alone generation facilities. Studies will first be financed to
support the development of these arrangements. In particular, intensive surveys of proposed pilot
communities will be undertaken. In addition, the project will seek to develop access to income generating
opportunities/private sector development in these pilot areas, in parallel with the access to electricity.
There is an ongoing effort by the government to implement a rural telephone service program. This
- 14-



proposed project will support the introduction of rural telephone services in the same locations as the
electricity access pilots wherever feasible.
D. Private Sector Development
This will involve two activities:
--Establishment of the Investnent Fund/Unit Trust. Financing will be provided to continue
supporting on-going work to establish the Lesotho Unit Trust. With financing provided under the
IDA-financed Privatization and Private Sector Development Project, the Privatization Unit is in the process
of recruiting a management company that will establish and operate the Unit Trust. The chosen
management company is required to undertake a consultancy that will constitute the essential activities
required to establish and start operating the Unit Trust. The main principles relating to the structure of the
portfolio of the Unit Trust are based on: accessibility (by Basotho to their savings at all times);
competitiveness (in terms of returns and risks compared with other investment opportunities in Lesotho and
South Africa); and manageable risk (to avoid potential loss of confidence in capital market development in
the medium term). It is crucial that the Unit Trust's local equity portfolio consists only of shares with a
proven track record; shares of companies with growth potential (including the shares of the privatized
utilities) will be put in a Privatization Trust Fund (a warehouse) until they become financially viable. The
project will support capacity building of the Unit Trust regulatory authority at Central Bank of Lesotho.
--Private Sector Development Studies. Technical assistance will be financed to identify and
support activities that will encourage regional integration efforts and identify Lesotho's areas of
comparative advantage. Potential areas to be included for study include the removal of administrative
barriers to investments, intemet and e-commerce possibilities within the region, targeting of high value
added goods that may be developed as non-traditional exports, and identification of actions to boost the
competitiveness of local firms. Technical assistance will also be provided to identify and support income
generating activities that can be associated with first-time access to electricity and telephone services,
particularly in the electricity access pilot areas.
E. Advisory Services and Capacity Building.
Resources for advisory services and training of staff at the Ministries of Natural Resources,
Communications and Finance will be funded under this component. Advisory services include a Technical
Advisor to the Board of LEC, to assist with the supervision of IMTF; a Technical Advisor to the Ministry
of Communications on Policy Issues for Telecommunications; and a Legal Advisor to the Minister of
Finance to assist with the formulation of a Competition Law and other institutional matters related to
regional commerce. Capacity building includes training needs for the staff of the Ministries of
Communications, Natural Resources and Finance, respectively. The procurement for agreed activities
pertaining to these Ministries will be carried out by the respective Ministry, with all necessary coordination
and support provided by the Privatization Unit, which has familiarity with IDA procedures and
requirements.
F. Implementation.
This component is proposed to include contracts of key senior staff at the Privatization Unit; legal,
financial, audit and other consultancies that will be required by PU from time to time; some public
awareness costs; and the operational costs of PU within an agreed ftamework. The African Development
- 15 -



Bank will finance training costs, office equipment and vehicles; the advisor to the director; other officers,
support personnel, and some public awareness costs.
A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$1.5 million was made available by IDA to GoL in August
1998, for a proposed supplemental project on privatization and regulatory reform. The appraisal of that
proposed project had to be canceled due to the outbreak of civil disturbances the following month.
Resources of that PPF were used for the study on Regulatory Reform for Electricity and Water Sectors, the
financial workout team and market analysis for LTC, and the divestiture of Lesotho Bank. It is proposed
that the PPF, together with an additional PPF of US$0.6 million extended for preparation of the Utilities
Sector Reform project, will be refinanced under this project.
1. LTC, LEC DIVESTITURE AND                                        0.0                  0.0
ELECTRICITY EXPANSION
A. Interim Management Task Force    BP                14.33      36.4       7.50      26.2
B. Sales Advisory Group           BP                   3.56       9.0       3.56      12.4
C. LEC Staff Streamlining         BP                   2.46       6.3       0.31        1.1
2. REGULATORY REFORM
A. Electricity Sector              Institutional       1.32       3.4       0.81       2.8
Development
B. Telecommunications Sector       Institutional       4.30       10.9      4.00      14.0
Development
3. FUTURE OF ENERGY SECTOR   Institutional             5.01       12.7      5.01       17.5
IN LESOTHO                         Development
4. PRIVATE SECTOR                  Institutional       2.04        5.2      2.04        7.1
DEVELOPMENT                        Development
5. ADVISORY SERVICES AND           BP                   1.30       3.3       1.30       4.5
CAPACITY BUILDING
ASSISTANCE
6. IMPLEMENTATION                                      2.93        7.4      2.00        7.0
7. PPF I                           BP                  2.10        5.3      2.10        7.3
Total Project Costs                  39.35      100.0     28.63      100.0
Total Financing Required                    39.35     100.0      28.63     100.0
- 16 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
GoL has made a policy commitment to transfer responsibility for provision of electricity and
telecommunications services to the private sector, while reserving strategic planning and policy functions
for the State. The broad policy guidelines formulated in the Power Sector Policy Statement propose, in
particular, the removal of monopoly for transmission and distribution, and the restructuring of the tariff
structure to cover operating costs and recover costs associated with investments. The proposed credit will
support the government with the establishment of credible regulatory authorities for both
telecommunications and electricity, and will support an assessment of their possible future consolidation
into a multi-sectoral regulator. Specifically, the key reformns supported by the project are:
(i)    Power Sector Policy Letter, which undertakes liberalization of the electricity sector;
(ii)   Liberalization of the telecommunications sector;
(iii)   Transfer of LEC management control to private sector IMTF in preparation for divestiture;
(iv)   Transfer of majority ownership of LTC and LEC to private sector strategic investors;
(v)   Drafting of Electricity Bill, submission to Parliament and passage of Electricity Act;
(vi)   Establishment of Electricity Regulator;
(vii)  Support to the establishment of Telecommunications Regulator;
(viii) Preparation of Strategy for Muela Commercialization, based on recommendations of
Consultants' Study to be supported under the project;
(ix)   Implementation of Warehousing facility and the Investment Fund, to broaden local
participation in share ownership of privatized enterprises
(x)   Institutional arrangements to support rural electrification and telephony, possibly including
the establishment of an agency, in keeping with international best practice, to channel
capital subsidies, to maintain safety standards and to give technical and financial advice to
rural communities operating their own distribution systems; and
(xi)   Legal adjustments to permnit the establishment of rural distribution utilities and have them
co-exist with the main utility; in particular, rural utilities must be allowed to charge
different tariffs depending on the source of generation and individual customer density
characteristics.
3. Benefits and target population:
The primary beneficiaries are the business sector and individual customers utilizing utility services.
Sector reform and associated liberalization and privatization will provide strong incentives for improving
service delivery in the utilities sectors, which is currently one of the major constraints to private sector
development and economic growth through regional integration.
The indirect benefits will arise from the reduction of public investments in the utility sectors and increased
tax revenue from privatized entities. The resultant impact will be that the project will free up scarce
- 17 -



public resources for investment in social programs and other priority activities which are likely to accrue
to the poorer parts of the population who are larger beneficiaries of (or more dependent on), government
social sector spending.
On a pilot scale, there will also be beneficiaries in rural and undeserved areas, since the project will be
looking to develop institutional mechanisms to mobilize local capital and management to bring utility
services to these segments of the population.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
1. Implementation Period: Four Years; June 200 1-June 2005
Executing Agency: Privatization Unit
Project Coordination and Oversight: The Privatization Unit (PU), which is linked to the Ministry of
Finance but exists as an independent entity as called for by the 1995 Privatization Act, has a complement
of professional staff who have acquired knowledge and experience in the utilities sectors privatization and
PSD and implementation of Bank-financed projects.
Overall coordination and project implementation will be the responsibility of the PU. The PU will be in
charge of: (a) coordinating all project activities; (b) planning the annual work programs, preparing annual
budgets; preparing project accounts; (c) carrying out all procurement and selection of consultants in
accordance with Bank guidelines; (d) preparing project reports and eventually disbursement reports
ensuring the smooth flow of funds; (e) monitoring project implementation and evaluating its impact; and (f)
coordinating the preparation and timely delivery of audits.
Financial Management Arrangements
The Project Accounts Section of the Privatization Unit (PASPU) will be responsible for ensuring that
financial management and reporting procedures will be acceptable to the government, the World Bank and
other Cooperating Partners.
The principal objective of the PASPU's Fnancial Management System (FMS) will be to support
management in their deployment of limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency and
effectiveness in the delivery of outputs required to achieve desired outcomes, that will serve the needs of the
people of Lesotho. Specifically, the FMS must be capable of producing timely, understandable, relevant
and reliable financial information that will enable management to plan, implement, monitor and appraise
the project's overall progress towards the achievement of its objectives.
For the PASPU to deliver on the aforementioned objectives, its financial management system will be
developed in accordance with the Financial Management Action Plan presented in Annex 6D. Salient
features of the Action Plan include: retention of a Financial Management Consultant to develop and install
the project's FMS and to prepare the project's Financial Procedures Manual; establishment of a Financial
Management Committee; recruitment of a Chief Accountant and the availability of support staff; capacity
building; establishment of a Fixed Assets Register and a Contracts Register; monthly bank reconciliation
and quarterly reporting of financial information; cash flow management including variance analysis; an
annual external audit will be undertaken on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
By credit effectiveness, the PASPU will not yet have in place a FMS that can provide, with reasonable
- 18-



assurance, accurate and timely information as required by the Bank for PMR-based disbursements i.e. the
Project Management Report (PMR). However, the appointment of the Chief Accountant and the successful
implementation of the project's FMS and Financial Procedures Manual should facilitate the introduction of
PMR-based disbursements within 18 months of credit effectiveness. In that regard, a financial
management review of the project will be undertaken by a World Bank Financial Management Specialist
within 12 months of credit effectiveness to assess progress. In the short-term, existing disbursement
procedures, as outlined in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook, will be followed, i.e., Direct Payment,
Reimbursement and Special Commitments.
Procurement Arrangements: Institutional Arrangements
The Privatization Unit will be responsible for all procurement funded by the project. It will handle the
procurement requests of each implementing agency according to monthly procurement schedules submitted
to it. It will have staff who are fully familiar with Bank procurement procedures as they would have had
prior experience under the Privatization and Private Sector Development Project. Annex 6 and the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) describe component-specific procurement procedures and the procurement and
disbursement arrangements.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
GoL initially requested IDA support for a full-fledged follow up Private Sector Development project. This
request was subsequently modified in favor of a project focused on addressing constraints in the utilities
sectors, in response to feedback obtained from the private sector. GoL's private sector development
strategy is expected to meet with better success once the business infrastructure is in place. Also, the LTC
and LEC privatizations are highly visible operations which will set the tone for future intemational private
sector interest in Lesotho. Support for regulatory bodies has been included since utility regulation is a new
area in Lesotho and requires some initial startup support.
Once the decision was made to focus on utilities, the project design at first included water as well as
electricity. However, given the complex issues related to the sources of supply for water in the lowlands,
water issues were dropped from the project. Water sector issues and the possibility of private sector
involvement in urban water supply are the subject of a separate project under preparation.
Several privatization options for LEC were considered following a study tour to Cote d'Ivoire and
workshops on privatization, which were attended by the key players in the sector. Among others, a
management contract for LEC was considered but it was felt that, since it would not result in private
capital flows into the utility and it would not necessarily address the issue of operational efficiency, it was
not the desired form of privatization for LEC. It was then concluded by GoL that a concession contract
was the best option of privatizing the corporation, because private capital investments and managerial and
operational efficiency were assured under this strategy. However, after further consultations, it was
decided that the sustainability of a concession in the medium to long term was doubtful. The final
conclusion was therefore to privatize the corporation through the sale of majority shares to a strategic
investor. However, it was realized that, prior to the outright sale of the corporation, it was necessary to
improve the corporation's operating efficiency and financial status to enhance its marketability to investors.
Also, in particular, it was necessary to generate some current financial information since this was lacking.
To effect this, it was further decided that interim management should be engaged for LEC on a
performance-based contract.
- 19 -



As noted, since there is limited information available on LEC's potential to generate cash flows, and
therefore to assign a fair market value to the shares proposed for sale, it was also felt that the introduction
of an Interm Management Task Force (IMTF) operating under performance targets, and with reporting
obligations to the LEC Board, would be the right way to proceed. The IMTF would bring financial,
technical, operational and managerial efficiency to LEC, and would also generate valuable information that
would allow the sales advisory group to maximize the value of LEC (based on future cash flows, rather
than the sale of LEC's meagre existing assets). The IMTF would, in addition, be responsible for carrying
out the study to define the service territory.
The staff streamlining of LEC was also carefully considered. Given the low-key manner in which LTC
staff retrenchments had taken place, and the fact that they were financed internally as part of LTC's
financial workout, gave rise to a view in government that LEC redeployed staff should not be given
preferential treatment. On the other hand, it was felt that the downsizing issue should be dealt with before
marketing LEC to a potential strategic partner. Therefore, LEC staff retrenchment payments could not be
sourced from the sales proceeds. If the retrenchment exercise were not handled carefully, it could prove to
be an obstacle for the future of Lesotho's remaining privatization agenda. Finally it was decided that in
keeping with the Bank's safeguard policies, the retrenchment exercise would be handled in a comprehensive
manner, with severance payments (to be financed by GoL from LEC revenues) accompanied by
Bank-supported counseling and training for departing LEC staff. A proactive communications policy
would also be used for internal communications, in order to limit the threat of potential sabotage by
disgruntled staff who could undermine the performance of the IMTF. Staff remaining at LEC during the
IMTF management period will be encouraged to take advantage of training programs and improve their
experience and efficiency so as to increase the probability of their being retained by the future strategic
investor.
Finally, the Electricity Access Pilots component came about with the realization that it would be unrealistic
to require the private sector strategic investor to expand the network sufficiently to provide electricity
access to much of the country. Given the mountainous terrain and the sparsely populated settlements in
rural areas, it would be financially unviable for a private investor to venture outside of a well-defined
"service territory". Conversely, if the investor were required to use his private capital to provide electricity
to all parts of the country, it would be an extremely high cost solution and possibly unaffordable for the
consumers in question. A pilot plan is under discussion, which is in line with international experience on
costs to connect 3,000 additional customers to grid extensions outside the service territory, and a further
total of 1,000 customers in five pilot villages based on off-grid arrangements. At the government's request,
it was also agreed that the design and implementation of the Electricity Access Pilot scheme would be
flexible enough to accommodate rural telephony investments wherever possible, in order to provide access
to adequate business infrastructure to allow for income generation in rural areas.
The project will therefore identify the five proposed pilot communities outside the service territory, once it
is defined by IMTF, as well as the locations which lend themselves most efficiently to low-cost technology
extension of the grid, and cover approximately 3,000 additional connections. Clearly, the service territory
itself is considered commercially attractive and will be "reserved" for the private strategic investor to make
investments in the expansion of the network. In these pilot communities which would otherwise remain
unserved, the project will support the development of alternative institutional arrangements to seek to
attract private resources and local management. It is understood that concessional donor funding may be
used to offset part of the development costs and the initial setup costs in such areas, with subsequent
transfer of responsibility to the local private sector. Appropriate institutional mechanisms will be explored
- 20 -



in this context. The other item of emphasis with the Electricity Access Pilots is to ensure that the arrival of
electricity to a previously unserved area is accompanied by the development of some income generating
opportunities. The project will explore possibilities of linking the two in the pilot areas. While electricity
access will be the primary criterion for selecting pilot areas, they will be eligible for rural telephony
investments as well; this matter will be addressed during the consultancy and design phase of the pilots.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
The two most relevant related projects are the PPSD Project (closed in December 2000) and the completed
Industry and Agro-Industry Development Project. The objective of the PPSD Project was to launch and
support GoL's privatization program, and strengthen private sector development aspects such as
entrepreneurship training. The objective of the Industry and Agro-Industry Development Project was to
encourage foreign private and indigenous investment in the industrial and agro-industries sector.
Latest Supeision
Sector Issue   .         P~rojc                   (kpS) Ratingls
(at-finncd poeclsonily)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Privatization of state-owned banks,    Privatization and Private Sector  S         S
food industiy, airline, construction,    Development Project
tourism, pharmaceutical and vehicle
rental companies
U             U
Private Sector Development,       Industry and Agro-Industry
microfinance, employment generation  Development Project
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 21 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Intemational/regional experience on privatization and sector reform indicate the following best practice
features: First, government commitment to and leadership of the privatization and sector reform programs
are essential to success; the project should be supporting implementation of reforms that have been
developed with broad stakeholder consultation and where the agreements are contained in sector policy
statements and laws. In particular, previous experience in the early stage of the ongoing privatization
programn included very close monitoring by Cabinet of the day to day aspects of divestiture, even of small
and non-strategic companies. This was manifested by a need to obtain Cabinet approval at every step, and
resulted in delays and loss of investor interest. This leads to the next conclusion. Second, leadership and a
strong privatization agency, with skilled staff empowered with appropriate authority to carry out the
process, is needed. Third, there is a need to ensure the availability of resources to address the social cost of
reform by securing adequate govemment funding of severance packages for employees made redundant as
a result of privatization. Fourth, there is a need to ensure a consistent approach across sector reform and
privatization processes, and to streamline and simplify procedures for relatively small disinvestment
transactions. Fifth, there is a need to increase local community awareness of and support for the program
through an effective communication strategy before changes start taking place. This includes
communication of a clear vision for the privatization process so that the program's impact on resolving
economic growth constraints is understood and maximized. Sixth, efforts should be made to increase the
confidence of the investor community (both foreign and local) through the establishment of improved and
more transparent procedures, clearly delineating the roles of political and technical decision makers in the
privatization process. Seventh, GoL needs to minimize restrictions on investment qualifications in order to
maximize competition and if possible, encourage local participation in the program.
Implementation of the ongoing privatization project indicates that: (i) there is now local ownership of the
privatization process and that therefore the likelihood of sustainability is relatively high. With capacity
built in the Privatization Unit, GoL has some capacity required to initiate follow up on future work in
privatization; and (ii) timely availability of resources is critical. To ensure that resources are available to
meet the tight deadlines that GoL has now imposed for the process to fit its own timetable and also that of
the Fund-monitored program, a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) has been requested by GoL. This will
be used to engage the IMTF, to launch a government communications program for LEC staff, to undertake
key study tours and to engage regulatory and other technical advisors to support relevant cabinet-level
decisionmakers.
Rural Electrification: Grid-based rural electrification executed by state-owned power utilities, together with
a uniform national tariff to cross-subsidize consumers, has been common in the Bank's client countries.
This approach rarely delivers any significant development impact. The utility is often reluctant to connect
a significant number of household customers because it would increase its administrative costs. One of the
key lessons is that it is best to encourage community participation and shift to commercially oriented
schemes. The standards and technologies utilized for urban electrification are inappropriate for rural
conditions.
The Implementation Completion Report of the Industry and Agro-Industry Development Project (Credit
No. 21 95-LS) explicitly states, under Key Lessons Learned, that today, reform priorities to support this
type of project would focus on private participation in infrastructure, implementing the necessary reforms
to address constraints in infrastructure (power, telecommunications, water, etc.), and building the capacity
of firms. Performance-monitoring indicators were not included and the project did not establish an
adequate counterpart for overall project coordination and supervision, all of which contributed to the
project's "unsatisfactory" rating.
- 22 -



Lessons Reflected: The proposed operation will be the first one in Lesotho entirely dedicated to utilities
sector reform. Key lessons learned and reflected from similar Bank supported operations in other countries
include: (a) the need for full commitment to the process at the highest levels of government, and the
appropriate delegation of authority to the implementing agency; (b) the introduction of policy and
regulatory reforms to promote competition and protect consumer welfare prior to the privatization
transaction; (c) the establishment of a coordination mechanism within government to ensure consistency
and coherence, particularly when dealing with potential foreign investors, and to carry out project
monitoring and financial management; (d) an efficient government procurement mechanism to ensure that
the work is done in a timely manner in compliance with IDA procedures. The long term success of the
divestiture program will depend greatly on the establishment of an appropriate regulatory framework in the
respective sectors. Also, on rural electrification, lower-cost technical standards and operational
procedures that have already been tested and found acceptable in other places, will be introduced. The
combination of rural electrification and rural telephony in selected pilot sites is an innovation intended to
support accompanying income generation activities and could, if designed with adequate stakeholder
participation, set a new standard for best practice.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Significant actions have been taken to restructure both telecommunications and electricity. The
consolidation of LTC privatization (majority shares were transferred in early 2001) is expected to be
completed by end-December 2001. A Telecommunications Regulatory Authority has been established; key
staff have already been identified.
On electricity, the process of tuming over LEC to private management has been launched. The
international selection of the IMTF is complete, and the team has been managing LEC since February
2001. The tender process for selecting the Sales Advisory Group is underway, since the invitation to
express interest has been issued and a short-list formed. The primary role of the Sales Advisory Group is
to conclude the privatization transaction in its role as advisor to GoL.
GoL has indicated, in a Power Sector Policy Letter provided to the Bank, that it proposes to sell a majority
of LEC shares to a qualified strategic investor.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank is uniquely placed to assist the GoL in the provision of this support, given its: (a) international
experience in the process of regulatory reform in promoting private sector participation in the
telecommunications and electricity sectors, and in the setting up of the accompanying legal and institutioinal
regulatory framework; (b) regional role, particularly through the Southern African Development
Community (SADC) in working in concert with other donors to ensure that national reforms in the
electricity and telecoms sectors, are in harmony with broader regional objectives; and (c) international and
on-going Lesotho specific privatization experience.
From the Borrower's point of view, the Bank performs a number of functions that other players cannot
replicate:
(a)    The Bank's presence in the privatization transaction gives comfort to a broad range of private
potential investors/utilities operators, who would otherwise not participate in the bidding process for GoL
assets. By bringing our credibility to the process, we ensure that GoL benefits to the maximum extent by
increasing competition and the number of bids.
- 23 -



(b)    The Bank, based on its accumulated knowledge, is uniquely able to add the Electricity and
Telephone Access Pilots dimension to the proposed privatization project, and can draw on international
best practices to discuss with GoL which innovative strategies may potentially succeed in bringing
electricity and telephone coverage to underserved areas. In addition, the Bank is able to incorporate a
possible income generation dimension to this pilot project.
(c)    The Bank is able to design and finance comprehensive retrenchment-support packages, i.e.,
accompanying features of the govemment's cash payout (counseling, FHV/AIDS awareness programs,
training and monitoring and evaluation of the retrenchment process) in the context of LEC downsizing.
This is likely to make the streamlining process more smooth and pave the way for a successful outcome of
the IMTF contract, as well as increasing confidence among workers in other soon-to-be privatized
companies.
(d)    The Bank is able to design and implement a workable solution for Lesotho in order to ensure a
vehicle for local participation in the shareholding of privatized utility shares, in the form of a Warehousing
Facility for the Investment Fund.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$39.8 million; ERR = 23.1 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
C Other (specify)
The economic benefits in the cost-benefit analysis were measured through: (a) benefits from newly created
employment opportunities in the private sector. The GOL employs only 15.5 percent of formal sector
employment while the Private Enterprise sector employs a mere 3.4 percent of the formal sector
employment (1995). With privatization, the domestic private sector employment share is expected to
increase further from 29.6 percent of the formal sector to about 35 percent in 5 years as the public
enterprise sector shrinks by 32 percent. Moreover, with the newly created jobs which are expected to
increase at an average of 3.2 percent per annum; (b) benefits from productivity and output in privatized
enterprise as gains are expected from higher total factor productivity, resulting from expected changes in
work ethics, training, better management, better equipment and new technology, as well as job-loss savings
generated by PE restructuring. This has been measured through changes in cost of providing the services
to each customer in telecommunication and electricity. The increases in number of lines from 15,000 to
50,000 requires a high rate of backlog reduction, approximately, 20 - 30 percent per annum. The current
operating efficiency rate is in LEC is low at 33 customers per employee, even with the retrenchment of 40
percent of the labor force, the rate remains low at 34 customers per employee. With privatization, this ratio
is expected to improve due to increases in coverage by 25 percent to 20,000 customers and the operating
efficiency ratio will improve to 50 customers per employee by year 2005 by additional job creation;
reduction of factor costs by a percentage of increased performance; and (c) consumer surplus through gains
in price and tariff. The benefits to the consumer are expected in the form of adjusted price/tariffs and
improved service quality, increased access and wider coverage due to competition and private sector
involvement. It is estimated that by the end of project, there will be 1,250 public pay phones compared to
125 that are currently available. With privatization the capacity and number of telephone main lines
connected have increased from its 1997 level of 15,000, to 28,000, in 1999, and estimated to 50,000 in
2005.
- 24 -



The economical costs included project loan, co-financing from ADB and government's contribution. The
cost benefit analysis showed that the project is economically feasible, as indicated by NPV of $39.8 million
equivalent (using 12 percent discount rate) and ERR of 23.1 percent. Sensitivity analysis revealed that the
project is robust even when key assumptions deteriorate, giving a low probability of the NPV being
negative. Moreover, the project has a positive impact on government finances. This is in the form of
reduced subsidies to PE of $13.7 million and gains in corporate and other taxes of US $10.8 million over a
period of 15 years.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
A detailed financial analysis of LEC, and the factors underlying Lesotho's high cost electricity service, is
provided in Annex 5. Financial analysis of LTC has been undertaken by consultants in 1998/1999
financed by the PPSD project, and the conclusions of this analysis have been used to carry out the
privatization process which is expected to be completed by December 2001.
Fiscal Impact:
The reform program is expected to have significant positive impact on the fiscal resources of Lesotho.
Fiscal transfers to LTC have already ceased, and it is expected that Government transfers to LEC will be
phased out by Year 3 of the project, prior to divestiture. The budgetary transfers to Muela remain an issue
and are expected to be addressed by implementing the recommendations of the consultant's study which will
be part of this project. The issue of transfers to Muela will have to be addressed prior to the preparation of
the Information Memorandum by the Sales Advisory Group, so that private investors are informed about
the conditions under which LEC is being offered for sale.
3. Technical:
The project is technically sound and has been designed taking best practices into account. Within the CAS
agenda of promoting broad-based private sector-led growth, the project would help increase the scope of
private sector activity through support of: (a) privatization in key economic sectors (electricity and
telecommunications); (b) liberalization of utilities sector to promote new services and reduce transaction
costs. Design of project components took into account lessons leamed from previous operations in
Lesotho, notably the ongoing PPSD project and the completed Industry and Agro-Industrial Development
project. Of particular note on experiences of the ongoing privatization program is the need: (a) to take a
comprehensive sectoral approach in promoting increased PSP in basic infrastructure and avoid focusing
actions on simply resolving problems at the enterprise/operations level; and (b) ensure local private
participation (through outsourcing of non-core activities, for example) and local ownership of the process
through the viable instruments (i.e., investment funds) that allow for indigenous private sector development
and participation in the privatization program.
LEC restructuring: Extensive technical support (e.g. recruitment of the IMTF, appointment of sales
advisory group), will be provided to confirm the feasibility and scope of the proposed private sector
participation (PSP) and divestiture arrangements. Project design was govemed by the need to tawget the
best mix of public/private support in the delivery of utilities, given the small size of the country/market and
regional initiatives (based on previous country experience in Bolivia and Cote d'Ivoire).
Detailed cost analysis is required on the basis for capital-cost savings in the distribution grid systems. A
change in technical standards will permit the rate of investment to match the growth in demand.
- 25 -



4. Institutional:
The Government has appointed a Cabinet Subcommittee on Economic Reform, which is advised by a
Technical Committee on issues related to utility sector reforms. In the context of a Fund-monitored
program for the period January to September 2000, GoL has agreed to address the crisis in the electricity
sector, and in particular to put in place measures that will reverse the fiscal burden resulting from subsidies
to cover losses made by LEC.
Steering Committee: The proposed project requires inputs from the Ministry of Natural Resources and the
Ministry of Communications, as well as the Ministry of Finance which is concerned with the budgetary
implications of sector reform. The Ministry of Natural Resources is the supervising ministry for LEC and
electricity issues, including Muela and the regulatory agency. The Ministry of Communications is the
primary interlocutor for the Telecommunications Regulatory Authority and intemet connectivity issues.
The Ministry of Industry, Trade and Marketing is also an interested stakeholder, in terms of private sector
response and feedback on the shortfalls in business infrastructure to date. In particular, the Ministry of
Trade, Industry and Marketing has been instrumental in raising the Intemet Connectivity issue from the
start, pointing out that it is an essential element of business infrastructure. All four Ministries are
represented on the Technical Committee. The Principal Secretary (PS) of Finance is the Chair of the
Technical Committee and the Minister of Finance chairs the Cabinet Subcommittee on Economic Reform.
The Technical Committee is the advisory body which recommends the course of action to the Cabinet
Subcommittee. The Cabinet Subcommittee takes the sector policy decisions.
Regarding the electricity access pilots, the assessment will need to ensure that the legal framework allows
for cost-based tariffs to fully cover operating, maintenance and subsequent expansion costs as well as
depreciation charges.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The components will be implemented by the PU which is linked to the Ministry of Finance, and will
manage all contracting under the project. PU will manage the privatization of both utilities, and
establishment of the Investment Fund, in coordination with ministries of Natural Resources,
Communications and the Central Bank of Lesotho.
4.2 Project management:
The PU will be responsible for managing the program. The PU will also ensure financial consolidation and
project monitoring in addition to ensuring coherence with sector strategies. It will also be in charge of
harmonizing procedures: accounting, reporting systems.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The PU will be the coordinating and responsible agent for all procurement funded by the project. It will
handle the procurement requests of each implementing agency according to monthly procurement schedules
submitted to it. It has staff who are fully familiar with Bank procurement procedures as they have had
prior experience under the Privatization and Private Sector Development Project. A Procurement Action
Plan will be developed by the PU and will be incorporated in the Project Implementation Plan.
This project has attracted the interest of other donors (African Development Bank, EU) supporting
privatization and private sector development initiatives in the country. It is expected that the donors
co-financing this project would agree on the common thresholds for procurement under the different
procurement methods, the use of pre- and post-review, standard documents and procedures for advertising,
evaluating and awarding the contracts, and reporting formats.
- 26 -



4.4 Financial management issues:
A private accounting firn has been hired to design administrative and accounting procedures, produce the
operation manual and train the accounting staff at the PU. A detailed Draft Financial Management Action
Plan is Provided as Annex 6D.
A Financial Management Committee has been established and will be responsible for the overall policy
guidance of the project's financial management. The project will be implemented by the PU and Ministry of
Finance (MoF), in collaboration with relevant line Ministries. Under the supervision of the Director, the
(PASPU) would be responsible for ensuring that financial management, procurement and repoiting
procedures will be acceptable to the Government, IDA, and other participating donor agencies.
Monitoring reports that will be provided on a quarterly basis include: (a) financial statements documenting
the sources and uses of funds by loan category and by project activity, forecasting expenditure,
disbursement amount and reconciliation of the special account, and summarizing credit withdrawals using
statement of expenditures; (b) project progress reports providing infoimation on project implementation
progress in physical and financial terms and covering monitoring indicators including deviations from plan
and reasons thereof, and (c) procurement management reports indicating the status of procurement and
contract commitments and expenditure.
In compliance with the Development Credit Agreement, the government will submit audited financial
statements to IDA within about six months after the year end. In addition to the audit report, the auditor
will be required to prepare a separate Management Letter giving observations and comments, and providing
recommendations for improvements of accounting records, systems, controls and compliance with financial
covenants.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
In compliance with the government's Environmental Assessment (EA), an environmental analysis was
conducted to ensure that potential environmental and social impacts are addressed and mitigated
appropriately. The review team was comprised of LEC officials and consultants. The team noted that the
only aspect of the project that is of some environmental concem is the rural and urban hookups and related
activities. The assessment also covered central handling, storage and maintenance of materials and
equipment required to carry out the hookups. Since specific individual properties to receive connections
have not been identified, the review was treated generically and a focus given to the general and significant
environmental problems faced by the country, i.e., pollution, soil erosion, and impact on vulnerable species.
The Environment Assessment report (EA) identified a number of potential biophysical impacts such soil
erosion and loss of biodiversity, as well as several socio-economic impacts such as property damage,
occupational hazards and injuries, and disturbance of agricultural land. At the same time, the EA report
identifies direct impacts, cause and effect of impacts, level of significance, practical mitigation measures,
and residual impacts. A list of good practices provides additional information on mitigative measures.
The EAR concludes that while potential impacts are few and for the most part not significant, repetition of
- 27 -



seemingly insignificant impacts at numerous sites can lead to significant cumulative impacts if left
unattended. For example, a very small quantity of litter at one connection site (i.e., a small piece of surplus
and non-useable wire) is of no consequence. However, when multiplied at 7,000 sites, this would result in a
more significant litter impact over the area. Similarly, a small loss of lubricant at one site, multiplied over
an area sharing a common groundwater supply, could result in a highly significant impact on the
groundwater source.
As regards residual impacts, these are considered to be minor if mitigation measures as outlined are
effective. Minor residual impacts will relate to aesthetics and health. Thus, pole placement and a landscape
of wires where none were before may be considered a lessening of aesthetics. As regards health, it is
considered unlikely that children will ingest any of the creosote used to treat the poles; but if it happens,
sickness could occur.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The main features of the EMP include (i) mitigative measures, institutional responsibilities, scheduling, and
costs for their implementation; (ii) appointment of an environmental officer who will be responsible for
monitoring the EMP; and (iii) environmental training. Environmental training for the environmental officer
will include courses on environmental management, environmental assessment, and environmental
monitoring. Such courses should be at the introductory level, given that anyone designated as
environmental officer will probably be recruited from within the organization and will have little or no
background in the social and biophysical sciences. It is furthermore recommended that the environmental
training component include an environmental awareness workshop for the environmental officer as well as
a number of field staff who will be dealing with the environmental issues described in the EA report. Such
an awareness course should be extended to management staff as well.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Received August 16, 2000
A report titled "Environmental Review of the Utilities Sector Reform Project" was commissioned in June
2000. The report details the actions related to the EMP, in particular the scheduling of activities, the
institutional and financial arrangements for the execution of the plan. The final report was submitted to the
Bank on August 16, 2000.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Due to the generally benign environmental nature of the project, no stakeholders, with the exception of the
planning department of the LEC, have been involved in the undertaking of this environmental analysis.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The project will be monitored on a regular basis to ensure that the environment
management plan is implemented effectively. The environment officer will be trained and
will be responsible for systematically and regularly carrying out this function. A detailed
monitoring plan and procedure will be developed during the monitoring training course.
An environmental management report will be provided to management on a semi-annual
basis.
- 28 -



6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
To alleviate the hardship associated with retrenchment programs, the social cost of the privatization
process will be addressed through the availability of resources under the proposed credit to fund
communication programs and counseling for redundant employees, and to provide them with training for
alternative opportunities. The project will finance (i) assistance including early and sustained
communication to LEC workers on the subject of retrenchment and restructuring, as well as (ii) counseling
and retraining. All ernployees will be interviewed by a tearn of counselors and will prepare their
assessment of their own achievements and capabilities. The idea is to provide assistance to those who want
it either for training in developing their entrepreneurial skills or retraining those who are job seekers. The
program intends to finance, upon request by the retrenched, a scheme to assist entrepreneurs to develop
their projects. This would include (a) specific retraining at the beginning, including assistance for the
preparation of a business plan, and (b) monitoring during the first two years following implementation.
There will also be a tracer study to assess the well-being of retrenched employees. All key stakeholders,
including workers and labor unions, will be consulted on the design of the retrenchment program.
Wherever possible, workers will be retrained to be able to participate as private contractors in any
activities which will be outsourced by LEC.
Other social impacts: the project will increase access to electrical energy by a larger proportion of the
population - through private management of the existing distressed operator, and increased competition in
the sector - and will result in savings from the substitution of electricity in end-users, which typically
currently depend on kerosene, candles, and batteries, and will make possible increased economic activity.
The project has an explicit component to address the needs of consumers that are likely to remain unserved
by the private sector. On a pilot basis, the project will explore, through consultative mechanisms, how best
to provide electricity and telephone access to such consumers on a sustainable basis, and furthermore, to
convert the arrival of electricity and telephone service into an income generating opportunity as well.
However, some uncertainty remains about the willingness of communities to accept commercially-oriented
rural electrification schemes. This is mainly because their tariffs would be expected to be higher than
LEC's average tariff, and also because of the heavy responsibility associated with the formation of a
cooperative distribution business. These issues would be addressed by discussing them with the
communities identified for the electrification program. The criteria used to select the pilot communities will
depend on the findings of the Electricity Access Study. Once the pilot communities are identified, they will
be evaluated for telephone access as well, on a selective basis.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The GoL counterpart team to draft the electricity legislation is a multi-ministry, cross-disciplinary team
reflecting the interests of key stakeholders: Finance, Natural Resources, PU and Attomey General's Office.
Extensive consultation with a wider group of stakeholders has taken place in workshops organized by the
intemational consultants who were engaged to prepare the first draft of the legislation. Inputs have been
systematically gathered, including from the Ministry of Local Govemment, and are now being incorporated
in the final Electricity Bill which will be submitted for Cabinet approval by October 2000. During project
implementation, following the definition of the service territory to be controlled by the private investor,
rural stakeholders will be extensively consulted with respect to the design of the electricity access pilot
components.
Labor unions and other associations representing the interests of retrenched LEC employees will be
-29 -



consulted with respect to the design of the retrenchment program. Key labor representatives will also be
consulted, to the extent possible, regarding the design of the internal communications program for LEC
staff.
The Investmnent Fund is another mechanism by which key stakeholders, i.e., local private sector, including
local institutional investors, will be participating in GoL's privatization process. The Unit Trust has been
designed as a mechanism to offer local investors the possibility of shareholding in privatized enterprises.
The credit will finance extensive communication programs from LEC to its customer base, to explain the
process of privatization, the role of the strategic investor and the electricity access pilot program to lay out
a vision of how coverage will be improved nationwide. At the same time, potential income generating
opportunities and other aspects of rural development that can be helped by improved utilities coverage will
be included in the communications campaign as part of GoL's private sector development effort. It is
intended to have a participatory element to the communications and outreach efforts which will be
supported under the project, in order to enable the participation of as many stakeholders as possible.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs will be actively involved in the design and implementation of the electricity access pilots and the
accompanying income generation activities that will be supported together with access to electricity.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The IMTF will have a human resource manager and other support specialists in the area of human resource
restructuring, who are expected to take a professional approach to designing and implementing the human
resource restructuring/retrenchment program.
Additional consultancy assistance will be available to GoL to design and implement the comprehensive
monitoring and evaluation of the downsizing program, in addition to carrying out the task of counseling and
training both retrenched and retained employees.
6.5 How will the project monitor perfornance in terms of social development outcomes?
There will be a tracer study to assess the well-being of the retrenched employees.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     O Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  O Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              O Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
- 30 -



A report titled " Environmental Review of the Utilities Sector Reform Project " was commissioned and
prepared (June 2000) which detailed the EMP and actions related to that plan. The plan clearly indicates
the scheduling of activities, the institutional and financial arrangements for execution of the plan. The
project will fund: (i) enviromnental training of LEC's Enviromnental Officer in environmental assessment
and management; (ii) organize an environmental awareness workshop with the objective of enhancing the
awareness of field staff as well as the senior management of LEC. To ensure compliance with the Bank's
safeguard policies and meet the Government of Lesotho's environmental requirements, the implementation
of the Environmental Mitigation Plan will be closely monitored by LEC's Environmental Officer. The
Monitoring Plan will be prepared during the training course, and an environmental management report will
be provided to the government and the Bank on a semi-annual basis for their review and advice.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
It is expected that the utilities sector will be liberalized with several operators participating in different
segments of the market. The reforms are not easily reversible.
The project will make an investment in the improved financial and operational performance of LEC and
LTC. This project has the short term objectives of reversing the fiscal drain and attracting a private sector,
strategic investor to LEC (LTC already has a strategic investor). Future issues, such as how to best
expand the coverage of electricity services in urban and rural areas of the country by attracting private
capital, will become clearer once the dialogue with potential strategic investors is underway. The "do
nothing" altemative, or a reversal of the reforms by GoL is not considered to be feasible at this stage, given
the fiscal drain imposed on GoL, by remaining involved in these sectors.
The regulatory framework and the regulatory authority that will be put in place by the proposed project is
also a sustainable entity, and will be provided with the required training and capacity building inputs. An
intemationally recruited regulatory advisor will also be available to ensure that adequate capacity building
and support are provided, as needed, to ensure sustainability following completion of the project. Finally,
the project will finance the costs of running the regulatory agency for three years, or at least until there is
assurance that operating costs can be met from license fees, etc.
An evaluation will be carried out before the end of the project, conceming the advisability of merging the
various regulatory agencies into a single multi-sectoral regulator. Depending on the outcome of the
evaluation, a Consolidating Act may be passed in future to unify the electricity and telecommunications
regulators; it would also keep a provision to accommodate a future water sector regulator. If this is done, it
will further serve to make the reforms irreversible.
- 31 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
From Outputs to Objective
Political situation may deteriorate        M
There may be a change in government        M        Awareness meetings with new Cabinet
that may reduce commitment because of               sub-Committee on Economic Reform; regular
the entry of new decision makers who                involvement of Country Director,
question the approach being followed here           macroeconomist, project team
Weak private sector response to sector     M        Well-structured project design; well-designed
liberalization; lack of foreign investor            retrenchment program; effective
interest, in which case the sector cannot           communications strategy
be privatized
Lack of capacity to deliver on regulatory  M        Support capacity building and institutional
framework                                           development of all relevant agencies, e.g.
Ministry of Natural Resources, provide Utility
Advisor to LEC Board, support multi-sectoral
regulator with advisor for two years
Lack of domestic private sector interest,  M        Extensive consultation and the introduction of
particularly in supporting the electricity          guarantee mechanisms to reduce risk
access pilots
Foreign investors' perceptions about the   M        Provide access to information for all key
attractiveness of investing in LEC may be           decisionmakers, and support the
linked to decentralization, SADC issues             communications campaign of the utilities
or restructuring of the South African               privatization program
power sector
From Components to Outputs
Speed of execution of transactions could  M         Institutional Capacity Building for the Project
be reduced by lack of capacity in                   Implementation Unit, the Ministry of Natural
Implementation Unit, or inefficient                 Resources, the Ministry of Communications,
institutional framework leading to lack of          and the Multi-Sector Regulator financed by the
coordination between LEC and IMTF                   Project. Recruitment of Technical Advisor to
LEC Board who will ensure coordination
between IMTF and LEC
Timely availability of counterpart funds  M         Counterpart contributions are mostly in-kind,
and are already in place. Others involving cash
outlays have been budgeted for
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 32 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The retrenchment program to be supported as part of LEC streamlining, but not to be financed by the
Bank, is possibly the most controversial aspect of this project. It is not a donor-financed component, but it
is indeed a design component that will be financed by govemment resources as represented by LEC
revenues. However, there are clear government policy guidelines in place, related to retrenchment in the
course of privatization. These will be followed by the IMTF during implementation of the streanlining
progran. Furthermore, there is also a recognition that 95 percent of the population still needs to be
connected to electricity service, and that measures must be undertaken to keep any scarce skilled labor
resources in the country, particularly with any kind of expertise in the electricity sector. To this end, a
comprehensive dimension of counseling and training will be included as part of the retrenchment program
and a monitoring and evaluation system will be set up to track the welfare of retrenched employees. An
intensive communications effort will be undertaken at the earliest opportunity to alleviate workers' anxieties
with respect to the retrenchment program, and all concemed stakeholders will be consulted to the extent
possible regarding the design of the retrenchment package.
Another possible controversial item is the issue of privatization itself. This risk is mitigated however, by
the fact that the government's program has been ongoing for the past five years, and that vehicles now exist
for local participation in privatized companies' shareholding. There is less of a risk, therefore, that
privatization is automatically interpreted as selling national assets to foreigners. Again, this risk will be
addressed by launching a strong communications campaign regarding LEC privatization to the public in
general that will be carried out by the Sales Advisory Group.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The following events are specified as conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)    The African Development Bank Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder,
except only the Development Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(b)    the Borrower has adopted the PIP in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Agreed Covenants
(a)    The Borrower shall, no later than June 30, 2003, establish and thereafter maintain LEC with
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Association and with staff in adequate numbers, whose
qualifications and experience shall at all times be satisfactory to the Association;
(b)    The Borrower shall enter into contractual arrangements acceptable to the Association, with a
technical operator whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the Association. The said
contractual arrangements shall provide, inter alia, that full managerial autonomy for the conduct of LEC's
day to day operations shall be vested with qualified experts and staff working directly under the
responsibility and control of the technical operator;
- 33 -



(c)    The Borrower shall implement Part B, C, D and E of the project, as defined in the Development
Credit Agreement, in accordance with the procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria as set forth in the
PIP and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any
provision of said PIP if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and
adversely affect the implementation of the project;
(d     The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the performance indicators set forth in Schedule 6 of the
Development Credit Agreement and re-stated below, the carrying out of the project and to fulfill the annual
reporting obligations to the Association;
(e)    Not later than November 30, 2003, or such other date as the Borrower and the Association shall
agree upon, the Borrower and LEC and the Association shall carry out a mid-term review;
(f)    The Borrower shall carry out studies to expand the development of the Private Sector, and not later
than
June 30, 2003, shall submit the results and recommendations of the said studies to the Association
for its review
and comments;
(g)    The Borrower shall establish the Unit Trust and the warehousing facility not later than March 31,
2002,
and promptly thereafter shall take all measures required on its part to implement the said financial
mechanisms.
(h)    LEC shall implement Part A of the project, as defined in the Development Credit Agreement, in
accordance with the procedures, guidelines and timetables set forth in the PIP;
(i)    LEC shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate, on an
ongoing basis, in accordance with the performance indicators set forth in Schedule 2 of the Project
Agreement, the carrying out of the project and shall fumish annual reports to the Association;
(j)    LEC shall (a) design the LEC reform program and the LEC staff redeployment plan referred to
under Part A of the project as defined in the Project Agreement, not later than May 31, 2001; and (b)
promptly thereafter take all measures required on its part, to implement the said programs.
Agreed Performance Indicators
The Borrower shall, from time to time, review jointly with the Association and LEC, the progress achieved
in the execution of the project inter alia through the following performance indicators:
1.    The majority of LEC capital stock is held by a private sector investor by not later than December
31, 2002;
2.     By December 31, 2002, no further subsidies are made by the Borrower with a view to sustaining
LEC current operations;
3.    The Unit Trust and warehousing facility have been established and by June 30, 2003, at least 200
- 34 -



local investors have invested under the said mechanism;
4.    By July 31, 2002, the LEC streamlining and downsizing program has been completed as defined in
Schedule 6 of the Development Credit Agreement;
5.    By December 31, 2004, the efficiency ratio in Tele-Communications Lesotho (TCL) stands at one
employee per 100 telephonic lines;
6.    By July 31, 2001, LEC shall have increased its rate of revenue collection to 85% of outstanding
bills; and (b) by December 31, 2001, the said rate of revenue collection shall have been increased and
thereafter maintained at 95% of outstanding bills;
7.    By December 31, 2002, TCL shall have connected 25,000 users to the telephonic network; and (b)
by December 31, 2004, 15,000 additional users shall have been connected to the said network;
8.    By July 31, 2002, a total of 8,000 additional new users shall have been connected to the electricity
grid by LEC.
Remedies of the Association
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)    A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part
thereof, will be carried out;
(b)    LEC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)    As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Development Credit Agreement, an
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it inprobable that LEC will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(d)    The contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.06 of the Development Credit Agreement
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without prior approval by the
Association;
(e)    The Electricity Act No. 7 of 1969 of the Borrower shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of LEC to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(f)    The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the AfDB loan or the EU grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the project shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the AfDB Loan Agreement or the EU Grant Agreement, or the AfDB loan
shall have become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
- 35 -



2. Tha p_ oa    d uens fr the s yats  t           wae  mpb     r adyr he ut of
projax inIzem,antleno.t, t
[ 3. T*PrOc IinPlmutsiPlm h             lbenpuisdandod to be rea    nd of sahictoy
quay.
O 4., T   Lowig  insam a g gd mdiscsd uner lon Witlm  (Section 0);
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
C 1. TIs pjct complies wilh aUi spoi=  Bank poiio.
0 2, Th &Uawi ng iceptoula to  aLk p4licie a* ft==Miuded for &Wpmv.L  .he prject complie With
al otihor applcble Bak polic,
-lohua Mnldmujac               lB                          hye2 S. Omar
Tom Loar                          sctor Manager                  couttiy Manager
-360



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
LESOTHO: Utilities Sector Reform Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To promote broad-based,   Annual average GDP growth  National Statistics        Achievement of broad based
private sector-led growth of  rate of 3.5 percent over the                      growth and poverty alleviation
the economy               next five years                                       as a result of existing
programs under the CAS
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
To improve the quality,   1. Complete the installation of Bank mnission reports  No sector policy reversal;
coverage and econouic     8,000 new connections by                              Sufficient foreign investor
efficiency of utility services   IMTF no later than July 31,                   interest to allow successful
under competitive and     2002                                                 divestiture
regulated conditions                                 Surveys of regulatory
2. Define service territory to  agencies, and Annual
be connected by strategic  Regulatory reports
investor according to
timetable in the PIP
To improve financial and    3. Completion of LEC    Annual Report of
operational performance of   privatization no later than    Privatization Unit  Regulatory agencies are not
utilities sector (LTC, LEC)   December 31, 2002, and                            co-opted by special interests
closer to international   consolidation of LTC
standards, and to reduce and  privatization by the same date;
eliminate the need for    and achievement of one
budgetary support to utilities  employee per 100 connections
at LTC by December 31, 2004
4. Budgetary transfers to LEC
reduced to zero, no later than
December 31, 2002
5. Establishment of electricity
regulators no later than June
30, 2003
- 37 -



6. Establish Unit Trust and   Project Progress Reports  Macroeconomic conditions
To promote possibilities for   warehousing facility by no                       will be conducive to private
local ownership in        later than March 31, 2002; by                         sector entities implementing
shareholding of privatized    June 30, 2003 at least 200                        investment / expansion
utilities                 local investors shall have                            programs
invested under the said
mechanism
7. Completion of Muela
commercialization study in
accordance with timetables set
forth in the PIP, and
implementation of
recommendations also in
accordance with the PIP
8. Successful completion of
LEC streamlining program (as
defined in Schedule 6 of the
DCA) by July 31, 2002
9. Additional 25,000 working
telephone lines by December
31, 2002, and a further 15,000
new telephone lines by
December 31, 2004.
10. Additional 8,000 new
electricity connections by July
31, 2002.
- 38 -



Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to ObjectJve)
Component:
A. LTC, LEC Divestiture    Sale of controlling interest in  1. Sale Agreements for LTC   Continued political
and Electricity Expansion   LEC to a strategic investor by and LEC             commitment to privatization
no later than December 31,                           process
2002; and consolidation of  2. Periodic reports from the
Increased telephone and   LTC privatization by the same Privatization Unit     No significant lag in private
electricity coverage and  date;                                                sector response to
improved revenue position of                                                   privatization opportunities
LEC                       Backlog of up to 8,000 new
electricity connections cleared                      Transactions are carried out
and total electricity                                according to the PIP
connections increased at least                       Funding for retrenchment
by up to 20,000 by June 30,                          program made available
2005; telephone connections
Training of remaining and    increased up to 40,000 by  Tracer study on progress of
redeployed workers provided, December 31, 2004       retrenched LEC employees to
and severance packages                               be completed by the end of the GoL remains committed to
delivered. Communication    Number of staff trained under project              implementing the regulatory
campaign conducted        the project and number of                            framework in a manner to
redeployed workers trained                           promote competition and
and received severance                               efficiency
package by end of project,
based on HR restructuring
plan to be provided by IMTF.
B. Regulatory Reform      Sector reforms implemented   Sector refonn policies   GoL maintains efficient entry
and institutional capacity  apprved by Cabinet       and exit policies into utility
Establishment of Electricity  strengthened to regulate                         services markets
and Telecommunications    private participation in   Publication in Official Gazette
Regulators                teleconnnunications and    of new legislation        Regulatory agencies are
electricity;                                         adequately staffed and able to
Annual reports of regulatory   work without interference
agencies                  from vested interests
Project progress reports
Recommendations of        Updated regulations        Consultants' studies
Regulatory Studies
implemented
C. Future of Energy Sector Completion of Muela       Consultants' Report
1. Studies                Commercialization Options
2. Electricity and Telephone  study according to agreed
Access Pilots (institutional   timetable in the PIP, and
mechanisms to deliver     implementation of
electricity and telephone  recommendations also as
service to nral communities  agreed in PIP
that will not be served by the
strategic investor)
- 39 -



Implementation of Electricity  Project Progress Reports  Adequate consultative
and Telephone Access Pilots                          processes with key rual
by June 2005                                         stakeholders can be
implemented, and that there is
sufficient demand from rural
populations to enable the
recovery of operating costs
D. Private Sector
Development
1. Investment Fund        Unit Trust and warehousing   Privatization Unit reports    There is sufficient domestic
facility to be established by                        investor interest and the Unit
March 31, 2002 and at least                          Trust is marketed effectively
200 local investors shall have
invested in the Unit Trust by
June 30, 2003
2. Studies and pilots     Reports outlining strategies to Consultants' Studies  Economic prospects of SADC
encourage regional                                   region remain attractive, so
integration, targetting of high                      that GoL's regional integration
value-added goods that may be                        efforts pay off in terms of
developed as non-traditional                        increased growth and
exports, etc., to be completed                       employment
no later than June 2005
E. Advisory Services and    Adoption of the regulations   Consultants' studies and the   GoL maintains its
Capacity Building         recommended as outputs of   engagement of various     commitment to the
various studies           advisors, provision of training privatization process
to policymakers
F. Support to Project     Delivery of financial      Timely delivery of all key   GoL maintains its
hmplementation Unit and    management procedures and reports                   commitment to the
refinancing of PPF        manuals, retention of key                             privatization process
experienced staff
- 40 -



.9                                                                    .....
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:       (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                          Outputs)
A. LTC, LEC Divestiture                            Quarterly Project Management Effective coordination
and Electricity Expansion                          Reports;                  between LEC and IMTF
Definition of Service    regarding control, autonomy
1. Recruitment of an Interim  $14.3 million        Territory;                and accountability in
Management Task Force                               Electricity Access Study,  management decision making
1.1 Completion of the                              Financial Accounts to be
financial turnaround of LEC,                        given to LEC Board and Sales
including change-over for                           Advisory Team
8,000 credit meters to
pre-payment meters
1.2 Installation of 8,000 new
connections
1.3 Completion of two studies:
Service Territory and
Electricity Access                                                            Government maintains
1.4 Skills audit of LEC labor                                                comnmitmnent to Divestiture
force                                                                        Process
1.5 Design and
implementation of HR
restructuring/downsizing
program at LEC, including
communication program,
developing retrenchment
packages, counseling and
training of retrenched
workers, and tmining of
retained workers
1.6 Developing and
implementing a
communication plan to
internal and external
stakeholders
1.7 Clearing the backlog of
un-audited accounts for the
last five years
1.8 Pmviding the necessary
financial and technical
information required by the
Sales Advisors
-41 -



2. Recruitment of a Sales    $3.6 million            Ongoing dialogue regarding   Severance Packages are
Advisory Group                                       divestiture strategy      designed well enough so thai
2.1 Definition of Divestiture                                                  LEC layoffs do not become a
Strategy, technical advice e.g.                                                political issue
how to treat system control
etc.
2.2 Preparation of Information
Memorandum, and support to
GoL until the privatization
transaction for LEC is
complete
2.3 Communications strategy                          IMTF Progress Report on HR
on three fronts, including                          issues; outputs of monitoring
infonnational needs internal                         and evaluation process of the
to LEC, from LEC to its                              retrenchment program
customer base, and
internationally through at
least two Roadshows to
market LEC to potential
strategic investors       $2.5 million
3. LEC Streanilining
Program
3.1 Counseling and Training
for retrenched workers, and
any additional training of
retained employees that may
be necessary in addition to
what is undertaken by IM1F
3.2 Comprehensive
monitoring and evaluation of
the LEC downsizing program
3.3 A government
communication program on
the LEC restructuring process
- 42 -



B. Regulatory Reform       $5.6 million                                            Timely availability of
counterpart funds and
4.1 Part of the initial                                                            resources, e.g. identification of
establishment cost for LEA                                                        premises, suitable candidates
and some of the running costs                                                      etc.
of LTA and LEA for two
years, to cover any initial
shortfalls after license
revenues are taken into
account.
4.2 long term resident advisor
for two years, for LTA and
LEA, to assist in duties and
ensure transfer of skills
4.3 short term consultants
over two years for advice on
specific operational issues and
to transfer skills
4.4 training programs and
study tours to build regulatory
capacity in the first two years;
4.5 Any additional
requirements of frequency
management and monitoring
equipment to enable LTA to
discharge its statutory duties
4.6 for LEA, finalization of
new regulatory functions and
key procedures for the
regulator to award licences
and concessions to the private
sector.
C. Future of Energy Sector
in Lesotho
5.1 Muela Options Study    $5.01 million               Project Status Reports,     All parties are agreeable to the
5.2 Study on Future of                                delivery of studies         consultants' recommendations
Hydroelectric Power and                                                            on the Muela debt workout
Export Possibilities
5.3 Design and
Implementation of Electricity
(and telephone) Access Pilots
- 43 -



D. Private Sector           $2.04 million              Project Progress Reports    Adequate consultation will be
Development                                                                        possible for the design of rural
6.1 Warehousing                                                                    pilots; no capture of the
Facility/Investment Fund                                                           process by political interests
6.2 Studies on specific private
sector development issues,                             Consultants' reports       Interest shown by local
pilot models for                                                                  investors and mobilization of
entrepreneurship training,                                                         private resources to participate
studies to develop                                                                 in the fund
sector-specific regional
integration strategies                                                             Regional business climate
remains attractive
E. Advisory Services and    $1.32 million              Delivery of consultants'    Climate remains favorable for
Capacity Building                                      reports                     continued work of the
7.1 Ministry of Finance:                                                           Privatization Unit
Advisor and Training
7.2 Ministryof
Communication: Advisor and
Training
7.3 LEC Board: Advisor and                             Study tour reports
Training
7.4 Capacity Building
includes training needs for
selected senior staff at
Ministries of Finance,
Communication and Natural
Resources.
F. Implementation Support      $2.93 million                                       Climate remains favorable for
continued policy refonn
8.1 Contracts of key senior                            Delivery of consultants'
staff at the PU;                                       reports
8.2 Legal, audit, financial and                        Establishment of Financial
other consultancies that will                          Management Committee
be required from time to time;                         (FMC) and delivery of
8.3 Some public awareness                              minutes of FMC's quarterly
costs;                                                 meetings
8.4 Operational costs of PU
within an agreed framework
8.5 PPF Refinancing   $2. 1 milion
- 44 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
LESOTHO: Utilities Sector Reform Project
Introduction
Telecommunications
Sector Overview
Lesotho Telecommunications Sector Overview
Existing Institutional Framework (September 2000)
Category                                   Description
Ministry Responsible for                    MOC
Policy
Regulatory and Licensing                    LTA
Authority
Legislation                                 New Telecommunications Act No 5 2000
to establish LTA and facilitate
restructuring of LTC.
Basic Services including                    LTC
leased lines
National Long Distance                      LTC
Intemational Service                        LTC
Cellular Service                           VCL
Intemet                                     Liberalized
Value Added Services                        Liberalized
Resale & Paging
Radio Spectrum Authority                    LTA
As part of the privatisation transaction LTC will be granted a five year period of exclusivity for basic
service, the underlying infrastructure of these services and leased lines. While this is frequent practice in
such transactions it is also common to grant shorter (or even no) period of exclusivity. However, the
transaction may stimulate competition between the fixed and mobile sectors and within the mobile sector.
VCL is ajoint venture, offering mobile services, between Vodacom of South Africa and the GOL, where
the shareholding of the latter rests with LTC. Vodacom currently holds 88 percent of VCL's equity, that of
LTC having been diluted from 49 percent. One aspect of the transaction is the issuance of a second mobile
license to the strategic investor in LTC and the withdrawal, and possible sale, of the 12 percent held by
LTC in VCL.
- 45 -



Competition is provided for under the Act in non-Basic Services, private services for own use and by the
means of Resale of basic services. As yet, competitive market entry is limited and while the LTA is charged
to promote competition this activity will require some strengthening.
International Comparisons
Table 3 locates the performance of the sector within the regional context. Here, both Botswana and more
particularly South Africa stand out, and with the exception of these countries, the performance of Lesotho
is not particularly different from other countries. But this performance is poor, as noted by the
Telecommunications Policy. The World average penetration rate is over 10 per 100 population but is less
than 1 per 100 in Lesotho. Also of concern are the disparity between penetration rates in urban areas
compared to the overall rate, indicating the low level of service in rural areas, and the very poor
performance for Intemet access. These factors indicate that Lesotho is the wrong side of the "Digital
Divide".
Table 3 Lesotho Telecommunications Performance in the Regional Perspective
Lesotho   Malawi    Moz       Zambia   Zimb          Bots         South Africa
$GDP per   547        242        86        463       712         3252         2979
cap
Mainlines   20.1      37.4       75.4      77.7      212.0       85.6         5075
K
Main lines   0.97     0.35       0.40      0.88      1.72         5.64        11.46
per 100
Waiting     20.0      30.9       19.7      8.0       109.0        11.8         116.2
list K
Public pay   0.15     0.51       0.28      0.55      2.50         1.94        153.48
phones K
Largest     5.84      6.18       2.40      2.30      7.52         17.95       41.52
City
tele-density
Mobile      0.48      0.10       0.04      0.06      0.43         1.46        5.64
subs per
100
Internet    50        50         194       200       909          500         15385
Users per
million
pop*
- 46 -



$permain   684         877        847       1313       639          967          1177
line                                                                             Source
figures
for
1998
except
World
Bank
1999
The privatization of LTC is close to completion. A draft Sales Agreement has been signed with a private
strategic investor, and is currently awaiting Cabinet approval. The proposed agreement contains roll-out
targets that must be met by the investors for connected lines, public pay phones, intemet access
infrastructure and fixed line capacity for each of the first five-years. The following five year targets apply:
connected lines: 50,000, and public pay phones: 1,250. A national target for all payphone providers,
including LTC (target of 1,375 subject to market demand). Quality of service targets (seven separate
targets defined with percentage requirements in years 1, 2 & 3) requiring increased quality of service over
the first three years (followed by review).
Separately, the old govermment-owned LTC has held a 12 percent stake in VCL, the only cellular operator
currently offering service in Lesotho. This 12 percent stake is in the process of being sold to a group of
local investors. The exclusivity period offered to VCL will end in June 2001. At that time the new,
privatized LTC will be granted the second cellular license and will engage in competition with VCL.
Regulatory capacity for the telecommunications regulator, particularly in the area of regulating cellular
competition, is therefore an essential item of support required, and is expected to be provided under the
proposed project.
The ongoing privatization project has supported the financial restructuring of LTC, and the following
pre-privatization actions: (a) improvements in customer service, billing procedures, collection on overdue
accounts, and credit management; (b) right sizing of the firm through outsourcing of non-core services; (c)
reconciliation of billing data between LTC and many of its large clients (including the cellular service); (d)
reconciliation, first, with the Lesotho Bank on international payments in favor of LTC; second, on debt
repayments including installation costs of a VSAT network linking bank branches; and, third, with the
Commissioner of Income Tax on LTC's cumulative corporate tax liability; (e) presentation of evidence of
ownership on land and buildings (including disputed sites involving the Post Office) and other clarifications
required for the preparation work of the 1997 through 1999 audit reports; (f) agreements on the proposed
sale of LTC's shares in the cellular operator (12 percent of VCL) by public tender as approved by Cabinet
and the Privatization Steering Advisory Committee; (g) clarification with the Lesotho Highlands
Development Authority on LTC's ownership and/or tenancy rights in the East-West digital microwave
system which forms a vital component in the national telecommunication network. The ongoing project has
also supported the recruitment of the sales advisor for the privatization process, and the technical
consultants to assist with drafting of the regulations.
Telecommunications Components
-47 -



Based on the discussions held and the forgoing analysis, the following elements of the Telecommunications
component have been agreed.
Funding of LTA: For a period of two years the running, including staff, costs of the LTA to the extent that
there is a shortfall of revenues from licenses awarded.
Funding of long term resident advisor: For a period of two years the full costs of a resident advisor to the
LTA, recruited internationally, to assist LTA in its duties and ensure the transfer of skills.
Funding of short term resident advisor(s): For a period of two years, short term resident advisor(s) to the
LTA for specific advice on specific issues and to transfer skills.
Funding of Training: For a period of two years, a training programme to build LTA capacity with
rn-house, external, overseas elements, workshops linked to studies (see below), and appropriate study tours
and/or staff exchanges.
Funding studies: For a period of two years, in order to assist LTA in its duties and to build capacity, four
studies on the topics of Universal Service/Access; Interconnection; promoting Internet; and Tariff policy.
Funding of frequency Management and Monitoring: The direct capital costs of upgrading the existing
capability so that the NTA can discharge its statutory duties.
Electricity
The main actor in the power sector is the Lesotho Electricity Corporation (LEC), which is primarily a
transmission and distribution company. Prior to 1998, LEC was purchasing all of its bulk electricity from
ESKOM in South Africa. The electricity supplied by ESKOM is mostly generated in coal-fired power
plants, and is among the cheapest in the world. Lesotho, which is potentially rich in hydropower resources,
has recently become an operating member of the Southem Africa Power Pool (SAPP), and now can buy
and sell in the regional power market. Lesotho has an existing treaty obligation with South Africa under
which Lesotho supplies water to its neighbor and receives royalties. The Lesotho Highlands Water Project
(LHWP) is administered by both GoL and the Govenmment of South Africa, through the Lesotho Highlands
Development Authority (LHDA). Prior to the political changes of 1994 in South Africa, GoL had been
concemed about its total dependence on ESKOM for bulk electricity purchases, and had considered it
strategically important to develop a domestic power generation capacity. GoL chose to do so through the
strategic placement of hydro power turbines in the path of the water which was flowing to South Africa
under its treaty obligations. The Muela hydropower project was therefore commissioned seven years later,
in 1998, and currently supplies about 85 percent of the bulk power purchased by LEC. The remaining 15
percent of bulk power used in Lesotho is sourced from ESKOM. (Muela alone is unable to supply all of
Lesotho's year-round power requirements because its power output depends on the volume of water that is
being transferred by LHWP to South Africa. The water demanded by South Africa is less in winter, when
power demand in Lesotho is highest. Since the water is used for agricultural purposes in Gauteng
province, the demand for water from the LHWP is highest in summer. Muela thus produces more power
than LEC customers need in summer, and vice versa in winter).
At present the National Control Center (NCC) which monitors and controls the power flows from Muela
and South Africa to Lesotho is a part of LEC. The government needs to decide whether it wants to
separate the NCC prior to privatization or let a private operator control the national grid, especially in the
- 48 -



light of potential electricity trade through the Southem Africa Power Pool. The Sales Advisory Group will
advise GoL on this matter.
Low coverage levels and high-cost service delivery of electricity have been identified among the principal
constraints to private sector-led growth and regional integration. The government's prior strategy of
holding tariffs below cost has been retarding system development and has held back increased access to
electricity, since LEC has been unable to generate adequate funds for system maintenance and required
investments. This problem was further exacerbated by LEC's poor operating and financial performance,
which began when the billing system collapsed in late 1997 and very few revenues could be collected for
the next two years. The impact has been threefold. First, access to electricity is very low, with about
18,000 households of the total 400,000 households in Lesotho having access to grid supplied electricity.
Second, the lack of reliable power services and a limited distribution network are resulting in substantial
losses to the real sector (especially industry), which is further burdened by the need for self-generation of
electricity at high cost. Third, there has been a significant impact on the government budget. Furthermore,
in January 2000, GoL assumed about $7.5 million of the outstanding debt of LEC to LHDA for bulk
electricity purchase costs.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$20.40 million
LEC Divestiture and Electricity Expansion
This component will focus on upgrading the electricity sector through the inflow of private capital, new
technology and management necessary to increase access and improve the affordability and reliability of
electricity services provided in the country. It comprises three sub-components:
(i) Interim Management Task Force. Technical assistance will be provided for 18 months by an
IMTF that will manage the day-to-day activities of LEC until a strategic investor is in place. The IMTF
will be held accountable (under a performance contract with incentives) for (a) the financial turnaround of
LEC, (b) parially addressing the backlog by installing up to 8,000 new electricity connections, (c)
changing over 8,000 existing credit meters to pre-payment meters in order to improve LEC's revenue base
and also to reduce the need for meter-readers, (d) defining the service territory deemed to be commercially
viable, which will be offered to the strategic investor for expansion of the network under the existing tariff
regime, (e) a skills audit to serve as the basis for streamlining the LEC labour force, (f) design and
implementation of the human resources (HR) restructuring/downsizing program, including the
communication program, developing retrenchment packages, counseling and training of retrenched workers,
and training of retained workers, (g) developing and implementing a communication plan regarding the
LEC restructuring process to internal and external stakeholders, (h) carrying out the Access to Electricity
study, (i) clearing the backlog of unaudited accounts for the last five years, and (j) providing the necessary
accounting, financial and technical information required by the sales advisors. Under the IMTF
management, the project will seek to promote the transfer of existing non-core activities of LEC to the
(local) private sector. This will be done in conjunction with the LEC streamlining/downsizing program
wherever possible, in order to offer employment opportunities to laid-off LEC staff through
sub-contracting.
(ii) Sales Advisory Group. A professional advisory team, with expertise in investment banking,
international law and technical issues will be appointed to assist GoL with developing a divestiture strategy
for LEC and the identification of, and negotiation with, a suitable strategic investor to purchase the
- 49 -



majority stake in LEC. The Sales Advisory Group will support GoL until the privatization transaction is
complete. The Credit will finance a communications strategy on three fronts, addressing informational
needs related to LEC privatization: internal to LEC; from LEC to its customer base, explaining the
privatization strategy and building awareness with respect to expected benefits; and marketing LEC
internationally through roadshows, etc., to inform potential strategic investors. This will require a public
relations campaign to promote a public awareness program for both internal LEC staff and its customers,
and the implementation of a strong Communications Program to promote private sector options to local
stakeholders and strategic foreign operators/investors.
(iii) LEC Streamlining. Retrenchment payments will not be made using resources from the
project. This component will include: (a) training and counselling of the retrenched employees, and
training of retained employees that may be necessary in addition to the tasks undertaken by IMTF in the
context of implementing the restructuring/downsizing program; (b) comprehensive monitoTing and
evaluation of the LEC downsizing program; and (c) a govemment communication program on the LEC
restructuring process.
Project Component 2 - US$5.60 million
Regulatory Reform
B. Regulatory Reform
The role of the regulators will be to enforce appropriate regulations in the utilities sectors, ensure fair and
transparent treatment of sectoral operators, and encourage new entrants (particularly in the area of
value-added services for telecommunications. and access to the Intemet), private investment and the
transfer of technologies. GoL will be assisted with evaluating the possibility of merging these regulatory
functions together under a future multi-sector regulatory agency. Futhermore, the proposed credit will
provide support, including the financing of technical advisory services, to the Ministries of Communication,
Natural Resources and Finance to oversee the implementation of the privatization process. Policy-setting
capacity is perceived to be an important element for both the telecommunications and the electricity sectors,
and expertise at the respective Ministries must keep pace with the introduction of strengthened regulatory
capacity. Policy advisors to the respective Ministries, as well as study tours for Ministry staff to gain
familiarity and experience with intemational best practices, will be supported under the project.
Telecommunications Regulator. The Lesotho Telecommunications Policy, which supports liberalization of
the sector and privatization of LTC, was adopted by Cabinet in February 1999, and the
Telecommunications Act was passed by Parliament in June 2000. To date, legal and regulatory assistance
was provided to GoL by USAID, for: (i) drafting the Telecommunications Bill which provides for an
independent regulator for the telecommunications sector; and (ii) defining the new regulatory functions.
However, additional assistance is required to develop and enforce the set of regulations which will allow
the framework to be implemented, especially in technical areas such as competition policy, interconnection,
tariffs and universal service. The PPSD Project has financed a study on the "Finalization of the
Telecommunications Regulatory Framework." The study is near completion and is expected to give
guidance on implementing the appropriate regulatory framework needed in a newly liberalized and
privatized environment. The new legal and regulatory franework aims at putting all operators on an equal
competitive footing with respect to regulatory provisions on tariffs, interconnection and universal access.
Resources will be provided to build capacity in the independent regulatory agency for the
telecommunications sector (including on important topics such as introduction of regulations encouraging
investment and competition in Internet-host services and e-commerce), and will be complemented by the
availability of an in-house regulatory advisor (internationally recruited) for the duration of the project.
- 50 -



From a sector development standpoint, technical assistance under the project will examine and formulate
recommendations related to liberalization of international traffic, fully liberalizing the provision of internet
service, and liberalizing tariffs. Lesotho is surrounded by Africa's only real internet player, South Africa.
To allow Lesotho to leverage its proximity to this market would have a positive developmental impact.
Regulatory capacity-building will extend to an assessment of the potential for e-govemance (i.e., doing
on-line any governmental function that is now done on paper - customs, taxes, licensing, corporate filings,
etc.) and the benefits of transparency that grow from it.
The project will finance the following: (a) some of the mnning costs of the LTA for two years (any
shortfall after license revenues are taken into account); (b) long term resident advisor for two years to assist
LTA in its duties and ensure the transfer of skills, (c) short term consultants for two years for advice on
specific issues and to transfer skills; (d) training over two years to build LTA capacity through in-house,
external, overseas elements, workshops linked to studies; (e) appropriate study tours and/or staff
exchanges; (f) studies on universal service/access; interconnection; promoting Internet; and tariff policy;
and (g) any additional requirements of frequency management and monitoring equipment to enable LTA to
discharge its statutory duties.
Electricity Regulator. Technical assistance under the proposed credit consists of: (a) finalization of the
definition of new regulatory functions; (b) financial support for the establishment of an independent
regulatory agency (including initial staff salaries that will subsequently be fully covered by license
revenues; and (c) establishment of operational procedures for the agency. In partieular, elements of the
proposed assistance include: a) an in-house long term regulatory advisor (internationally recruited) to
provide technical assistance to the regulator; (i) finalization of key procedures for the regulator to award
licences and concessions to the private sector; (ii) in-house training programns for the staff of the regulatory
agency and other key agencies in the sector; and (iii) study tours to countries having already liberalized
their power sector.
Resources will be provided to develop the regulatory framework and establish an independent regulator for
the power sector. The Electricity Bill is being drafted and reviewed, and is expected to be submitted for
Cabinet and subsequent Parliamentary approval by June 2001. Following passage by Parliament, the
electricity regulatory authority will be established, and staff will be trained, to implement the new
electricity legislation. The regulators will: enforce appropriate regulations in the utilities sectors, ensure
fair and transparent treatment of sectoral operators, and encourage new entrants, private investment and the
transfer of technologies.
As noted above, assistance will also be provided to a regulatory agency for telecommunications, to
implement the Telecommunications Act which has been passed recently by Parliament. The
telecommunications regulator will require additional assistance relative to the electricity regulator. This is
due to the fact that the telecommunications regulator will need to address issues of competition in the
cellular network, and promote Internet connectivity and e-commerce, by gaining access to international best
practice on how to encourage entry and competition in these areas. Specifically, issues that will be
included in the regulatory support to telecommunications, are:
*   basic competition regime, (prohibitions against abuse of dominance or significant market
power) entering into anticompetitive contracts and arrangements (vertical and horizontal),
anticompetitive cross subsidies and anticompetitive practices
* interconnection
* tariff policy
* infrastructure sharing
- 51 -



* licensing
* number portability
* frequency management (possibly including equipment)
* universal access policy & implementation
* type approval
* financial and accounting procedures
* investigative procedures
* complaint handling
* dispute resolution
GoL will also be assisted with evaluating the possibility of merging these regulatory functions together with
those for the water sector under a future multi-sector regulatory agency.
Project Component 3 - USS 5.01 million
Future of Energy Sector in Lesotho
The costs are allocated as follows: Muela Options Study (US$101,000); Future of Hydroelectric Power in
Lesotho and Export Possibilities through SAPP (US$509,000); Electricity Access Pilots (US$4.4 million)
This will involve two activities:
--A two-part study on the future options related to hydroelectric power in Lesotho. The first part
of the study will specifically recommend options related to the commercialization of Muela, and the second
part will consider the potential for the development of additional hydropower resources for export.
--Electricity Access Pilots. This component is intended to assess the viability and modalities of
providing service to those areas that will not be commercially viable, and will remain un-served following
the transfer of LEC ownership from GoL to a private investor. Once the IMTF identifies the service
territory, it will seek to identify a series of pilot areas outside the service territory in consultation with GoL
and concerned stakeholders, in which to develop institutional mechanisms and management arrangements
that will allow for sustainable electricity service delivery, with the capital investment initially supported by
IDA financing. Community-based private sector institutional arrangements (e.g. through local concessions)
will permit recovery of operating cost, maintenance and depreciation allowance. It is anticipated that
approximately 3,000 new customers outside the service territory will be connected by low-cost technologies
used to extend the grid, and separately, a total of up to 1,000 new customers spread over five pilot isolated
communities will be connected using stand-alone generation facilities. Studies will first be financed to
support the development of these arrangements. In particular, intensive surveys of proposed pilot
communities will be undertaken. In addition, the project will seek to develop access to income generating
opportunities / private sector development in these pilot areas, in parallel with the access to electricity.
There is an ongoing effort by the government to implement a rural telephone service program. This
proposed project will support the introduction of rural telephone services in the same locations as the
electricity access pilots wherever feasible.
Project Component 4 - US$2.04 million
D. Private Sector Development
The costs are allocated as follows: Support to Investment Fund US$509,000, and PSD Studies plus other
Privatization Activities US$1.53 million.
- 52 -



This component will involve two activities:
--Establishment of the Investment Fund/Unit Trust. Financing will be provided to continue
supporting on-going work to establish the Lesotho Unit Trust. With financing provided under the
IDA-financed Privatization and Private Sector Development Project, the Privatization Unit is in the process
of recruiting a Management Company that will establish and operate the Unit Trust. The chosen
Management Company is required to undertake a consultancy that will constitute the essential activities
required to establish and start operating the Unit Trust. The main principles relating to the structure of the
portfolio of the Unit Trust are based on: accessibility (by Basotho to their savings at all times);
competitiveness (in terms of returns and risks compared with other investment opportunities in Lesotho and
South Africa); and manageable risk (to avoid potential loss of confidence in capital market development in
the medium term). It is crucial that the Unit Trust's local equity portfolio consists only of shares with a
proven track record; shares of companies with growth potential (including the shares of the privatized
utilities) will be put in a Privatization Trust Fund (a warehouse) until they become financially viable. The
project will also support capacity building of the Unit Trust regulatory authority at Central Bank of
Lesotho.
--Private Sector Development Studies. Technical assistance will be financed to identify and
support activities that will encourage regional integration efforts and identify Lesotho's areas of
comparative advantage. Potential areas to be included for study include the removal of administrative
barriers to investments, internet and e-commerce possibilities within the region, targetting of high value
added goods that may be developed as non-traditional exports, and identification of actions to boost the
competitiveness of local firms. Technical assistance will also be provided to identify and support income
generating activities that can be associated with first-time access to electricity and telephone services,
particularly in the electricity access pilot areas.
Project Component 5 - US$1.30 million
E. Advisory Services and Capacity Building Assistance
Resources for advisory services and training of staff at the Ministries of Natural Resources,
Communications and Finance will be funded under this component. Advisory services include a Technical
Advisor to the Board of LEC, to assist with the supervision of IMTF; a Technical Advisor to the Ministry
of Communications on Policy Issues for Telecommunications; and a Legal Advisor to the Minister of
Finance to assist with the formulation of a Competition Law and other institutional matters related to
regional commerce. Capacity building includes training needs for the staff of the Ministries of
Communications, Natural Resources and Finance, respectively. The procurement for agreed activities
pertaining to these Ministries will be carried out by the respective Ministry, with all necessary coordination
and support provided by the Privatization Unit, which has familiarity with IDA procedures and
requirements.
The Technical Advisor to the Board of LEC has been selected and negotiations are underway. Draft terns
of reference for the Advisor to the Ministry of Communication will be prepared by mid-April 2001.
Recruitment is expected to be finalized by July 2001, with the consultancy to begin around September
2001. The Ministry of Communications has informed IDA of its proposed training requirements to be
supported under the project. These are being studied and will be considered for inclusion. Comments will
be provided to the Ministry of Communications by end-April 2001. Terms of reference for the Legal
Advisor to the Ministry of Finance will be finalized by May 2001 and the recruitment process will be
launched in June 2001. Training needs for the Ministries of Natural Resources, and Finance for the next
- 53 -



two years are being identified and will be communicated to IDA by end-April 2001.
Project Component 6 - US$2.93 million
F. Implementation.
This component is proposed to include contracts of key senior staff at the Privatization Unit; legal,
financial, audit and other consultancies that will be required by PU from time to time; some public
awareness costs; and the operational costs of PU within an agreed framework. The African Development
Bank will finance training costs, office equipment and vehicles; the advisor to the director; other officers,
support personnel, and some public awareness costs.
Of the total, foreign costs are being financed as follows: IDA $2.0 million and AfDB $0.93 million.
Resources will be provided to support the operating budget of the Privatization Unit (salaries of key senior
staff and any expansion of office equipment, as needed). In addition, external support will be provided to
strengthen financial management capacity at PU. This will include the short-term recruitment of an
international accounting firm to develop systems and manuals for financial management and reporting, and
the long-term recruitment (18 months to two years) of a consultant to support PU in carrying out the
reconimendations of the international accounting firm. Any consultancies that may be required by the PU
in furthering the objectives of this project (legal, audit, financial) will also be supported.
Project Component 7 - US$2.10 million
PPF Refinancing
A PPF of US$1.5 million was made available by IDA to GoL in August 1998, for a proposed supplemental
project on privatization and regulatory reform. The appraisal of that proposed project had to be cancelled
due to the outbreak of civil disturbances the following month. Resources of that PPF were used for the
study on Regulatory Reform for Electricity and Water Sectors, the financial workout team and market
analysis for LTC, and the divestiture of Lesotho Bank. It is proposed that the PPF will be refinanced under
this project. An additional PPF of US$0.6 million was provided to GoL in June 2000 for the initiation of
activities under the Utilities Sector Reform Project.
- 54 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
LESOTHO: Utilities Sector Reform Project
;.. .......    .
1404~~:4
1. Privatization of LEC                                                                    0.00
1.1 Interim Management Task Force                          0.00          13.90         13.90
1.2 Sales Advisory Group                                   0.00           3.50          3.50
1.3 Retrenchment Program                                    1.80          0.40          2.20
2. Regulatory Framework                                                                    0.00
2.1 Electricity Sector                                     0.30           1.00           1.30
2.2 Telecommunications Sector                               1.00          3.20          4.20
3. Future Electricity Options                                 0.00           5.20          5.20
4. Capacity Building Assistance                               0.00           1.30           1.30
5. Private Sector Development                                 0.10           1.90          2.00
6. Implementation                                             2.40           0.40          2.80
7. PPF I                                                      0.00           1.50           1.50
Total Baseline Cost                                           5.60          32.30         37.90
Physical Contingencies                                       0.00           0.30          0.30
Price Contingencies                                          0.20           1.00          1.20
Total Project Costs                5.80          33.60         39.40
Total Financing Required                 5.80          33.60         39.40
_i                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~
p.
Consultancy services                                            2.40           19.10         21.50
Works                                                           0.00            0.10          0.10
Goods                                                           0.10           13.90         14.00
Retrenchment Program                                            1.90           0.00           1.90
Operation/Maintenance                                           1.90           0.00           1.90
Total Project Costs       6.30          33.10          39.40
Total Financing Required        6.30          33.10          39.40
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US9n) and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 39.5 (US9n). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 72.41% of
total project cost net oftaxes.
- 55 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
LESOTHO: Utilities Sector Reform Project
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
S~~~~~~                                       '  t,-YP,a '-a:>t!<MM,  00
cQ%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~om~~~~~~~~~~~  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~...........
Benefits:
Base Year: 2000
Benefits (US $m)                 69.7                                   10.8                 13.7
Costs:                           29.9
Net Benefits:                    39.8
(US$m)
iRR:                            23.1%
lProbability that IRR
is below 10% is
neglible                                  _________________
Notes (a) Using a discount rate of 12%;
(b) Benefits are estimated using incremental taxes obtained from privatized enterprises and new businesses;
(c) Savings derived from reduced direct subsidies to public enterprises.
if the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
ta,xes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Base Case Results. The net present value of the project is estimated at about US$39.8 million for a 12
percent discount rate, and its internal economic rate of return is estimated at 23.1 percent. The net present
value of the project varies from about US$53.3. million to US$16.4 million for discount rates of 10 percent
and 17 percent, respectively.
Main Assumptions:
1. Stable macroeconomics environment as projected in the CAS with real GDP growth averaging at 5
percent.
2. Additional capital investment will be available for rehabilitation of equipment, new technology, training
of staff, which will boost capacity utilization rates and increase productivity.
3. It has also been assumed that: (a) GOL is fully committed to Public Enterprise Reform; (b) the project
would develop a market friendly and competitive environment through the establishment of an appropriate
regulatory framework, which, in turn, would help attract foreign capital, technology, and managerial
expertise required to improve the efficiency of the sectors and their value added contributions to GDP.
4. Detailed quantitative assumptions are described in Annex 4-1.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
- 56 -



Switching values of critical items: Two sensitivity tests were carried out: (a) the first test assumed that
gains in productivity and output were half of the case base; and (b) the second assumed that gains in
productivity and output were half of the case base, consumer gains in price/tariff are 25 percent of base
case and a zero growth in employment. They show an ERR at 15.9 percent and a NPV at US$10.8 million,
an ERR at 12.6 percent and a NPV at US$1.8 million respectively. These tests demonstrates that this
project produces solid results. The pay-back period is 8 years and the ERR is 12 percent when NPV is
zero.
- 57 -



Annex 4-1
Lesotho Utilities Sector Reform Project
Economic Analysis of Overall Project
I.    Recent Macro-Economic Developments
1.    Despite the economic uncertainties and the rapid changes in the economic landscape, Lesotho's
recent economic performance has been quite mixed. It was impressive at an average annual real growth of
4.2 percent in the 1980s. Between 1994-1998, the real GDP growth averaged 5.6 percent per year mainly
due to the Lesotho Highland Water Development Project (LHWDP). The Improved growth performance
also reflected the impact of the LHWP and the strong output growth in export-oriented manufactunng
resulting from high foreign investment in the early 1990s. This trend was heavily affected by a sharp
contraction of the economy in 1998 following the political turmoil in that years (May-August 1998) with a
8.6 percent real GDP growth, thus undermining the process. Inflation, which largely reflects price
developments in South Africa, was at about 7.8 percent in 1997, increased to 9.1 percent in 1998 and fell
slightly to 8.7 percent in 1999. This progress was achieved despite the constraints imposed by severe
droughts, high unemployment of around 35-40 percent mainly due to the retrenchment of Basotho miners in
South Africa and rapid growth of the labor force.
Private Sector Development
2.    The private sector in Lesotho is small, estimated at 45 large firms in the formal private sector,
mostly in Maseru. It is characterized by lack of entrepreneurial tradition. This picture is changing as the
industrial sector increasing its share of GDP; in 1995 it was 11 percent. Over a twenty year period, the
sector has grown at an average of 18 percent a year. This growth was due to inflow of foreign investment
in the late 1970s and 1980s which was motivated by the trade-related reasons and Lesotho's comparative
advantage with respect to labor costs. The global economic sanctions imposed against The Republic of
South Africa and the Multi-Fibre Agreement which had quotas on Asian producers who relocated their
firms to Lesotho and Mauritius. About 50 percent of the largest enterprises are owned by predominantly
foreigners or are joint ventures with foreign partners. Firms owned by South Africans avoiding sanctions
have been important as they represent half the foreign firms in the sector. These firms have made industrial
exports the most buoyant element of Lesotho's total exports. This development in textile and footwear
industries have been accompanied by a buoyant construction industry.
3.    There are high levels of under- and unemployment and far too few employment opportunities, in
both Lesotho and South Africa. Underemployment is widespread in rural Lesotho and open unemployment
is growing in urban areas. The unemployment rate in 1993 -- counting both unemployment and
underemployment -- was estimated to be an alarming 35-40 percent. The little data on employment that
exists shows the labor force to be greatly under-used. Projections from the 1986 census showed that the
labor force was about 800,000. The potential labor force in 1993 (that is people 15 to 64) was slightly over
1 million, out of a total population of about 1.9 million. The actual labor force is calculated assuming
labor force participation rates of about 85 percent for men and 75 percent for women. And population
growth rates were high (2.5 percent a year), so net annual increases to the potential labor force ranges from
20,000 to 25,000 over while only 2,000 new jobs are created annually.
4.    In 1993, opportunities for formal employment fell far short of demand. Altogether only 28 percent
- 58 -



ofthe workforce, or an estimated 225,000 people held fonmal wage jobs, distributed roughly as follows
(based on estimates from various sources):
Private sector
*   115,000 Basotho worked in South African mine (51.1 percent).
*   20,000 were employed in domestic manufacturing.
*   18,000 worked in retail trade.
*   15,000 worked in construction.
*   13,000 did other work in South Africa -- for example, in agriculture, private industry, domestic
service, or a professional occupation.
*   7,000 had jobs in hotels, restaurants, transportation, or financial services.
*   2,000 worked in other services, nonprofit organizations, or private health care.
Public Sector
*   21,000 were civil servants (including both salaried and waged workers).
*   10,000 were employed as teachers.
*   4,000 were employed in military or police security.
Public Enterprise Sector
o   7,700 employed in the public enterprises (3.4 percent).
Women make 60 percent of employees in the formal sector. This confirms that employment for women in
the formal sector is very high, and it is linked to textile industry.
5.     That left roughly 72 percent of the labor force (about 575,000 workers) to work in agriculture and
the informal sector, sectors in which retums to labor are generally low. The informal sector has been
playing a crucial role for the economically active labor force in commercial activities by producing goods
and services and other products. Therefore, employment in the informnal sector has increased significantly
with an estimated 660,000 employees of which only 12 percent are in the capital city, Maseru. The
remaining 79 percent of the small enterprises are found in the rural areas (this number includes micro
enterprises in Lesotho). Roughly 30 percent of all Basotho households engage in some form of informal or
small-scale nonfarm business activity and for about half of those who do, the business is their main source
of income. Nearly 103,000 small businesses (including microenterprises) were operating in Lesotho in
1990, employing an estimated 161,000 people. Small businesses in Lesotho tend to be very small but there
are so many of them that they are an important source of employment, providing more work to the Basotho
than either the South African mines or the domestic formal sector.
II.    Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Overall Project
6.     Methodology. Undertaking the project is a resource allocation decision which would not only
create economic benefits but also deprive other socially desirable programs of resources. It creates
opportunity costs in terms of foregone social and economic services. The economic cost-benefit analysis
approach provides a rational framework for analyzing the potential net benefits. Altemative analytical tools
such as Cost-Effectiveness analysis or Cost-Utility analysis have their limitations in elucidating the net
socio-economic benefits of a project of this nature. The cost-benefit analysis concentrates on identification
and measurement problems that are encountered in all project evaluations. Therefore, to address the
identification issue for the project costs and benefits, only direct and indirect incremental impacts on the
Govenmment and society of Lesotho were considered. The welfare gains and losses were estimated by using
- 59 -



net change in average economic output price. Where explicit prices were not available, and or
non-indicative of true socioeconomic cost and benefits, indicative proxies have been applied. The
evaluation was done in terms of economic cash flow analysis which was developed from the financial cash
flow of the project. Recognition was given to the fact that not all economic costs and benefits are
measurable in monetary terms.
7.    Most of the expected benefits would occur in the medium term since the project is expected to
facilitate essentially institutional development through capacity building in both public and private sectors.
The identified indirect benefits were quantified to obtain their monetary values because no direct cost
recovery mechanisms have been built into the project. Monetary values inputted to the indirect benefits
represents measurable gains from additional income generated from newly created jobs, economic
efficiency from reduction in factor costs and consumer surplus. Furthermore, expected non-monetized
benefits from the project include improved management, changes in quality and quantity of services,
conducive business environment, changes in poverty alleviation and social distress. Non cash flow financial
values such as amortization charges, sunk costs for physical requirements, and the debt service obligations
were considered only in relation to fiscal impact of the project.
8.    Cost-benefit analysis was done for the overall project, using a cost-benefit evaluation framework
that determined the economic rate of return and net present value. The distributional aspect of the benefits
have been analyzed by identification of the project beneficiaries. It has been difficult to deal with inter-firm
linkages and inter-industry dependencies within the PE sector. The utilities enterprises have accrued
benefits from monopoly charges to other PEs and indirectly provided short term financing in form of huge
receivable accounts (arrears). It would be difficult to include such costs in the economic analysis.
9.    Assumptions: The assumptions made for the EA. are as follows:
3  that GOL is genuinely and continuously committed to PE sector reform. To prove this GOL in
February 1999, published " The Lesotho Telecommunications Policy" that paid attention to the
potential contributions of telecommunication sector to the overall economic performance.
Furthermore, in February 2000 a new Telecommunication Act was passed by Parliament to
implement primarily the key elements of the Telecommunication Policy. To this end, the LTC -
telecommunication company improved on its financial management in order to shape the company
prior to its privatization. To bring the financial discipline and management in LEC - electricity
company, the GOL is in the process of recruiting an interim management task force for 18 months
to prepare the company for privatization.
*   that GOL will continue with its prudent macroeconomics policies to stabilize its economic
environment and improvements in extemal competitiveness through concrete actions to deal with
the public utilities;
*   that the private sector, both local and foreign investors, will respond positively to the reforms for
the benefits to materialize. GOL has institute an open and on-going dialogue with interested and
affected parties and the private sector to ensure that participation is maximized -- especially on the
Investment fund which is intended to promote local equity participation, in both, local and regional
enterprises;
*  that the project would develop a market friendly and competitive environment because of the new
regulatory framework which would help to attract foreign capital, technology, and managerial
expertise required to improve the efficiency of the sectors and their value added contributions to the
country's GDP;
*  that the existing prices in the economy are market determined.
- 60 -



*   that the GOL has made adequate arrangements to meet its obligations under the retrenchment
program in LEC.
10.   Project Costs. Total project costs have been estimated at US$ 39.0 million. They include
transaction costs for financial restructuring and privatization of LEC, development and establishment of
independent energy sector regulatory agency and strengthening of the telecommunication sector's
regulatory agency by providing funds to meet these costs and operating costs. The IDA will finance $ 25.9
million representing 66 percent of the total project cost while the GOL's contribution is estimated at 5
percent of total project costs. To accommodate unforeseen expenses and in-built flexibility in the use or
allocation of funds, a 2.5 percent contingency fund has been included. However, 31 percent of the total
project cost will be in the form of co-financing from the African Development Bank (ADB) to the project.
In addition, 3.7 million has been earmarked to meet retrenchment costs paid to the laid-off staff including
re-absorption measures of the retrenchment workers. This has been taken into account in the economic
analysis of the program (See Section III below).
Table 1. Project Costs by Component (US $ million)
Project Component                                     Total
1. Divestiture and Immediate Connections                             20.4
2. Regulatory Reform                                                 5.6
3. Private Sector Development Activities                             2.0
4. Capacity Building assistance                                       1.3
5. Future Energy Sector Issues                                       5.2
6. Project Coordination                                               2.9
7. PPF                                                                1.5
Total Project Cost                                                  39.0
Note: These figures are not discounted and includes ADB cofinancing and GOL contributions. The discounted amount is $29.9 million.
11.    Project Benefits. The economic effects of privatization are normally estimated using ex ante
version of partial equilibrium analysis developed by Jones, Tandon and Vogelsang which is emerging as the
leading edge technology in the analysis of divestitures since 1 980s. The method involves developing
projections for the flows generated by a firm in the case of continued public ownership within public sector
which serves as a project altemative to the estimated flows from private operation following privatization.
The present value of the difference between the two cases provides an estimate of the change in benefits
accruing to the society as the result of privatization. This method is applicable only if the historical data on
the performance and other institutional changes of the firm are available.
12.   In addition, the post privatization projections would also require some form of creativity in
adaptations to simplify the evaluation. In this case, the economic analysis did not evaluate the increased
- 61 -



value of the privatized enterprises to the Basotho society as a benefit. Instead, four other major economic
benefits were identified and quantified as follows:
a)    Benefits from newly created employment opportunities in the private sector. The GOL
employs only 15.5 percent of formal sector employment while the PE sector employs a mere 3.4 percent of
the formal sector employment (1995). With privatization, the domestic private sector employment share is
expected to increase further from 29.6 percent of the formal sector to about 35 percent in five years as the
public enterprise sector shrinks by 32 percent. Moreover, with the newly created jobs which are expected to
increase at an average of 3.2 percent per annum; incremental income will be generated and has been
estimated on the basis of expected additional job creation due to new investment and increased demand for
services.
b)    Benefits in Productivity and Output: Gains are expected from higher total factor productivity,
resulting from expected changes in work ethics, training, better management, better equipment and new
technology, as well as job-loss savings generated by PE restructuring. This has been measured through
changes in cost of providing the services to each customer in telecommunication and electricity. The
increases in number of lines from 15,000 to 50,000 requires a high rate of backlog reduction,
approximately, 20 - 30 percent per annum. The current operating efficiency rate is in LEC is low at 33
customers per employee, even with the retrenchment of 40 percent of the labor force, the rate remains low
at 34 customers per employee. With privatization, this ratio is expected to improve due to increases in
coverage by 25 percent to 20,000 customers and the operating efficiency ratio will improve to 50 customers
per employee by year 2005.
Table 2. Projected Economic Benefits 1998-2007 (US $ million)
Economic Benefits                           Total Overall Project Discounted Benefits.
A. Benefits from newly created Employment                        1.0
Opportunities
B. Benefits from Productivity & Output                          58.0
C. Consumer Surplus (Gains in Price/Tariff)                     10.7
TOTAL                                                           69.7
c)    Consumer Surplus (Gains in price and tariff): Benefits to the consumer are expected in the form
of adjusted price/tariffs and improved service quality, increased access and wider coverage due to
competition and private sector involvement. LEC effective tariff rates are heavily subsidized at the expense
of industrial and commercial customers. It is about US$ 0.05/kWh. Investment cost per telephone line are
not really higher than that of the region but could be reduced to meet international standards. Hence, it is
estimated that by the end of project, there will be 1,250 public pay phones compared to 125 that are
currently available. It has been assumed that the tariff structure will be reviewed to reflect the cost of new
investment and competition. With privatization the capacity and number of telephone main lines connected
have increased from its 1997 level of 15,000 to 28,000 in 1999 and estimated to 50,000 in 2005. In
addition, the privatization of will bring welfare gains to all parties in the economy through increased
- 62 -



efficiency particularly in system losses which are relatively high at 17 percent. Cameroon, Cote d'Ivoire,
Botswana, Zambia and Zimbabwe recorded system losses of lower than 10 percent in 1992. LEC had
12-13 percent system losses in 1995, but it deteriorated to 19 percent in 1999 due to the collapse of LEC's
billing system. It is however expected that by the end of project - 2005, the system losses in LEC will be
reduced to 8 percent. However, only benefits from estimated reduced prices have been quantified for the
analysis. It is estimated that even with a 10 percent percent reduction in system losses could result in 10
percent to 15 percent reduction in tariffs under current consumption levels. Therefore, the project has
potential of creating cost savings on tariff.
13.    Target groups. Key target groups have been identified and include:
a)     Consumers would gain about US$10.7 million. The sources of benefits (consumer surplus)
include expected adjustments in tariffs, expected increases in access to utilities services, expected
elimination of waste, expedited accounts receivable collection and productivity gains.
b)     Retrenched employees who would benefit from project's arrangements with GOL to provide
required resources to finance services to reduce the social cost impact especially when the retrenched
employees will be searching for income-generating activities that would provide a sustainable employment
for the individuals who will opt for self-employment.
c)     Employees remaining in the privatized enterprises and the restructured public enterprises would
gain through increased welfare. This would be achieved either through employee share purchase plans and
through new labor contracts, that normally takes place after privatization. There could also be some
increases in the average wage bill and welfare due to private enterprise productivity performance, training
and additional employment opportunities.
d)     The private sector, including local and foreign investors, small, medium and micro enterprises
whose investment opportunities have been restrained due to unfavorable business environment resulting
from public enterprise monopoly power would benefit from removal of entry barriers and reduction in
factor costs of production specifically in telecommunications and energy. This is shown on the economic
benefit values on estimated increases in productivity and output. Growth in the private sector is expected to
generate employment opportunities to further alleviate the social costs of unemployment. These economic
benefits are reflected in the estimated benefits from increased employment, productivity and output.
e)     The Government of Lesotho would benefit from the project through savings made through
elimination of direct subsidies and transfers to the PE sector of equivalent to US$13.7 million per annum.
US$1.8 million is an estimate of subsidies from GOL to the 5 PEs in form of debt service, working capital
etc. (IDC Report 1995). Therefore, the present value of the savings in subsidies amounts to US$13.7
million. At the end of the privatization program project, the extensive privatization program which includes
monopolistic markets such as electricity, water and telephone enterprises will result into a reduced size of
the public enterprise sector by at least 43.8 percent. Total PEs in Lesotho were 57: (a) 20 companies and
financial institutions; (b) Three of the PEs have total of 31 subsidiaries; (c) GOL have minority shares in
six other companies. The privatization program will privatize 25 PE. Thus, reflecting a dramatic decline in
the role of the state.
14.   Base Case Results. The net present value of the project is estimated at about US $39.8 million for
a 12 percent discount rate, and its intemal economic rate of return is estimated at 23.1 percent. The net
present value of the project varies from about US$53.3 million to US$16.4 million for discount rates of 10
- 63 -



percent and 17 percent, respectively (see Table 3. below). The base case scenario has been relatively
conservatively estimated because other benefits have not been quantified in monetary terms to be included
in the analysis. These benefits includes: (a) the increased levels of foreign investmnent in the country, (b)
occasional creation of jobs due to construction for expansion, (c) increases in trade volume - exports and
imports, and (d) revenue to be received as net sales of the privatized enterprises.
Table 3. Base case Results
ERR (0/%)                      NPV ($m)
Overall project at 12%                       23.1                            39.8
Overall project at 10%                       23.1                            53.3
Overall Project at 17%                       23.1                            16.4
15.           Sensitivity Analysis. Three sensitivity tests were carried out: (a) the first assumed that
gains in productivity & output were half of the base case; and (b) the second assumed that gains in
productivity & output were half of the base case, consumer surplus 25 percent of the base case and zero
employment growth. The results are shown in Table 4.
Table 4. Sensitivity Analysis
Benefits               Base case               Sensitivity Ana;ysis (a)    Sensitivity Analysis (b)
Additional Income       as estimated           as estimated            0 growth
Gains in Productivity &    as estimated        -50%                    -50%
Output
Consumer Surplus       as estimated            as estimated            -25%
IRR(%/6)      NPV($m) IRR(%)          NPV($m) IRR(%)          NPV($m)
OverallProject          23.1           39.8    15.9             10.8   12.6            1.8
They show an ERR at 15.9 percent and a NPV at US$10.8 million, and an ERR at 12.6 percent and a
NPV at US$1.8 million, respectively. This table demonstrates that this project produces robust results.
The payback period is 8 years and the NPV is zero when the ERR is at 12 percent.
16.   In addition, the project will generate over a US$24.5 million of savings in public finance in the
form of resource allocation efficiency. These savings are expected to come from significant reduction in
direct and indirect subsidies to public enterprises, reduction of transfer of productive capital resources into
the PE sector (US$13.7 million), and increase in corporate and other tax gains from privatized and new
firms (US$10.8 million). This would reduce government fiscal burden and free resources for new
investment in the social sectors. Additional fiscal impact will be derived from the net sales of the privatized
enterprises.
17.    Useful perfornance indicators that GoL could use to verify improvement in performance of
- 64 -



privatized enterprises and realization of the expected benefits are: (a) private profitability, which measures
the bottom line for private shareholders. This is influenced by prices as well as quantities, thus increases in
output; (b) total factor productivity, which removes price effects to show what happens to productivity.
This is derived by measuring the index of quantity of output to the index of the quantity of inputs, in
particular labor productivity; and (c) investment, which shows the dynamic effect of privatization over a
longer period of time. This is measured by fixed capitalformation in the enterprises. It is therefore, crucial
for GoL to pay attention to what they are selling, to whom they are selling and how the sale is conducted
especially in the financing of the transaction. The Utilities Sector Reform Project will assist GoL to meet
these challenges.
-65 -



UTILITIES REFORM PROJECT
COST- BENEFITANALYSIS
Basecase Scenario
(USS Thousands)
COSTS                                         BENEFITS
Additional
Income Generated      Gains in                                               NET
Other project  from Employment Productivity &   Consumer Gains                           Cost or Benefit
Year           IDA Project Costs        Cost       I Opportunities         Output       in Price/Tariffs                      for the year
l                       (1 200          (4 300. 00'                                                                                (7J400)
2                       (8I125           1 1160Q71               59            2,238  1.112                                        (5, 77)
3                        (7 1 75          (797.19                59 2.503 1.523                                                    (3J 86)
4                        (5 125                                  60            2756              1 901                               (408)
5                                                               152            5,340             2 331                              7. 23
6                                                               1 55           6,065             2-533                              8, 52
7                                                               158            6,724            1344                               8 26
8                                                               161            7.727             1,462                              9,250
9                                                               265           13 084             1-590                             14S40
10                                                              273            15 598            L no                              17, f02
11                   2_                         _  L    *        81            18,617  1.883                                       20J81
12          r                  T _ _362                                       22_245 2_048                                         242(55
13                                                              373 r         26605              2229                              29207
14             _____3841                                                      31_851             2426                              34 (61
15           I                 T                                396            38.164            2,640
(23,625)           (6,258)            3,138          199,517           26,753 NPV A12% 38j282
l __________________    l ____________    l  ____________    l ________________________________________              IR R                     23    C6%
1. Stable macroeconomics environment as projected in the CAS with real GDP growth averaging at 5.0%.
2. Additional capital investments from the private sector will be available for rehabilitation of equipment, new technology, training
of staff that will boost capacitv utilization and increase Droductivitv.
3. Reduction in electricity and teleconmmunication losses will increase consumption of current output by 10%
Thus causing savings through reduction in tariffs and factor costs
12/28/00 16:13
- 66 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
LESOTHO: Utilities Sector Reform Project
Years Ending
Financial Assessment of the Lesotho Electricity Corporation
I.    Introduction
1.    The Lesotho Electricity Corporation (LEC), established by the Government of the Kingdom of
Lesotho in 1969, is responsible for power transmission and distribution in the country. The utility also
operates four mini-hydro plants in remote areas of the country. Until August 1998 the only source of
electricity supply to Lesotho was the power that LEC purchased from the ESKOM network in South
Africa through two intake points. After the Muela Hydropower Station was commissioned as a part of the
Lesotho Highlands Water project (LHDA), LEC started to buy the bulk of its power requirement ftom the
LHDA. Recently the amount of electricity purchased from Muela accounted for about 85 percent of total
energy demand. Maximum demand of the system is about 80 MW.
2.    Both LEC's technical and financial performance have deteriorated in recent years. This Annex
reviews the historical financial performance of LEC as well as the financial prospects of the utility under
the Interim Management Task Force.
II.    Historical Financial Performance
3.    LEC's present accounting system cannot provide reliable and timely financial information. The
latest audited accounts have been produced for FY96 (LEC financial year ends on March 31). LEC's
billing system failed in 1997 causing major inaccuracies in its customer database and tremendous delays in
billing. At present, the database is being gradually cleaned up and billing and collections are picking up.
For 350 large customers (industrial and commercial), that generate approximately 50 percent of LEC's
revenue, recent billing has been done using Microsoft Access based template developed by the utility. The
bills for the rest of the customers are prepared manually. LEC have recently prepared draft accounts for
FY97 which are yet to be audited.
4.    No accounts have been prepared for FY98, FY99 and FY2000. The financial information
(indicative only), for the purposes of this analysis, for these years was fumished by the LEC and is a result
of a joint effort that required going through original receipts and accounts that have been kept manually.
5.    In addition to the problems with billing, the following major weaknesses of LEC's accounting
practices in the last three years should be highlighted:
*      fixed assets register was not maintained;
*      aging schedules of accounts receivable were not prepared;
*      there is no procedure for bad debt write-off;
*      stores were not physically verified.
6.    LEC's financial results in recent years are summarized in Tables 1 and 2 below:
- 67 -



Table 1: Financial Performance of LEC (FY93-FY0O)
(Maloti '000)
Profit and Loss Account    |                                                                     =     -
Fiscal year ending March 31
(M aloti  '000)                               _ _ _ _    _ _ _              _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _       _ _
1993     1994      1995     1996    1997       1998      1999       2000
Electricity purchases (GWh)   253   292       337      332      329       314        305       326
Electricity sales (GWh)    223      257       293      303      300       256        246       272
Energy losses (/O)        12%      12%       13%      9%       9%        18%        19%       17%
Average tariff (Maloti/kWh)   0.30  0.33      0.27     0.28     0.28      0.34      0.36       0.34
Average purchase price     0.10     0.11      0.11     0.12     0.13      0.13      0.14       0.16
(M/kWh)                                                                                         =     =
Revenue (M '000)                                                                                   _
Electricity sales        67,230   83,582    79,323   85,401   84,889    86,586    88,318    93,550
Other revenue            1,098    1,008     1,188    1,434    1,062      200       200       2,607
Total revenue              68,328   84,590    80,512   86,834   85,950    86,786    88,518    96,157
Expenses
Electricity purchased    25,802   31,743    35,647   39,701   41,868    41,672    42,278    53,739
Fuel for generation      1,070    1,324     1,489    2,213    1,966      1,500     1,000     738
O&M                      5,579    5,764     7,306    8,840    9,698      8,758     9,196     6,870
Admin& other             11,151   17,073    16,949   22,011   21,966    24,383    27,065    32,485
Depreciation             6,032    6,588     7,360    8,694    9,114      9,384     10,020    10,262
Total expense              49,634  .62492 _        6751   81_459   84_612    85_697    89559    104.093
Operating income           18,695   22,099    11,760   5,376    1,338     1,090      (1,041)   (7,936)
Interest received/(paid)   (9,423)  (8,179)   3,376    1,508    (781)     (4,447)   (3,111)   (1,915)
Provision for taxation     4,838    10,647    6,657    3,545    1,187     0          0         0
Net income                 4,433   13,273     8,480    3,339    (630)     (3,358)   (4,152)   (9,851)
Operating ratio (%)       73%       74%       85%      94%      98%       99%        101%     108%
Gross Operating Margin    0.48      0.46      0.56     0.59     0.63      0.60      0.59      0.66
Interest Coverage          7.35      11.75    28.24    17.64    2.32       1.63     2.60      0.20
Customer per employee      17       17        17       19       21        25        29        33
7.     The above table calls for the following comments:
Purchase of energy
LEC's energy purchases in GWh in recent years decreased from 329 GWh in 1997 to 314 GWh in 1998
and 305 GWh in 1999. This happened due to the political unrest in the country and scaling down of the
operations of LHDA contractors - LHDA construction works were one of major LEC's consumers. The
- 68 -



demand started to pick up in 2000 and energy purchases increased to 326 GWh.
Electricity purchases accounted for about 55 percent of total operating expenses of LEC (excluding
depreciation) in FY98 and FY99. In 2000 they increased to 57 percent. The average purchase price of a
kWh of power was M 0.13 in 1998, M 0.14 in 1999 and M 0.16 in 2000. After the Muela plant (LHDA)
was commissioned, LEC was obliged to buy whatever power was produced by Muela and cover the rest of
the demand by importing electricity from ESKOM, South Africa. It had an impact on the average ESKOM
rate: though the ESKOM energy rate was about M 0.065 per kWh, the effective unit price from ESKOM in
FY99 /FY2000 was M 0.26 (about US 4 cents). In previous years it was M 0.14 per kWh. This was due
to the following factors:
* In 1999 LEC did not have cash to pay electricity bills to ESKOM of about M 8 million and the
Government of Lesotho had to pay these bills in order for ESKOM to continue the supply of power.
This bridge financing had to be repaid by LEC and calculations of the unit purchase price include the
interest on the above financing.
* The calculation of average unit cost of a kWh from EKCOM included, in addition to the energy charge
and monthly demand charge, a fixed charge of about M 1.7 million a year to repay the cost of
constructing the transmission line that interconnects the South African and Basotho power systems.
Due to the fact that recently only about 15 percent of the power was bought from ESKOM this charge
was spread over a small number of units, increasing unit cost. Purchases from ESKOM accounted for
23 percent of cost of electricity purchased.
The effective price of electricity bought from LHDA (Muela) in the same period was about M 0.14 per
kWh though the LHDA energy rate was M 0.082 - 26 percent higher than ESKOM's. The Power Sales
Agreement with LHDA includes a fixed charge of about M 0.9 million per month which LEC paid for the
first time in March 2000 after 18 months of non-payment. The average ESKOM rate has been paid by
LEC for bulk power supply from LHDA since April 2000 but the utility has been billed with rates based on
the Power Sales Agreement. However, there is a firm government decision to change the LEC/LHDA
supply agreement to bring the energy rates in line with ESKOM price relieving the utility from payments
for some of the Muela capital costs, so that LHDA will apply ESKOM rates for its sales to LEC
(retroactively) from February 1, 2000.
Losses
Unaccounted for electricity (technical losses as well as unbilled consumption on account of theft and
inaccurate billing) was as the level of 12-13 percent from 1993 to 1995 and improved to 9 percent from
1996 to 1997 - a more reasonable ratio for such a system. However, due to the collapse of the billing
system and the general deterioration of the utility's operations in recent years, losses increased to a level of
18 percent in 1998, 19 percent in 1999, and 17 percent in 2000. Had losses been sustained at about 10
percent, over last three years LEC would have been able to bill an additional 75 GWh or receive M 26
million in additional revenue.
Tariffs
Tariffs have remained unchanged since 1993. The average effective tariff in FY2000 was M 0.34 per kWh
or about US$ 5.7 cents. Tariffs are heavily cross subsidized, largely at the expense of industrial and
commercial customers. LEC management has submitted a tariff increase proposal to the government but
no tariff adjustments have been made.
- 69 -



Billing and collections
The main reason for the disaster in the electricity billing, apart from the failure of the billing system in
1997, was lack of systematically organized monthly reading of electricity meters or appropriate averaging
between readings. The delays in issuing the bills were tremendous - customers were billed over six months
after the service provision. In FY2000 this situation began to improve and the delays in billing reduced to
about two months on average, while for industrial customers bills were usually current. The collections
(including payments from customers for arrears) improved to about 89 percent of electricity billed. At
present, about 13 percent of electricity is sold through prepayment meters (cash sales) but there is a lack of
consolidation of data about cash receipts from different vending points, which distorts the collections
picture.
Operations and Maintenance Expenses
Due to financial constraints operation and maintenance expenditures in FY2000 have fallen by 25 percent
compared to FY99, causing a deterioration of the transmission and distribution system. LEC operates four
mini-hydro plants in rural areas: Tlokoeng, Mantsonyane, Semokong and Qucha's Neck, which are
complemented by back-up diesel generators for the periods when there is not sufficient water. The average
fuel costs for the diesel stood at M 2 million. In recent years LEC did not have cash to buy enough diesel
for backing up the mini-hydros and the fuel costs in FY2000 went down by 63 percent as compared to
FY97, and the power supplies to the above areas were heavily interrupted.
Labor costs
LEC is an extremely overstaffed utility. In FY95, servicing a total of 13,900 customers, it employed 805
people so that the "customers per employee" ratio was only 17 people. In FY2000 LEC employed 639
people, and the ratio improved to 33 customers per employee but it is still unacceptably low. In FY2000
the annual labor cost (salaries and related expenses) was M 29 million. It represented 31 percent of total
operating expenses excluding depreciation or 72 percent of operating expenses excluding depreciation and
energy purchases. Salaries to LEC staff are paid in arrears.
Debt service
A particular difficulty in preparation of LEC's estimated accounts for FY98, FY99 and FY2000 was
treatment LEC's foreign loans. The Govenrnent of Lesotho, to implement its plans to bring industrial
development to the south of the country secured foreign financing for the Central and Southem Network
project which included two extensions of the power distribution network (Maseru to Mafeteng - Phase I
and Mafeteng to Mohale's Hoek - Phase 2). The financiers were Nordbanken (Norway) and
Eksportfinance (Sweden).
The total amount of loans incurred to finance this project was M85 million. Phase 1 started in 1993 and
was completed in 1996 and Phase 2 started in 1997 and finished in May 2000. Both of these grid
expansions/reinforcements tumed out to be expensive as the demand in the connected areas is extremely
low and the assets do not generate enough revenue to service the debt. The Govermment of Lesotho has
been processing invoices from creditors through the Central Bank, issuing subsequent invoices to LEC for
reimbursement of these payments. The lines constructed have not been transferred to LEC' fixed assets
register and the loans are not on the utility's books. However, LEC was repaying these loans up to April
1999.
- 70 -



At present there is an amount of M13 .5 million for which the Government has claimed repayment from
LEC. These are technically not debts of LEC, since the assets are not owned by the utility. The
outstanding debt service, which has been affected by devaluation, is going to be resolved by the
Government of Lesotho before the privatization occurs. For the purposes of this analysis these two loans
are not included in the FY99 and FY2000 estimated accounts and projected accounts for 2001 - 2004.
8.    Due to the lack of proper management over the period of FY97-2000 LEC turned from a viable
utility into a loss maker that does not have cash to pay for its power supplies and is in arrears on salaries to
its employees. The net loss in FY99 was estimated at M 4.2 million and in FY2000 - M 9.9 million. If the
payments of interest and principal on loans that financed the Central and Southern Network project were
reflected in LEC's accounts, the loss would be M 6.2 million and M 15.4 million respectively.
- 71 -



Table 2: LEC's Summary Balance Sheets (FY93-FYOO)
(Maloti '000)
Summary
Balance Sheet
Fiscal year ending   Actual   Actual      Actual    Actual     Actual     Estimate   Estimate   Estimate
March 31                                                                   d          d          d
1993       1994        1995       1996      1997        1998       1999       2000
Fixed Assets
Net book value     116,320    118,918     120,039    120,436    123,869    127,485    142,000    146,840
Capital work in   3,996       5,347       12,995    32,047     41,638     39,649     44,000      48,465
progress
120.316    124,266     133.034    152,483    165506    167.133    186000    195',305
Current Assets
Stock             2,615       3,337      3,247      6,791      8,618      4,264      4,199       3,257
Accounts          22,988      27,645      31,115    32,744     22,354     41,237     42,998      61,588
receivable
Cash and cash     18,423      28,220     24,814      11,991    5,361       1,719      1,719      1,720
equivalents
4426       5922        59,17      51526     36333       47220      48.916     66,564
Current
Liabilities
Accounts payable   10,225     16,927      13,323     13,528    13,621      16,770     30,000     60,000
Other             15,867      20,097      19,611    22,580     14,250      16,522     18,423     19,282
26,092     37.024      32,934     36,108     27.871     33,292     48.423     79,282
Net Current        17,934     22,179      26,241     15,418    8,462       13,928     493        (12,718)
Assets
Total Net Assets    138,250   146,444     159,275    167,901    173,968    181,061    186,493    182,587
- 72 -



Long Term Debt    12,118    12,641    6,683      6,683     6,683     13,945    22,753     20,847
Equity           126,132    133,804    152,592   161,218   167,285    167,116    163,740    161,740
Total Debt and   138,250    146,444    159,275   167,901   173,968   181,061   186,493    182,587
EquityI                                                             I
Current ratio         1.7       1.6     1.8      1.4     1.3    1.4       1.0     0.8
Debt to Equity        0.23     0.27     0.21    0.21    0.17    0.22     0.30     0.38
Accounts receivable   123       119     141      138     95      173      177     234
(days)
9.    LEC's liquidity position is precarious as demonstrated in the balance sheets and calls for the
following comments:
*   LEC's liquidity problem is due to weak collections. Accounts receivable of LEC increased from M 23
million in FY93 to M 62 million in FY2000, equivalent to eight months of sales.
* In recent years accounts payable increased tremendously and tripled in FY2000 as compared to FY98.
Due to severe cash constraints LEC was unable to pay its suppliers. In early 2000 the govemment
waived M 50 million of LEC arrears to LHDA for the energy supply. This helped resulted in the
sharp reduction of accounts payable during FY0 1.
10.   In summary, LEC's financial performance has been unsatisfactory. The management was
dependent on government support to maintain the utilities operations. As a result it was not able to allocate
sufficient resources to meet the system's operation and maintenance requirements and contribute towards
the financing of an investment program commensurate with the requirements of the sector. On the other
hand, the govemment required LEC to engage into not economically viable investments, without providing
subsidies for such activities which had a detrimental impact on the utility's operations.
11.   To improve LEC's operational and financial performance the government made a decision to
privatize LEC and to hire an outside management team to run the utility in the interim. The IMTF will be
also mandated prepare the accounts for FY98, FY99 and FY2000 and have them audited. Credit meters
will be replaced by prepayment meters to improve the situation with receivables. A new agreement with
LHDA will allow to lower the cost of electricity purchases.
III.   Financial Prospects
12.   The financial prospects of LEC are summarized in Table 3 and Table 4 below. The following
assumptions have been made for the preparation of the financial projections of LEC performance during
the project period:
- 73 -



*   The credit for the implementation of the project is assumed by the GoL without on-lending to LEC.
*   The outstanding loans for the implementation of the Central and Southern Network project are assumed
by the GoL.
*   Annual demand growth is at a rate of 5 percent in fiscal 2001- fiscal 2004.
*   Total losses are assumed at a level of 17 percent in fiscal 2001, 14 percent in fiscal 2002, 10 percent in
fiscal 2003 and 8 percent in fiscal 2004.
*   Average tariff is M 0.34 per kWh; no tariff increase is assumed.
*   Average energy purchase price is M 0.14 per kWh, irrespective of the source of supply (LHDA or
ESKOM).
*   Operation and maintenance costs are 12 percent of electricity sales.
*   Labor costs increase at a rate of 10 percent per annum. The retrenchment program under the Interim
Management Task Force starts in fiscal 2001: out of existing 631 employees 100 staff are retrenched
in fiscalOl and 160 in fiscal 2002, bringing the total number of employees to 471 from fiscal 2002
onwards. The cost of retrenchment packages, M 3.12 million, is paid out of LEC's earnings, an
average package amount is M 12,000.
*   The new investment is limited to the program financed under the project.
Effective tax rate is 35 percent of net earnings.
The investment program financed by the project is implemented as follows: 1000 prepayment meters are
installed in fiscal 2001 and the rest of the meters are installed in fiscal 2002; new connections are
implemented in fiscal 2002.
Existing assets are depreciated at the rate of 5 percent per annum - straight line depreciation over 20 years.
New additions (meters and distribution lines) financed by the project are depreciated over 25 years (4
percent per annum).
Accounts receivable in fiscal 2001 are reduced by the amount of M 50 million which the govemment paid
for the LEC's arrears to LHDA. Due to the change to prepayment system and improved collections,
accounts receivable in fiscal 2002 decrease to 15 percent of sales and to 10 percent of sales from fiscal
2003 onwards.
- 74 -



13.    Based on the assumptions listed above, LEC starts to make profit, M 1.5 million, in fiscal 2002.
In fiscal 20 03 it makes a profit of M 2.5 million and in fiscal 2004 - M 2.7 million.
14.    Sensitivity analysis has been done using several variables:
(a)   losses are maintained at the current level of 17 percent throughout the project;
(b)    only 85 percent of the revenue is collected;
(c)    average purchase price of energy is M 0.16 per kWh.
This would have the following negative effects on LEC's profitability (M '000):
Table 3: LEC's Projected Summary Balance Sheets
(Maloti '000)
(a)
2000             2001             2002              2003             2004
Net Income       (9,851)          (3,392)          690               460               (21)
(b)
2000             2001             2002              2003             2004        l
Net Income       (9,851)          (15,627)          (6,842)          (6,303)           (6,519)
(c)
2000             2001             2002              2003             2004
Net Income       (9,851)          (10,075)         (2,935)           (2,037)           (1,955)
15.    A business-as-usual scenario for Basotho electricity sector is unacceptable. Currently the steps are
being taken to improve the operational and financial performance of LEC, but they can be sustained only if
reform measures are implemented - introduction of a new management team and eventual private sector
ownership and management of the utility. Private ownership will provide the right opportnity for instilling
commercial discipline in the sector and promote positive change.
- 75 -



tYear 1     Year 2         Year 3         0Year 4  Year   Year 6           .Year 7
Total Finaning Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             62        14.2       15.2         1.4        0.0        0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs              0.8        0.8         0.8        0.6        0.0         0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs            7.0       15.0       16.0        2.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Financing                7.0       15.0       16.0         2.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDaIDA                    3.0        9.0        14.6        2.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Government                  0.5                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Central                  0.2        2.5        0.5        0.0         . .   
Provincial               0.3        0.5        0.0        0.0         0.0       0 0         0 0
Co-financiers               0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0. O       O 
User Fees/Beneficiaries                0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Others                      3.0        3.0         1.5        1.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing       6.5       12.0       16.1         3.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Main assumptions:
IDA is financing a total of US$28.6 million out of the overall project size of US$39.4 million. The bulk of
IDA's disbursements will occur in Years 2 and 3 of the Project. These are related to the payments under the
TA contracts for IMTF and the Sales Advisors and the establishment and capacity building of the regulators.
Year 4 disbursements (will) primarily reflect the implementation of the Electricity Access Pilots.
The African Development Bank is financing all of the 6,000 connections to be installed by the IMTF. The
majority of these are expected to occur in Year 2 of the project. The upfront disbursements are related to the
communications program and the study tours etc. for the regulatory staff. Year 3 disbursements are primarily
connected to implementation support to the PU.
- 76 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
LESOTHO: Utilities Sector Reform Project
Procurement
Procurement Environment. A Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) was prepared in 1997. It
concluded that the existing procurement law and regulations are inadequate to provide the necessary
guidance for public procurement, which hampered project implementation and disbursement of funds. The
Central Tender Board has centralized procurement decision making and low thresholds for prior review are
overburdening it with reviews while it is understaffed and ill-equipped to oversee public procurement. The
procurement proficiency of staff involved in procurement is quite low. The recommendations included the
preparation of a new procurement law and in the short term use the most efficient procurement services
(Ministry of Works) to implement procurement. In the longer term, procurement should be decentralized
accompanied by a broad procurement training program. It is being considered that a public administration
reform project which is in preparation would include a procurement reform component.
Use of Bank Guidelines
The procurement of works and goods will be in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits (January 1995, lastly revised in January 1999). The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents
and the Standard Evaluation Report will be used. For National Competitive Bidding (NCB), the Bank's
SBDs will be used suitably adapted. For NCB procedures, the government will give assurances during
negotiations that: (a) bids will be advertised in national newspapers with wide circulation; (b) methods
used in the evaluation of bids and the award of contracts are made known to all bidders and not be applied
arbitrarily; (c) any bidder is given adequate response time (four weeks minimum) for the preparation and
submission of bids; (d) bid evaluation and bidder qualifications are clearly specified in the bidding
documents; (e) no preference margin is granted to domestic contractors, manufacturers or suppliers; (f)
eligible firms, including foreign finns, are not precluded from participation; (g) award will be made to the
lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with pre-determined and transparent methods.
Aggregate values for NCB for goods and works are limitative and should not be exceeded without prior
IDA no-objection. The Privatization Unit, which will implement the procurement under the project, will
maintain a tracking record to monitor when aggregate values are being reached in order to advise IDA
timely when this occurs to establish the appropriate procurement method for subsequent procurement.
Consultants services will be contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, lastly revised in January 1999). The
Bank's Standard Request for Proposals will be used as well as the Sample Form of Evaluation Report for
the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. Standard forms of contract will be used for
time-based or lump-sum contracts, and simplified contracts may be used for short-term assignments not
exceeding six months.
- 77 -



Advertising
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared and issued in the United Nations Development
Business (UNDB), as well as in the local newspapers to advertise for any ICB for goods and for major
consulting assignments to obtain expressions of interest. The GPN will also be issued in the national press
for contracts to be let under NCB. The GPN will be updated annually for bids still to be launched. Specific
Procurement Notices (SPN) and Expressions of Interest (EOI) for large contracts for consultants services
(above US$200,000) will also be advertised in Development Business and sufficient time will be allowed
for responses to such notices (minimum 30 days) before preparing the short list. Advertisements for EOIs
even below these limits are generally beneficiary to the implementing agency to obtain the best possible
candidates for the assignment.
Procurement Capacity.
A capacity assessment of the Privatization Unit (PU) was carried out as well as Lesotho Electricity
Company (LEC). Although linked with the Ministry of Finance, the PU operates as an independent agency
and has several staff familiar with IDA financed procurement because of their prior experience under the
IDA financed Privatization and Private Sector Development Project. Its procurement performance is
reasonably satisfactory, but procurement in Lesotho still needs close supervision. Procurement expertise in
LEC is substantially weaker and LEC will therefore not be associated with the procurement process. Since
the AfDB uses Standard Bidding Documents similar to those of IDA, AfDB financed procurement should
also not encounter major problems in the PU. The CTB may be involved in an oversight function but since
standard Bank documents and procedures will be used which are familiar to the CTB, no conflicts are
expected in the implementation. The action plan to strengthen the procurement function of PU includes
training and regular supervision of visiting Bank missions (once every four months is recommended during
the first year, and semi-annually thereafter). The prior review thresholds have been set in accordance with
the capacity assessment and the overall procurement risk is rated "average". The Interim Management Task
Force, which has been recruited under the PPF, will provide additional procurement capacity under its
terns of reference.
Procurement Plan
A procurement plan is being prepared by GoL and will be incorporated into the Project Implementation
Plan (PIP) as a condition for project effectiveness. The plan, which will include the contributions of other
cofinanciers, was discussed during negotiations.
Procurement Implementation Arrangements.
The Privatization Unit will be responsible for procurement funded by the Project. It will handle the
procurement requests of each implementing agency according to monthly procurement schedules submitted
to it. In addition, the Interim Management Task Force (IMTF) will provide procurement services under its
contract. Where IMTF manages procurement, it will do so in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
procurement using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. The PU will maintain a suitable filing system
of procurement documentation for review by visiting procurement missions and technical audits.
Procurement Methods (Table A)
The procurement methods, expenditure category and costs are summarized in Table A below. Thresholds
- 78 -



for procurement methods and prior review are summarized in Table B. Contracts for similar works and
goods, to the extent feasible, will be grouped into larger bid packages up to US$100,000, so that they can
be launched by NCB, or ICB should they exceed this amount, in order to obtain more favorable prices.
Works. Only small works (about US$ 100,000) are included in the project to improve the facilities of the
Telecommunications Regulatory Authority and will be contracted by NCB. [In the event that small
contractors will be used for works in remote areas, for contracts costing between US$20,000 - US$50,000,
up to an aggregate value of $200,000, the Africa simplified procurement procedures will be followed by
obtaining quotations from at least three qualified small contractors. Contracts may be procured under
lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of written quotations to bid. The invitation will
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a
basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings where applicable. The awards will be
made to the contractors who offer the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided they have the
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.]
Goods. Goods will include packages to install new electricity interconnections, the change over to prepaid
meters, the purchase of frequency monitoring equipment, and equipment and materials required for the pilot
electricity and telecommunications access program in rural areas. International competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures will be used for procurement packages for goods estimated to cost US$100,000 or more.
National competitive bidding (NCB) will be used for goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000
equivalent per contract up to an aggregate value of $500,000, and works estimated to cost $50,000
equivalent or more per contract. For goods purchased through ICB, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference of 15 percent to domestic manufacturers of goods in accordance with the Guidelines referred to
above. Intemational, or national shopping procedures, based on a comparison of written price quotations
obtained following written solicitations issued to at least three qualified suppliers, may be used for the
purchase of goods costing less than US$30,000 per contract up to an aggregate value of US$75,000. The
written solicitation will include specifications and request infomnation on delivery time should the goods not
be immediately available. In the event of Intemational Shopping, quotations will be solicited from at least
three suppliers in two different countries. Quotations will be opened and evaluated at the same time, and an
evaluation report will be prepared for review by procurement supervision missions and technical audits.
Consulting Services. The Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) methodology was used to select the
firm that will manage the Unit Trust which holds shares of privatized companies for sale to Basotho
investors, and the Interim Management Task Force. This method will also be used for the Sales Advisory
Group, the regulatory advisors, and other services estimated to cost US$100,000 or more per contract.
The least cost selection method will be used for audit services estimated to cost US$100,000 or less.
Individual consultants will be recruited following Section V of the Guidelines. Consulting services for
specific technical advice estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and for training services estimated to cost
more than US$20,000 per training course will be selected using the Consultant's Qualification (CQ)
method.
IDA's Prior Review
IDA's prior review will be required for all contracts for goods procured under ICB. In addition, the first
two NCB contracts for goods below the threshold of US$ 100,000, as well as each contract for works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, will be subject to prior review. For consultancy
services, IDA's prior review will be required for: (i) all contracts based on the QCBS methodology
estimated to cost US$100,000 and above. This will include IDA review of the technical evaluation before
opening of the financial proposals; and (ii) for individual consultant contracts amounting to $50,000 and
- 79 -



above, and the first two contracts below this amount, which should include the qualifications, experience,
terms of reference and terms of employment. In addition, all terms of reference irrespective of the contract
value, and all single source contracts are subject to prior review. Annual training programs will be
reviewed with IDA prior to initiation.
Procurement Supervision
In accordance with the procurement capacity assessment, procurement supervision missions will be carried
out quarterly during the first year and semi-annually thereafter. This will include post-review and audits.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: Monitoring and Evaluation will be guided by the project
design summary in Annex I and the Implementation Plan through: (a) quarterly progress reports, prepared
by the Privatization Unit; and (b) Bank supervision missions, annual progress review and project mid-term
review. The government will transmit an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) fbr the project, within
six months of credit closing, to IDA.
The PU will consolidate and analyze statistical, financial and physical data on the implementation of the
project. Quarterly progress reports will be prepared by the PU and submitted to the MOF and IDA. The
monitoring and outcome indicators provided in Annex 1 will provide the government, IDA and other donors
witli measures to determine progress and form the basis for joint supervision.
Formal supervision will take place twice a year to review implementation progress. The government, IDA
and other donors will jointly prepare the terms of reference and will participate in the mission. A mid-term
evaluation of the project will take place no later than 24 months after Credit effectiveness in accordance
with terms of reference agreed upon by the government, IDA and other donors. The PU will prepare a
mid-term report detailing implementation progress under all the project components and identifying
implementation issues. This report will be sent to the govemment, IDA and other donors not later than two
months prior to the mid-term review. During the mid-term review, in response to the implementation issues
identified, solutions will be developed. If required, project redesign steps will be taken. The ICR will also
be jointly prepared by the PU and IDA witiin six months after the closing date of the Credit.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
W~
1. Works                         0.00          0.10          0.00          2.00         2.10
(0.00)       (0. 10)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0. 10)
2. Goods                         6.80          0.20          0.00          9.80         16.80
(6.80)       (0.20)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (7.00)
3. Services                      0.00          0.00          15.29         1.90         17.19
- 80 -



Consultant                          (0.00)         (0.00)        (14.29)        (0.00)        (14.29)
Services/Communication,
Studies, Training
4. Operating Cost                   0.00           0.00           1.70           0.30           2.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.60)         (0.00)         (1.60)
5. Retrenchment Package             0.00           0.00           0.00           1.90           1.90
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
6. PPF Refinance plus               0.00            0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
Unallocated expenditures           (0.00)          (0.00)         (6.00)         (0.00)        (6.00)
Total                            6.80           0.30           16.99          15.90         39.99
(6.80)         (0.30)        (21.89)         (0.00)        (28.99)
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 81 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Exp~kur             XV                                                             ToaICs
A. Firms            12.70     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.40      13.10
(11.70)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (11.70)
B. Individuals      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      2.90      4.20       1.40      8.50
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.90)     (1.20)    (0.00)    (3.10)
Total  12.70      0.00      0.00       0.00      2.90      4.20       1.80      21,60
(11.70)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.90)    (1.20)    (0.00)    (14.80)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 82 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works                        <100                     NCB                      0.1
2. Goods                        >=l00                    ICB                       6.8
>30<100                   NCB                firsttwo contracts
<30                   Shopping                 ex-post
3. Services
Firms                           >=100                   QCBS                      11.5
(LCS for Auditor)              0.1
CQ
<100           (technical advice/training
Individuals                    >50,000                    IC                   >=$50,000
<$50,000
first two contracts
others ex-post
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$19.0 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 months during the first year,
semi-annually thereafter months (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Ex-post reviews: I out of 6 contracts
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 83 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement Arran2ements
Disbursements and withdrawal procedures are detailed in the World Bank Disbursement Handbook (1992
edition). All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the Development Credit Agreement and the
procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter. The proposed IDA credit of US$ 28.6 million would be
disbursed over four years with an expected Project Completion Date of June 30, 2005 and a Closing Date
of December 30, 2005. The proposed allocation of Credit Proceeds is shown in table C below.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
g pndii,,e Cate:gory         AmBB a .... OS$riilin    :     i#0ancin v  -' jtag.
Works                                       0.10           100% of foreign and 95% of local costs
Goods                                       7.10           100% of foreign and 95% of local costs
Consultancy Services                        14.80                         100
Operating Costs                             1.60                           90
Refunding of Project Preparation            2.10                         100%
Advance
Unallocated                                 2.90           100% of foreign and 95% of local costs
Total Project Costs                         28.60
Total                                      28.60
The Privatization Unit (PU) will be responsible for processing all disbursement requests while ensuring that
financial management and reporting procedures for the project meet GOL and the World Bank standards. A
Financial Management Action Plan has been developed to lay out an essential institutional set-up and
intemal controls mechanisms as well as to set forth necessaiy actions for systems development for sound
financial management, and incorporate them in the Financial Procedures Manual. As the PU is not yet
ready for Project Management Report (PMR)-based disbursements, existing disbursement procedures, as
outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook, will be followed. This means direct payment,
reimbursement and special commitment. However, the development of the PU's financial management
system, in accordance with the Financial Management Action Plan, is expected to facilitate the introduction
of PMR-based disbursements within about 18 months of credit effectiveness.
Use of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs):
All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit Account will be fully documented except for
expenditures against contracts (a) with an estimated value of US$100,000 or less for works, goods and
consulting firms; and (b) contracts with an estimated value of US$50,000 or less for individual consultants;
(c) all operating costs which may be claimed on the basis of certified statements of expenditure (SOE).
Documents supporting these expenditures would be retained by PU and other implementing agencies for
- 84 -



their respective components, and will be available for review upon request by IDA supervision missions
and project auditors.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for works, goods and services, the government will
open a Special Account within a commercial bank maintained by the Central Bank in US Dollars to coveI
part of IDA's share of eligible expenditures to be managed and administered by the PU under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. The authorized allocation of US$ 1 million for the Special Account will
cover an estimated four months of eligible expenditures financed by IDA. Initially, the authorized
allocation will be limited to an amount of US$0.5 million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from
the credit account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered shall be equal to
SDR 3 million. Replenishment of funds from IDA will be made upon evidence of satisfactory utilization of
the advance, reflected in the Statement of Expenditures (SOE) or on full documentation of payments above
the SOE thresholds. Replenishment applications should be submitted montly, but not exceeding three
month intervals. To the extent possible, all of IDA's share of expenditures should be paid through the
Special Account. If ineligible expenditures are found to have been made from the Special Account, the
government will be obligated to refund the cost and submit evidence with the next request for
replenishment. In addition, if the Special Account remains inactive for more than six months, the
government may be requested to refund to IDA the amounts advanced in the Special Account.
Financial Management
PU has familiarity with IDA procedures. IDA staff conducted a financial management assessment and
made recommendations to strengthen PU's capacities. As part of this assessment, a Financial Management
Action Plan has been prepared.
A Financial Management Committee is being established and will be responsible for the overall policy
guidance of the project's financial management. The committee will include representatives of the
Mfinistries of Finance, Planning, the project Director, the project accountant and the procurement specialist.
A qualified Chief Accountant with proficiency in computer applications and good communication skills,
has been recruited to direct the financial management operations of the Project. The Chief Accountant will
be assisted by a senior accountant and relevantly qualified and experienced procurement,
administrative/support staff. As required, staff training will be provided in: financial management
(including internal controls), information systems and computer applications, procedures relating to use of
funds, e.g., IDA (Special Accounts, SOEs, Special Commitments, Procurement, LACI, etc.) and
government regulations, performance measurement; general professional skills (presentation, analytical,
negotiating, counseling and writing).
The Financial Procedures Manual is being prepared and will document the internal control procedures to be
followed by the PU and computerized systems will be set up to enable the PU to maintain accounting
records in accordance with international accounting standards and practices. The strengthened PU will
prepare and distribute consolidated periodic reports (Progress Reports) reflecting: the status of
implementation progress, problems encountered and corrective actions needed; and current costs of each
- 85 -



project component together with estimated costs of completion.
Financial reports generated by the financial management system will be communicated to the Financial
Management Committee on a quarterly basis and will include comparison of actual against budgeted
amounts; monthly special account reconciliation with bank and loan statements and quarterly and
semi-annual eligible disbursement analysis with actual compared to budget; and bi-annual financial report
indicating variances between actual outputs and matched costs compared to forecasts and measured against
budget.
Other monitoring reports that will be provided on a quarterly basis include: (a) financial statements
documenting the sources and uses of funds by loan category and by project activity, forecasting
expenditure, disbursement amount and reconciliation of the special account, and summarizing credit
withdrawals using statement of expenditures; (b) project progress reports providing information on project
implementation progress in physical and financial terms and covering monitoring indicators including
deviations from plan and reasons thereof; (c) procurement management reports indicating the status of
procurement and contract commitments and expenditure.
The PU will enforce all internal control procedures according to the Financial Procedures Manual, will
document all the accounting procedures and internal controls. Internal controls for the PU would comprise
policies and procedures adopted by management to assist it in achieving its objectives of ensuring, as far as
possible, the orderly and efficient conduct of its operations, including: (a) adherence to management
policies, laws and regulations; (b) safeguarding of assets; prevention and detection of fraud and error; (c)
promoting orderly, economic, efficient and effective operations consistent with the project objectives;
accuracy and completeness of the accounting records; and (d) preparing on a timely basis all required
financial information.
The PU will keep the finds from IDA and, in due course, each other donor, in separate accounts but will
move toward common procurement, financial management and auditing procedures acceptable to all
partners. Financial statements will show all expenditures and the source of funds. For IDA funds, the PU
will maintain accounting records including maloti, dollar and SDR movements in respect of the bank
account and, in accordance with good accounting practice, accounting records will be reconciled monthly
by the PU with the bank statements for the account upon its receipt.
Project accounts will be audited annually according to international auditing standards by an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA; Special accounts and all disbursements under Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs) will be audited semi-annually. The annual audit report will be submitted to IDA within six months
of the end of each fiscal year, and the semi-annual audit report within three months of each period. The
auditors will provide a management letter that recommends improvements to the accounting records,
systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants. Two copies of the audit reports will be
forwarded to the FMC and IDA by the PU six months after the end of the fiscal year. The project will
finance preparation of the audit reports except the final one which will be funded by the government. In
Lesotho, the Office of the Auditor General is responsible for the external auditing of all government funds.
Besides expressing a primary opinion on the Annual Financial Statements in compliance with International
Auditing Standards (IFAC/INTOSAI pronouncements), the auditor will be required to include a separate
paragraph commenting on the accuracy and propriety of expenditures withdrawn under SOE procedures
and the extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis for loan disbursements. The auditor will also be
expected to form an opinion as to the degree of compliance with World Bank procedures on the special
account and the balance at the year-end.
- 86 -



By project effectiveness, the financial management arrangements are not expected to be ready for
PMR-based disbursements, as discussed in the World Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative
Handbook (LACI, September 1998). Thus, in the short-tenn, existing disbursement procedures, as
outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook, will be followed, i.e., direct payment,
reimbursement, etc. Also, the timely appointment of the proposed Project Accountant, coupled with the
development of the PASPU's financial management system, is expected to facilitate the introduction of
Project Management Report (PMR) based disbursements by end-2002.
- 87 -



LESOTHO: UTILITIES SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
Annex 6D: Financial Management Action Plan
A. GENERAL
Under the supervision of the Project Director, the Project Accounts Section of the Privatization Unit
(PASPU) will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures will be
acceptable to the Government, the World Bank and other Cooperating Partners.
The principal objective of the PASPU's financial management system (FMS) will be to support
management in their deployment of limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency
and effectiveness in the delivery of outputs required to achieve desired outcomes, that will serve the
needs of the people of Lesotho. Specifically, the FMS must be capable of producing timely,
anderstandable, relevant and reliable financial information that will enable management to plan,
implement, monitor and appraise the project's overall progress towards the achievement of its
objectives.
For the PASPU to fully deliver on the aforementioned objectives, it's FMS will be developed in
accordance with the Financial Management Action Plan presented in Section B below.
B.  FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN
Financial Management Committee fFMC)
A representative FMC will be appointed to review the ProjectManagement Report (PMR) every
quarter. The PMR will comprise:
Pinancial Statements, as discussed below. Members of the FMC will review and approve Quarterly
and Annual Financial Statements; they will also examine material variances between budget/actual
figures, seeking remedial action as appropriate within an agreed timeframe.
Proiect Progress, i.e. Ouiput Monitoring Report (OMR). The format and details of the OMR will
need to be developed. An important aspect of the OMR will be the accompanying narrative
interpreting the Project's progress with agreed financial performance indicators and how costs to date
relate to those planned at appraisal, and the likely effect on the Project by completion.
Procurement Management Report (including Goods, Works and Services).
Staffing
A Chief Accountant will be appointed to direct and guide the financial operations. Relevantly
qualified/experienced support staff will be available. Varying levels of staff training will be required
in financial, management and government accounting; information systems and computer applications;
and procedures relating to the utilization of funds (e.g. Special Accounts, SOEs, Special
Commitments, Procurement, etc.). On-the-job coaching will also be provided.
F`inancial Procedures ManuaUlAccounting System
- 88 -



A Financial Management Consultant has been retained to develop and install the Project's FMS
(manual and computerized) and to prepare the Project's Financial Procedures Manual.
Provision has been made in the Budget for hardware and software requirements.
Planning and Budgeting
Counterpart Funding will be approved in line with the Government's budgetary process. The Chief
Accountant, in consultation with the Project Director and the FMC, will be responsible for preparing
the Project's Quarterly/Annual Cash Flow Forecast in line with generally accepted accounting
practice.
Government Accounting-Cash Versus Accruals Bases
The PASPU will meet the Treasury's requirement for cash accounting. This requirement is not
expected to change in the short to medium term. Thus, for the foreseeable future, project funds will be
accounted for on a cash basis. In due course, for management reporting purposes, the FMC will
decide whether to convert to an accruals accounting basis.
Procurement of Goods, Works and Services
World Bank and Governmcnt procurement regulations will be observed. The Chief Accountant and
support staff will be conversant with those procedures, as intemal control issues and the incurring of
liabilities on behalf of the project will be matters of concem to the financial management function.
Procurement procedures will be documented in the Financial Procedures Manual. A Procurement
Management Report, showing procurement status and contract commitments, will be prepared
quarterly for consideration by the FMC (see above).
BankingActivities-Flowv Of Funds
The PASPU will maintain 4 accounts as follows:
(a) Current Account in Maloti with Bank X (Part 1 Account) to which draw-downs from the Special
Account will be credited for project financing and administrative expenses.
(b) Current Project Account in Maloti with Bank X (Part 2 Account) to which Counterpart Funding
will be deposited. Initially, a three months float will be provided and, thereafter, it will be
replenished monthly.
(c) Special Account with Bank X in US Dollars/Maloti, which will show:
I      Dollar/Maloti cost of transfers to Part 1 Account with Bank X;
P      Dollar/Maloti cost of direct payments to suppliers;
P     Dollar advances (Maloti cquivalent cost) from the IDA Ledger Loan Account;
- 89 -



P      Opening and Closing Balances.
(d) IDA Ledger Loan Account (Washington) in US Dollars/Maloti/SDR, which will show:
P      Cost of transfers to Bank X;
p      Cost of direct paymen1ts to suppliers;
P      Opening and Closing Balances.
Bank accounts will be reconciled monthly; identified differences will be expeditiously investigated.
Control procedures will be documented in the Financial Procedures Manual.
Withdrawals/Disbursements
By effectiveness, the PASPU will not be ready for PMR-based disbursements (World Bank's Loan
Administration Change Initiative Handbook, LACI, September 1998). Thus, in the short term,
existing disbursement procedures as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook will be
followed, i.e. Direct Pav'nicit, Reimbursement and Special Commitment. However, the appointment
of the Chief Accountant, coupled with the development of the PASPU's financial management
systems, should facilitate the introduction of PMR-based disbursements within 18 months of credit
effectiveness.
In due course, the adoption of PMR-based disbursements (which integrates project accounting,
procurement, contract maniagement, disbursement and audit with physical progress through the Project
Management Report, as summarized above) should enable the PASPU to move away from
time-consuming voucher-by -voucher disbursement methods to quarterly disbursements to the Special
Account based on the PMR.
FixedAssets/Consultantsl/Civil Works
Control procedures will be documented in the Financial Procedures Manual. A Fixed Assets Register
will be prepared, regularly updated and checked. Regarding Construction/Capital Work in Progress,
controls will be established to ensure that payments are made only for certified work (including
physical verification). A Contracts Register will be maintained for all contracts with consultants. A
Procurement Management Report, showing procurement status and contract commitments, will be
prepared quarterly for consideration by the FMC.
Financial Reporting (Mont7hly and Quarterly/Annually)
Monthly Cash Reporting
In compliance with Govemment reporting requirements, the Chief Accountant will be responsible for
preparing a Monthly Return to the Treasury (MOF) for incorporation into the National Accounts.
Quarterly/Annuailly
The Financial Statements. following determination by the FMC, are likely to include:
- 90 -



*   A Consolidated Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds (IDA, Counterpart and
Donor Funds);
*  Project Balance Sheet as at the reporting date;
*  Notes on significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by
management when preparing the accounts; and on any supplementary information or
explanations that may be deemed appropriate by management to enhance the
presentation of a "true and fair view";
*  A Statement reconciling the balances on the various Bank Accounts (including the IDA
Special Account) to the bank balances on the Statement of Sources and Applications of
Funds;
*   SOE Withdrawal Schedule, listing individual withdrawal applications relating to
disbursements by the SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount;
*  A Cash Forecast for the next two quarters.
Indicative formats for Financial Statements are outlined in a number of World Bank publications -
Financial Accounting Rcporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH, January 1995), The Loan
Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September 1998) and the Draft Project Financial
Management Manual (February 1999). In due course, the formats adopted by the FMC will be
documented in the Financial Procedures Manual.
External Audit
Audited financial statements will be submitted to the Bank within six months after the financial
year end. In Lesotho, as outlined in the Constitution of Lesotho 1993, the Office of the Auditor
General (AG) is responsiblc for the extemal auditing of all government Funds. Besides expressing a
primary opinion on the financial statements in compliance with Intemational Auditing Standards
(IFAC/INTOSAI pronouncements), the AG will be required to include a separate paragraph
commenting on the accuracy and propriety of expenditures withdrawn under SOE procedures and
the extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis for loan disbursements. Regarding the Special
Account, the AG will also be expected to form an opinion as to the degree of compliance with World
Bank procedures and the balance at the year-end. Additionally, the AG will be required to prepare a
separate Management Letter giving observations and comments, and providing recommendations
for improvements of accounting records, systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants.
- 91 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
LESOTHO: Utilities Sector Reform Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       9                             11
First Bank mission (identification)              03/12/2000                    03/12/2000
Appraisal mission departure                      09/01/2000                    09/01/2000
Negotiations                                     10/15/2000                    02/14/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    06/15/2001
Prepared by:
Preparation assistance:
PPF Q238-0-LSO
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Mohua Mukherjee                    Team Leader
Gaiv Tata                          Subregional Manager
Ludmilla Butenko                   Financial Specialist
Alfred Gulstone                    Power Specialist
Gareth Locksley                    Telecommunication Specialty
Serigne Omar Fye                   Environmental Specialist
Francesco Sarno                    Procurement Specialist
Anthony Martin Hegarty             Financial Management Advisor
Marilyn Manalo                     Operations Officer
Richard Cambridge                  Overall Project Quality Advisor
T. Mpoy-Kamulayi                   Lawyer
Irene F. Chacon                    Program Assistant
Rona Cook                          Team Assistant
- 92 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
LESOTHO: Utilities Sector Reform Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
First draft provided by Pnrvatization Unit in November 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. "Small-Scale Enterprises in Lcsotho: Summary of a Countrywide Survey," GEMINI (Growth and Equity
through Microenterprise Investments and Institutions) Project, Technical Report No. 14.
2. 1993 Sechaba Household Survey for Lesotho.
3. Jones, Leroy, Pankaj Tandon and Ingo Vogelsang. 1990. Selling Public Enterprises: A Cost Benefit
Methodology. Cambridge MA: MIT Press.
C. Other
*Including electronic files
- 93 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
LESOTHO: Utilities Sector Reform Project
Difference between expecred
and actual
Original Amount in USS Mllions                                disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA         SF       GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Rev'd
P001402       1998 AG POL & CAP BLDG                                   0.00       6.80                            0.00       6.05       3.06      0.00
P058050       2000 Community Development Support Project               0.00      4.67                             0.00       4.83       0.26      0.00
P001409       1998 HILAND WATER IB                                    45.00      0.00                             0.00      38.02      11.02      000
P053200       2000 Health Sector Reform Project                        0 00      6.50                             0.00       6.54       0.00      0.00
P001401       1994 PRIVATISATIONIRESTRU                                0.00      11.00                            0.00       2.52      -1.25      0.00
P001403       1996 ROADREHAB.&MAINT                                    000      40.00                             0.o0      28.79      25.82     21.49
P056416       1999 SECONDEDUSECDEVP                                    0.00     21.00                             0.00      1892        2.89      0.00
Total:      45.00       89.97                            0.00      105.67      41.80     21.49
LESOTHO
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                    Disbursed
IFC                                         IFC
FY Approval               Company                                  Loan    Equity        Quasi    Partic         Loan    Equity        Quasi    Plartic
Total Portfolio:                  0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval               Company                                      Loan       Equity         Quasi        Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                     0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
- 94 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
LESOTHO: Utilities Sector Reform Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Saharan      Low-
Lesotho     Africa   income       Development diamond'
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                          2.1       628      3,515                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                       570       480        520
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                         1.2       304      1,844
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                           2 2        2.6        1.7
Labor force (%)                                          26         26         1 9     GNP                                Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                                  capta                          enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)     49
Urban population (% of total population)                  26         33        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          56        51         63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                  93        91         69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                16          .         .                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                    62         47        74
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      18         42        32
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)     108         77       108                   Lesotho
Male                                                   102        84        113                   Low-income group
Female                                                 114        69        103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ billions)                             0.19     0.37       1 02      087
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  25.0     45.4       85.5      48.6                      Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP              10.7     16.3       32.5      33.5
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    -74 5    -70.0       -9 8      -42.7
Gross national savings/GDP                    -58.0    -41 5       47 2      14.5
Current account balance/GDP                   -90.2    -89.0      -26 3      -27.2     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                           0.1      1 5        1.8       2.4      Sains Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 12.7     69.9       64.5      600       SavigsX
Total debt service/exports                      02       3.5        6.4       8.1
Present value of debt/GDP                         .                46.4
Present value of debt/exports                     .        .       62.4
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997       1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GOP                                    1 8      6.7      8.0       -3.6       5.8                    Lesofho
GNP per capita                       -0 2       1 3      2.1       -5.4       3.8                    Low-income group
Exports of goods and services         1 6       8.0     19.1       15.8      12.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investmentt%)
(% of GDP)                                                                             3
Agriculture                                    34.3     20.1       11.5       11.5
Industry                                       15.5     32.5       42.0      42.0
Manufacturing                                 5.0      149       17.2         ..  o' , ,
Services                                       50 2     47.5       46.5      46 5
Private consumption                           157 2    147.2       82.0     120.9    .20
General government consumption                 17.4     22.8       27 8      21.7                      GDI        eGDP
Imports of goods and services                 110.2    131.8      127.8     124.7
1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and lm ports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    -5.6      2.3        07        4.6    40
Industry                                        41      10 3        1.1     -12.3    30
Manufacturing                                16 5       5.3                   I .    20
Services                                        43       6.0        6.6       4.8
Private consumption                             1 4      -2.7      13.8       5.0    101X                        9       g
General government consumption                  8.0      4.4       17.0       0.9               _             s  96         Os
Gross domestic investment                       2.0     13.3        35       -10.4    15
Imports of goods and services                   2.3      1 6       11.9       1.6                    Exporils    -*Imports
Gross national product                          2.4      36         4.5      -3 1
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-95 -                                                   Lesotho
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE



ANNEX I I
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
LESOTHO
Office Of the Minister
P.O. Box 396
Maseru 100
CPO/C/4/014                                 27 October, 2000
Ms Mohua Mukherjee
Team Leader
AFTPS
Africa Region
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Ms Mukherjee,
LESOTHO: UTILITIES SECTOR REFORM PROJECT (USRP)
A POLICY STATEMENT ON THE RESTRUCTURING
OF THE POWER SECTOR - OCTOBER 2000
Reference is made to the above project, particularly the
Government of Lesotho's Policy Statement on the Restructuring of the
Power Sector.
I have pleasure in submitting the said statement together with
the updated implementation schedule which is attached as an Annex.
Your attention is drawn first to the legal framework and
establishment of a Regulatory Authority for which a draft bill has
been submitted to Cabinet for approval, and second to the
privatization of the Lesotho Electricity Corporation for which
Government of Lesotho has decided to either sell or transfer the
majority shares to the strategic investor.
-96-



2
I hope this response will facilitate finalization of the Aide
Memoire and the signing thereof so"that the target dates for
implementation can be achieved.
Thank you for your usual co-operation.
Yours sincerely
'iOP
MINISTER OF FINANCE AND OF
DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
-97-



MINISTRY QF NATURAL RESOURCES
A POLICY STATEMENT ON THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE POWER
SECTOR. OCTOBER 2000
INTRODUCTION
The Government of Lesotho (GOL) has decided to restructure its power sector with
a view to introducing private sector participation (psp) into the Lesotho Electricity
Corporation (LEC) and commercializing the operations of 'Muela Hydropower
Plant. This document thus presents basic information on GOL's policies for the
sector.
In the early nineteen nineties, GOL embarked on a pnrvatization and private sector
development and reforn programme incorporating the privatization, liquidation
and restructuring of public enterprises over the five-year period 1995 to 2000.
Amnong the main objectives of the GOL  were the improvement of the
competitiveness of its productive sectors and the broadening of local share
ownership in tne enterprises.
Within the power sector in Lesotho, the two institutions that are particularly
affected by the reforms are the Lesotho Electricity Corporation and the 'Muela
Hydropowe- iPlant. Priority has been given to the privatization of LEC due to its
current problems, which include high financial losses, operating inefficiency, non-
competitive tariffs and the inability to meet the demand for electricity connections.
REFORMS
To enable reforms to proceed efficiently in the power sector, GOL has made the
policy decisions provided below. The schedule for implementation of the decisions
is provided in the Annex.
a) Revised Lcgal Framework and Establishment of Regulatory Authority
The provision of services in the power sector by private operators will
require simple and transparent regulation that assures a favourable
environment to attract private investors while also protecting consumers. It
is also necessary to establish an autonomous regulatory authority, which will
-98-



be  part  of  a  multi-sectoral  regulatory  authority  including  the
telecommunications and water sectors.
To this end, a draft bill for the establishment of a regulatory authority is being
finalized and should be submitted to Cabinet%r approval by the end of September
2000. The Bill will then be tabled before Parliament by November 2000.
T1he Bill caters for the restructuring of the sector in the following ways:
a It allows for several generators to operate in the country;
a It allows for several distributors to operate in the country;
* It allows for several transmission/dispatch operators to do business in the
country.   However, to ensure equal access to regional trading and
competition amongst the several stakeholders no single operator will be
licensed to operate the National Control Center (NCC). A mechanism will
have to be put in place which will ensure that all operators share the
responsibility for the NCC in an equitable manner; and
- It is the basis for establishing a regulatory authority. It is planned that the
proposed Lesotho Electricity Authority to be established under the Bill will
be operational by March 2001.
b)   Privatization of the Lesotho Electricity Corporation
GOL has decided that the LEC's privatization will entail either selling or
transferring the majority shares of the corporation to a strategic investor. A
strategic private sector investor is expected to have taken over the utility by April
2002. The final decision on the type of private sectoral participation to be followed
will be made after receiving advice from a sales advisor to be employed by the
Government by not later than December 2000.
With regard to the current mini-hydropower plants owned and operated by LEC,
GOL expects the Sales Advisory Group's Proposals on the appropriate method on
how they should be treated.
Prior to the full privatization of LEC it is necessary to turn around the corporation
and bring it to the level where it would be operating along sound business
principles. To achieve this, Government has decided to employ a team of experts
to take over the management of the corporation and remain in LEC for a period of
eighteen months.
2
-99-



Key issues to be tackled by the new management, the Interim Management Task
Force (IMTF), are financial and operational efficiency of LEC, the connection of
6000 additional consumers, the streamlining of the functions of the utility and the
rightsizing of LEC. The IMTF will also be required to undertake a study and make
recommendations for the optimal service territoiy for a privatized LEC as well as
undertake a study on access to electricity to identify future potential customers
throughout the country. The IMTF is scheduled to commence its duties in
November 2000.
c)   'Muela Hydropower and Future Hydropower Generation Issues
With regard to the 'Muela Hydropower Plant, GOL policies are aimed at ensuring
that it operates as a commercial business. The plant will be expected to sell power
at affordable prices and to contribute to the repayment of the debt accumulated
during its construction.
The GOL will carry out a study on 'Muela, whose findings will assist the
Government in deciding whether 'Mucla should be privatized or not. The
Government will approach the European Union (EU) for financing of the study.
The proposed diagnostic and options study for 'Muela will also consider the future
hydropower generation in consideration of electrification targets and possibilities of
regional power export.
d)   Electricity Tariffs
The overall responsliblity of setting tariffs will lie with the Lesotho Electricity
Authority once it becomes operational. However, since consumer tariffs have not
been reviewed for over six years, the IMTF will be allowed to makc tariff
proposals, which may become effective before the Authority is in its place.
Measures have been taken to bring 'Muela bulk tariffs in line with regional levels.
Of particular consideration has been the tariffs of Eskom, the South African power
utility. Further measures will be taken to determine the bulk tariffs taking into
consideration the Southern African Power Pool rules and guidelines. Once the
Electricity Authority is in place, it will take over this responsibility for setting bulk
tariffs.
-100-
3



Annex
POWER SECTOR REFORM IMPLIMENTATION SCHEDULE
Activities                                      Targets Dates
a)   Privatization of Lesotho Electricity Corporation
1.   Recruitment of IMTF                        December 2000
2.   Commencement of IMTF contract at LEC       January  2001
3.   Recruitment of Sales Advisors              March    2001
4.   Recruitnent of Advisor to LEC Board        January  2001
5.   Selection of Strategic Partner             June 200 1-July 2002
6.   Take over of LEC by partner                August/September 2002
b)   Establishment of Electricity Regulatory Authority
1.   Submission of Electricity Bill to Cabinet  September 2000
2.   Enactment of Electricity Bill               February  2001
3.   Appointment of Regulatory Staff            April      2001
4.   Recruitnent of Electricity Regulatory Advisor    February  2001
5.   Preparation of Approval of Regulations     June       2001
6.   Training of Elec/Telecom Regulators         April 2001 - Dec 2002
5
-101-



The 1993 Power Sales Agreement (PSA) between the Lesotho Highlands
Development Authority (LHDA) and LEC is presently under review. The PSA's
tariffs are being reviewed as a result of GOL approving LHDA's proposal on the
refinancing of 'Muela, but the review is subject to the European Investment Bank's
endorsement of proposed amendments.
-102-



270                                       28                                        290                                         30
This mop was produced by the                      I
Mop Design Unit of The World Bank.            SOUTH           AFRICA
The boundaries, colors,denominations                     TO H
and anyother information shown on this               Bethlehem
mop do not imply, on the part of The
World Bank Group, any judgment on T
the tegalstatus of any territory,or any                       ,.SOTH O
endorsement or acceptance of such     Pretoria 
boundaries.
Pretoriceibe Bjjte 
290                                           _                                                 _                                                   ______________ 2 9
N }                -  8,  -z :>e.,   MAJOR RIVERS
~ Mole~ {I                         t.5 ra /                                          )tsane  ~-->,s  ~ -ROADS
,,,rf  Teyc    Moletane                                 (0 o    SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES
TO                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mokhotlonj
Bloemfontn         AS                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
/o -\I ---- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
J~~~~~~-
4ka                   ed                           o         \ >0 25  50 KILOMETERS
'- D TO             5           25                50 MILES
Bloemf?rtte 4  +*KinE \l  eng                             7Sehlabathebe                                               _
30 0 _ .--    30z
/   To    \  X    t                          Sekake
Aliwa/ North '...  iMohales Hoek                          .-- ~'- achas   k
% oMt. Moorosi       /
),-+ ~    ~                    ( , >-                 Matatiele      .-
--  N  ^     ge<Quthing                                                                                                .       .
TO~~~~~~~~~C
Aliwal North
TO
Queenstown
SOUTH  AFRICA
31  _  .z--o .--. | wi )N01>t t 31 s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
270                                       280                                        29,                                         30               C'(FAN



