Report No. PID9217
Project Name                     Lesotho-Utilities Sector Reform (@)
Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Privatization
Project ID                       LSPE70673
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO
Implementing Agency
Address PRIVATIZATION UNIT,
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
The Director, Privatization Unit,
Private Bag A249, Maseru 100, Lesotho
Contact Person: Mr. M. T. Mashologu,
Director
Tel: 266 317902
Email: dirpp@adelfang.co.za
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                August 21, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         September 4, 2000
Projected Board Date             December 14, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
A major goal of the Bank's country assistance strategy is to help GoL
improve competitiveness and achieve integration into the regional and
global economy. The World Bank has been supporting the privatization and
private sector development process in Lesotho for the past five years.
Low coverage and high cost of infrastructure services (electricity and
telecommunications services are accessible to less than 5 percent of the
population) have been reported as the most significant constraints to
private sector growth, development and competitiveness. Given the large
investment requirements to expand the utilities' networks, GoL has
concluded that it must attract private capital and private management.
In the future, the PSD strategy will aim to attract private sector capital
for manufacturing and service activities that will bring increased
employment opportunities. The project supports the government objective
of giving priority to divestiture from the utilities sectors. This is
proposed to be done through the privatization of Lesotho Electricity
Corporation (LEC) and Lesotho Telecommunications Corporation (LTC),
together with the introduction of a stable, transparent and modern
regulatory framework. These reforms will pave the way for private sector
investment capital and management to help to improve the coverage,
efficiency, affordability and reliability of electricity and
telecommunications services, thus releasing scarce GoL resources to be
redirected to priority activities such as social service delivery. The
project will have some limited poverty reduction elements. Poor households
are expected to receive better quality public services (health,
education), and access to utilities may provide them with opportunities to
engage in informal economic activities. Increased access to electricity
is also expected to reduce the consumption of firewood in rural areas, and



this will bring an accompanying reduction in the rate of environmental
degradation. Telecommunications Sector Issues Telecommunications reform is
being implemented in the context of a regional initiative, and in
collaboration with other donor agencies. Lesotho, as a member of SADC,
signed a Protocol on Transport, Communications and Metrology in 1997 with
the support of USAID. This Protocol provides a framework for legislative
and regulatory reform. A Sector Policy Paper and a Telecommunications Law
have been developed with broad-based donor support (USAID, IDA, Australian
Aid, and Commonwealth Secretariat). The Telecommunications Act was passed
by Parliament in February 2000. Following the passage of the legislation,
however, additional assistance was required to draft and implement
subsequent regulations, especially in technical areas such as
interconnection, tariffs or universal service. The Bank has financed this
follow-up work under the ongoing project, and expects to provide continued
support under the proposed project, with the establishment of the
regulatory body which will be responsible for implementing and enforcing
these regulations. The main issues are the need to: (a) expand access to
telecomm services in urban and rural areas; (b) improve the affordability
and reliability of these services; (c) attract private investment to the
sector, and to attract additional foreign savings to the country to
stimulate economic growth; (d) update the legal and regulatory framework
to enable liberalization of service delivery, and transfer LTC ownership
and management to the private sector; and (e) establish an independent
regulatory body to oversee the interests of all stakeholders in the
sector. The privatization of Lesotho Telecommunications Corporation (LTC)
is underway, and GoL will be provided with adequate support to establish a
regulatory body for the telecommunications sector. Electricity Sector
Issues: The main issues are: (a) financial distress of LEC prevents the
implementation of the country-wide energy master plan, resulting in very
low coverage of the population (only 5t of households); (b) inefficient
service provision, linked to low employee productivity of 18 connections
per employee (regional averages between 60 and 160); (d) the need to
commercialize the Muela hydro-power plant at a reasonable cost to permit
the repayment of commercial bank borrowings. The Government has decided to
privatize LEC, possibly through the sale of a majority of shares to a
strategic investor, and the transfer of full management control to this
investor. To accomplish the privatization, three major actions are
required. First, the Government must put in place a credible regulatory
framework; second, the power system control function must be separated
from LEC; and third, adequate arrangements must be made to reduce staffing
at LEC in a way that essential skills are retained in the country. Draft
legislation for the regulatory framework has already been proposed, and a
task force has now been appointed to finalize the Electricity Bill for
Cabinet Approval. The separation of the system control function will be
guided by advisors that the Government proposes to hire under the
project. It is estimated that some retrenchment may occur at LEC, and
affected staff will have to be provided with comprehensive severance
packages and alternative training. Moreover, for employees who remain in
LEC, on the job training will also be provided to enhance their skills.
These arrangements will be communicated early to staff and customers of
LEC through a strong communications program.
2. Objectives
1. The Project's development objective is to address a specific constraint
that has emerged as a key bottleneck in the implementation of GoL's
-2 -



ongoing private sector-led development strategy. It is to improve the
business infrastructure (electricity and telecommunications services) of
Lesotho, since the present low levels of service coverage have proved to
be a major constraint to attracting private investment in other parts of
the economy. Attracting private (foreign and domestic) savings and
expertise is a cornerstone of GoL's overall private sector-led economic
growth and employment generation strategy, and it is now recognized that
without better business infrastructure, the strategy cannot be implemented
at a pace that will yield the hoped-for results. This project therefore
intends to shift the spotlight of GoL's ongoing privatization program to
the utilities sectors. This is proposed to be done through the
privatization of Lesotho Electricity Corporation (LEC) and Lesotho
Telecommunications Corporation (LTC).
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is uniquely placed to assist the GOL in the provision of this
support, given its: (i) international experience in the process of
regulatory reform in promoting PSP in the telecoms, electricity sectors,
and in the setting up of the accompanying legal and institutional
regulatory framework; (ii) regional role, particularly through the
Southern African Development Community (SADC) in working in concert with
other donors to ensure that national reforms in the electricity and
telecoms sectors, are in harmony with broader regional objectives; and
(iii) international and on-going Lesotho specific privatization
experience.From the Borrower's point of view, the Bank performs a number
of functions that other players cannot replicate:(a) The Bank's presence
in the privatization transaction gives comfort to a broad range of private
potential investors/utilities operators, who would otherwise not
participate in the bidding process for GoL assets. By bringing our
credibility to the process, we ensure that GoL benefits to the maximum
extent by increasing competition and the number of bids.(b) The Bank,
based on its accumulated knowledge, is uniquely able to add the
Electricity Access Pilots dimension to the proposed privatization project,
and can draw on international best practices to discuss with GoL which
innovative strategies may potentially succeed in bringing electricity
coverage to underserved areas. In addition, the Bank is able to
incorporate a possible income generation dimension to this pilot
project.(c) The Bank is able to offer comprehensive retrenchment packages
(severance pay, counseling, training and monitoring and evaluation of the
retrenchment process) in the context of LEC downsizing. This is likely to
make the streamlining process more smooth and pave the way for a
successful outcome of the IMTF contract, as well as increasing confidence
among workers in other soon-to-be privatized companies. (d) The Bank is
able to design and implement a workable solution for Lesotho in order to
ensure a vehicle for local participation, in the form of the Investment
Fund.
4. Description
A. LEC Divestiture and Electricity ExpansionThis component will focus on
upgrading the electricity sector through the inflow of private capital,
new technology and management necessary to increase access and improve the
affordability and reliability of electricity services provided in the
country. It comprises three sub-components:(i) Interim Management Task
Force. (ii) Sales Advisory Group. (iii) Training and Communications.
B. Regulatory Reform Resources will be provided to develop the regulatory
-3 -



framework and establish an independent regulator for the power sector, and
to build capacity in the independent regulatory agency for the
telecommunications sector. The regulators will: enforce appropriate
regulations in the utilities sectors, ensure fair and transparent
treatment of sectoral operators, and encourage new entrants, private
investment and the transfer of technologies. Assistance will also be
provided to a regulatory agency for telecommunications, to implement the
Telecommunications Act which has been passed recently by Parliament. GoL
will be assisted with evaluating the possibility of merging these
regulatory functions together with those for the water sector under a
future multi-sector regulatory agency. C. Support to the Privatization
Unit, as Implementing Agency for the project External support will be
provided to strengthen financial management capacity at PU. D. Future of
Energy Sector in Lesotho This will involve two sub-activities: --To
finance a two part study on the future options related to hydroelectric
power in Lesotho. The first part of the study will specifically recommend
options related to the commercialization of Muela, and the second part
will consider the potential for the development of additional hydropower
resources for export. --Electricity Access Pilots (for areas outside the
commercially viable service territory) This component is intended to
specifically address, on a pilot basis, those areas that will not be
commercially viable, and will remain un-served following the transfer of
LEC ownership from GoL to a private investor. Once the service territory
for the private investor is defined by the IMTF, the Project team, in
consultation with GoL and concerned stakeholders, will seek to identify a
series of "pilot" areas outside the service territory, in which to develop
institutional mechanisms and management arrangements that will allow for
sustainable electricity service delivery, with the capital investment
initially supported by IDA financing. In addition, the Project will seek
to develop access to income generating opportunities / private sector
development in parallel with the access to electricity.E. Private Sector
Development --ongoing support to the Unit Trust to enable future local
participation in the shares of privatized utilities. --a variety of
studies looking at strategies for accelerating private sector development.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT                       1.7
IDA                              16.9
African Development Bank         8
Total Project Cost               26.60
6. Implementation
1. Implementation Period: Four Years; March 2001-March 2005Executing
Agency: Privatization Unit, Ministry of FinanceProject Coordination and
Oversight: Overall coordination and project implementation will be managed
by the Privatization Unit (PU) in the Ministry of Finance. The PU will be
headed by a Director and supported by staff with specialized privatization
skills (financial, technical and legal) and other administrative staff.
The PU will ensure overall coordination and coherence with sector
strategies, in particular those developed with the Ministries of Natural
Resources and Communications. The PU will be in charge of: (a) providing
all the required procurement and disbursement support; (b) receive all
- 4 -



project-related progress reports, review and transmit to the Government
and IDA; (c) monitoring progress via the performance indicators and
organizing supervision missions; (d) supervising the setting up of the
financial and accounting organization for each component; (e) monitoring
budget preparation; and (f) coordinating the preparation and timely
delivery of audits. In terms of specific project component items, the PU
will be responsible for the implementation of the Investment Fund/Unit
Trust, and the private sector development components. Accounting,
Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements: (a) A private professional
accounting firm, acceptable to IDA, will be hired to set up the project
financial and accounting systems using a system satisfactory to IDA; (b)
an accountant will keep and monitor the project's accounts for each
component; (c) project accounts will be audited annually according to
international auditing standards by an independent auditor acceptable to
IDA; (d) special accounts and all disbursements under Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) will be audited semi-annually; and (e) the annual
audit report will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each
fiscal year, and the semi-annual audit report within three months of each
period.A Financial Procedures Manual will document the internal control
procedures to be followed by the PU and computerized systems will be set
up to enable them to maintain accounting records in accordance with
international accounting standards and practices.The PU will keep the
funds from IDA and, in due course, each other donor, in separate accounts
but will move toward common procurement, financial management and auditing
procedures acceptable to all partners. Financial statements will show all
expenditures and the source of funds.Procurement Arrangements: The PU
will be the coordinating agent responsible for all procurement funded by
the Project. It will handle the procurement requests according to monthly
procurement schedules submitted by each implementing agency. Its staff
are fully familiar with Bank procurement procedures based on their
experience gained under the ongoing PPSD. Monitoring and Evaluation
Arrangements: Monitoring and Evaluation will be guided through: (a)
quarterly progress reports, prepared by the Privatization Unit; (b) Bank
supervision missions, annual progress review and project mid-term review;
(c) Government will transmit a project implementation completion report,
within six months of Credit closing, to IDA.
7. Sustainability
It is expected that the utilities sector will be liberalized with several
operators participating in different segments of the market. The reforms
are not easily reversible.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Privatization in Lesotho has been previously supported by one technical
assistance credit. Implementation of the ongoing privatization project
indicates that: (i) there is now local ownership of the privatization
process and that therefore the likelihood of sustainability is relatively
high. With capacity built in the Privatization Unit, GoL has some
capacity required to initiate follow up on future work in privatization;
and (ii) timely availability of resources is critical. International /
regional experience on privatization and sector reform indicate the
following best practice features. First, Government commitment to and
leadership of the privatization and sector reform programs are essential
to success; the project should be supporting implementation of reforms
that have been developed with broad stakeholder consultation and where the
- 5 -



agreements are contained in sector policy statements and laws. Second,
leadership and strong privatization agency, with skilled staff and
empowered with appropriate authority to carry out the process, is needed.
Third, there is a need to ensure the availability of resources to address
the social cost of reform by funding severance packages for employees made
redundant as a result of privatization. Fourth, there is a need to ensure
a consistent approach across sector reform and privatization processes.
Lessons Learned from the Ongoing PPSD project: (a) ensure that an
appropriate institutional framework is in place and preparation of
transactions is contracted out as much as possible; (b) ensure that
effective instruments are in place for the local private sector to
participate and develop through the privatization process; (c) ensure
availability of resources to finance severance packages for employees made
redundant as a result of the privatization process; (d) increase local
community awareness of and support for the program through an effective
communication strategy before changes start taking place; (e) increase the
confidence of the investor community (both foreign and local) through the
establishment of improved and more transparent procedures, clearly
delineating the roles of political and technical decision makers in the
privatization process; (f) establish and communicate a clear vision for
the privatization process so that the program's impact on resolving
economic growth constraints is understood and maximized; (g) minimize
restrictions on investment qualifications in order to maximize competition
and if possible, encourage local participation in the program; and (h)
streamline and simplify procedures for relatively small disinvestment
transactions.Lessons Reflected: The proposed operation will be the first
one in Lesotho entirely dedicated to utilities sector reform. Key lessons
learned and reflected from similar Bank supported operations in other
countries include: (a) the need for full commitment to the process at the
highest levels of government; (b) the introduction of policy and
regulatory reforms to promote competition and protect consumer welfare
prior to the privatization transaction; (c) the establishment of a
coordination mechanism within Government to ensure consistency and
coherence, particularly when dealing with potential foreign investors; (d)
an efficient Government procurement mechanism to ensure that the work is
done in a timely manner in compliance with IDA procedures. The long term
success of the divestiture program will depend greatly on the
establishment of an appropriate regulatory framework in the respective
sectors.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  In compliance with the Government's environmental
assessment requirements and the World Bank Safeguard Policies for new
development projects, an environmental review for the project was
conducted to ensure that environmental conflicts and future social and
other costs incurred as a result of these conflicts are avoided. The
review team comprised LEC officials and consultants. The team assessed
the only aspect of the project that is of some environmental concern, the
rural and urban electricity hookups for residences and small businesses
and related activities, in areas where the majority of connections are
likely to take place. The assessment also covered central handling,
storage and maintenance of materials and equipment required to carry out
the hookups. Since specific individual properties to receive connections
- 6 -



have not been identified, the review was treated generically and a focus
given to the general and significant environmental problems faced by the
country, i.e. pollution, soil erosion, and impact on vulnerable species.
Based on an examination of the urban on-site social biophysical parameters
and consideration of the rural on-site parameters, decisions on: (i)
scoping resulted in the identification of 16 environmental components
sufficiently important to consider for protection within the context of
the project; and (ii) bounding limited the review to the immediate site of
the individual hookups (from main line to residence) except where water
quality downstream could be affected. The important environmental
components include: (i) biophysical components: soil quantity and
quality, habitat, fauna, urban vegetation, water regulation and quality;
and (ii) socioeconomic components: personal property, noise, aesthetics,
social patterns, cultural values, public safety, agricultural land,
settlement, and health.
11. Contact Point:
Mohua Mukherjee
Senior Private Sector and
Finance Specialist,
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 7428
Fax: 202 522 1198
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending August 25, 2000
-7 -



