Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3484 LSO
Project Agreement
(Utilities Sector Reform Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
LESOTHO ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
Dated April 3, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3484 LSO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 3, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and LESOTHO ELECTRICITY CORPORATION (LEC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty 
two million two hundred thousand  Special Drawing Rights (SDR 22,200,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
conditions that LEC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
LEC, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Page  2
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) LEC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Part A. of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility 
and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part A. of 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and LEC shall otherwise agree, LEC shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) LEC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Part A. of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, LEC shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the 
Association and LEC, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with LEC 
on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) LEC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Credit.
(b)
LEC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by LEC of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of LEC
Section 3.01. LEC shall: (a) carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, public utility and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and 
(b)
cooperate fully with the technical operator and extend to the technical 
operator all the facilities required to enable the technical operator to discharge 
adequately all of its duties and obligations as provided for under the terms and 
conditions of the contractual arrangements referred to under Section 3.06 of the 
Page  3
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 3.02. LEC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial ,public utility and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. LEC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  LEC shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to Part A. of the Project.
(b)
LEC shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the 
Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for 
such year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements and report 
of such 
audit, by said auditors,  of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, LEC shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) 
of said Section 4.01 in order to enable LEC, not later than December 31, 2002, or such 
later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management 
Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for Part 
A. of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered 
by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of 
funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) shows 
separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during 
the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following 
the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
(B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; 
and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
Page  4
expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
LEC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify LEC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For LEC:
LES0THO ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
53 Moshoeshoe Road
P.O. Box 423
Maseru 100
Lesotho
Page  5
Facsimile:
266 310093
266 310544
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of LEC, or by LEC 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Managing Director or such other person or persons as the Managing 
Director shall designate in writing, and LEC shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Fayez Omar
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
LESOTHO ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
By /s/ Lebohang Moleko
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
1.
LEC shall implement Part A. of the Project in accordance with the procedures, 
guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth in the PIP and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision 
of said PIP if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
LEC shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the performance indicators set forth 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project; and
(b)
furnish to the Association, for its review and comments:
(i)
not later than  October 31 of each year, commencing on October 31, 
2001, or 
such later date as the Association may agree, until the 
completion of the 
Project, the draft work programs (including 
Page  6
those related to training 
activities, workshops and study tours) 
and budgets for Part A  of the 
Project for the next Fiscal Year; 
and
(ii)
not later than  June 30 of each year, or such later date as the 
Association 
may agree, commencing on  June 30, 2002, until the 
completion of the 
Project, an annual report setting forth, inter 
alia, the progress achieved 
in the carrying out of  Part A of 
the Project.
3.
(a)
By November 30, of each year, commencing November 30, 2002, or such later 
date as the Association may agree, until the completion of the Project, LEC and the 
Association shall carry out an annual review of the Project (hereinafter referred to 
as the Annual Review); such Annual Review shall cover the progress achieved in the 
execution of the Project and, inter alia, review the information furnished in 
accordance with paragraph 2 (b) of this Schedule, and work programs to be carried out 
under the Project during the following FY.
(b)
Following such Annual Review, LEC shall carry out the said work programs 
in accordance with modalities and procedures approved by the Association and the 
Borrower and in accordance with the PIP, and shall not make any material change to the 
approved programs without the prior approval of the Association and of the Borrower.
4.
(a)
Not later than November 30, 2003, or such other date as LEC and the 
Association shall agree upon, LEC and the Association shall carry out a mid-term 
review (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review). LEC shall take all actions  
considered necessary to ensure the participation of AfDB and EU (collectively referred 
to hereinafter as the Donors), in such Midterm Review. Such Midterm Review shall cover 
the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project.
(b)
Not later than one month prior to the Midterm Review, LEC and the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Donors including the Association, for their review and 
comments, a report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
implementation of the Project.
(c)
Following such Midterm Review, LEC shall act promptly and diligently in 
order to take any corrective action deemed necessary by the Association to remedy any 
shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project and the Program, as the case 
may be, or to implement such other measures as may have been agreed upon among the 
Borrower and LEC and the Association in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
5.
LEC shall: (a) design the LEC reform program and the LEC staff redeployment plan 
referred to under Part A.1 and A.2 of the Project not later than May 31, 2001; and (b) 
promptly thereafter take all measures required on its part, to implement the said 
programs.
