Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3484 LSO
Development Credit Agreement
(Utilities Sector Reform Project)
between
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 3, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3484 LSO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 3, 2001, between KINGDOM OF LESOTHO (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter, dated October 27, 2001 (the Sector 
Policy Letter or SPL) from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives 
and policies designed to restructure the Borrower’s utilities sector (the Program) and 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program;
(C)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by LESOTHO ELECTRICITY 
CORPORATION (LEC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make certain portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for in 
Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) available to LEC, as further stipulated 
under the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement; 
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from the African Development Bank (AfDB) 
a loan in an amount approximately equivalent to $8,700,000 (the AfDB Loan) to assist 
Page  2
in financing the Project on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and AfDB (the AfDB Loan Agreement); 
(E)
the Borrower intends to receive from the European Union (EU) a grant in 
an amount approximately equivalent to $200,000 (the EU Grant), to assist in financing 
the Project on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and EU (the EU Grant Agreement); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and LEC 
(the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association determines 
meets 
the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the 
Board of Governors 
of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries”; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall 
be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a 
Participating Country or for goods produced 
in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by 
a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the fiscal year of the Borrower which starts 
from April 1 of each calendar year through March 31 of the calendar year next 
following;
(b)
“Interim Period” means the period of time running from February 1, 2001  
through December 31, 2002, during which LEC’s (as hereinafter defined) overall 
operations are carried out and managed in accordance with the provisions of the 
contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(c)
“LEA” means the Lesotho Electricity Authority referred to in Section 3.05 
of this Agreement;
(d)
“LEC” means the Lesotho Electricity Corporation, a public enterprise 
established and operating pursuant to the Electricity Act No. 7 of 1969 of the 
Borrower as amended to date;
(e)
“LTA” means the Lesotho Telecommunications Authority, a regulatory agency 
established and operating pursuant to the Telecommunications Authority Act No. 5 of  
Page  3
2000 of the Borrower;
(f)
“MF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;
(g)
“MNR” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Natural Resources;
(h)
“MOC” means the Borrower ‘s Ministry of Communications;
(i)
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan adopted by the Borrower and 
containing, inter alia, guidelines, timetables, procedures and other arrangements for 
the purpose of implementing the Project; such term includes any schedules and 
amendments to the PIP as the same may be amended from time to time, in consultation 
with and with the consent of the Association;
(j)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and LEC 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(k)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(l)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advances 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a first letter agreement dated 
on August 20, 1998 signed by the Association and countersigned by the Borrower on 
August 25, 1998; and a second letter agreement, dated October 12, 2000 signed by the 
Association and countersigned by the Borrower on October 19, 2000; and a third letter 
agreement dated February 8, 2001 signed by the Association and countersigned by the 
Borrower on March 9, 2001;
(m)
“PU” means the Privatization Unit established by the Borrower pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to Development Credit Agreement Number 
2612  LSO dated February 1, 1995 and in accordance with the provisions of the 
Privatization Act No. 9 of 1995;
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(o)
“TCL” means the Tele-Communications Lesotho company, a commercial entity 
established and operating pursuant to the commercial laws of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-two million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR  22,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
Page  4
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 2011, and ending November 1, 2040. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2020 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
Page  5
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Part B, Part C, Part D and Part E of the Project 
through 
the PU with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, public 
utility and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other 
resources required for the Project; and
(ii)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause 
LEC to carry out Part A 
of the Project and to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the 
obligations of LEC therein set forth, shall take 
and cause to 
be taken all action including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable LEC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and, except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation and sustainability of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A. of the 
Project shall be carried out by LEC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, no later than June 30, 2003, establish and 
thereafter maintain LEA with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the 
Association and  with staff in adequate numbers, whose qualifications and experience 
shall at all time be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. Without any prejudice to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) (ii) 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall maintain contractual arrangements acceptable to 
the Association, with a technical operator whose qualifications and experience shall 
Page  6
be satisfactory to the Association.  The said contractual arrangements shall provide, 
inter alia, that full managerial autonomy for the conduct of LEC’s day-to-day 
operations shall be vested with qualified experts and staff working directly under the 
responsibility and control of the technical operator.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall thereafter maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to Part B, Part C, Part D and Part E of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and 
accounts for the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
December 31, 2002, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
Page  7
quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for 
the Project for the six-month period 
following the period 
covered by said report; and (B) shows separately 
expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and 
(B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; 
and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
(b)
LEC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that LEC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(d)
The contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.06 of this 
Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without 
any prior approval by the Association.
(e)
The Electricity Act No. 7 of 1969 of the Borrower shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of LEC to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
AfDB loan 
or the EU grant made to the Borrower for the 
financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in whole 
or in part, pursuant to 
the terms of the AfDB Loan Agreement or the 
EU Grant 
Agreement; or
(B)
the AfDB loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
Page  8
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association 
that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the AfDB Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Development Credit 
Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(b)
the Borrower has adopted the PIP in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the  Project Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by LEC, and is legally binding upon  LEC in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.05 and 3.06 of 
this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Section 5.02 
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development 
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date 20 years after the date of this 
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  9
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 395
Maseru 100
Lesotho
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINMIN
4330 LO
266 31 01 57
266 31 06 22
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
By /s/ Lebohang Moleko
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Fayez Omar
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works 
    80,000
100% of foreign
Page  10
expenditures and
95% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods
 5,500,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
95% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ services
11,100,000
100%
(4)
Operating costs
   600,000
90%
(5)
Refinancing of
 2,600,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) of
Advance
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
 2,320,000
TOTAL
22,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Operating costs” means expenditures incurred on account of 
Project implementation, management and monitoring including office consumables (such 
as communication expenses, tickets and subsistence costs for travel related to the 
Project, salaries for contractual staff, office rental, office supplies and 
maintenance, and fuel and maintenance for vehicles and equipment, but excluding 
salaries of the Borrower’s civil servants.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures made for: (a) civil works and 
goods not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (b) consulting firms under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (c) individual consultants’ services under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to contribute to the Borrower’s efforts to 
improve the provision of efficient public utility services, i.e. electricity and 
telecommunications within the Borrower’s territory so as to enhance the 
competitiveness of the Borrower’s economy and its potential to attract further private 
sector investments into its territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Electricity Sector Reform
1.
Design and implementation of a reform program aimed at: (a) stemming LEC’s 
financial decline; (b) revamping LEC’s technical capacity with a view to connecting up 
to 8,000 additional customers to the electricity grid; and (c) preparing LEC for its 
Page  11
transformation into a private sector and shareholding company.
2.
Design and implementation of a staff redeployment plan aimed at: (a) assessing 
the right skill mix which is required to turn LEC into an efficient provider of 
electricity services within the Borrower’s territory; (b) making a complete inventory 
of existing skills; (c) identifying required skills gaps; and (d) implementing all 
necessary measures required to endow LEC with commensurate skills required to improve 
its efficiency including through training, streamlining and appropriate redeployment 
of existing staff. 
3.
Provision of technical advisory services to improve the management of LEC’s 
operations during the Interim Period.
Part B:
Improvement of Electricity and Telecommunications Legal and Regulatory 
Frameworks 
and Institutional Capacity Building
1.
Streamlining and upgrading of the legal and regulatory frameworks governing the 
provision of electricity and telecommunication services within the Borrower’s 
territory so as to improve the competitiveness and efficiency of the Borrower’s 
electricity and telecommunications sectors.
2.
(a)
Establishment of LEA; and (b) strengthening of the operational capacity 
of LEA and LTA through: (i) the provision of technical advisory services; (ii) 
upgrading training and on-the-job training for relevant staff in areas relating to the 
execution of the Project; and (iii) acquisition of office equipment and supplies and 
other appropriate logistical support.
3.
Strengthening of MNR, MOC and MF’s institutional capacity through the provision 
of appropriate technical advisory services and training.
4.
Provision of technical advisory services required to transform LEC into a 
private sector shareholding company.
Part C:
Expansion of Access to Electricity Supply
1.
Carrying out of: (a) a comprehensive study to assess existing options for 
increasing the production of hydroelectric power within the Borrower’s territory; and 
(b) a study aimed at improving the viability of the Muela hydroelectric plant.
2.
Design and implementation of a pilot program aimed at expanding the supply of 
electricity services to selected under-served areas through: (a) the installation of 
about 3,000 grid connections; and (b) the installation of about 1,000 connections to 
stand-alone power generator schemes.
3.
Design and testing of a scheme aimed at promoting income-generating activities 
within the under-served areas referred to in paragraph 2 above through the provision 
of support services to eligible entrepreneurs.
Part D:
Facilitation of Domestic Participation in the Capital Structure of Public 
Enterprises to be Privatized
1.
Design of a financial mechanism aimed at setting aside a portion of the capital 
stock of public enterprises to be privatized with a view to foster access to 
shareholding  by potential domestic investors in the privatized enterprises.
2.
Carrying out of the Borrower’s ongoing privatization program through the 
provision of appropriate technical advisory services.
Part E:
Logistical Support for the PU
1.
Strengthening the performance of the PU through the provision of technical 
advisory services and appropriate logistics means.
2.
Carrying out of selected studies aimed at expanding the development of private 
sector investments in the Borrower’s economy. 
Page  12
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, and works estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $75,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
Page  13
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, or goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and 
(ii) the first two contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures 
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The shortlist of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for financial audit estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Technical advisory services under Part B of the Project estimated to cost less 
Page  14
than $50,000 equivalent per contract, and for training courses under Part B of the 
Project estimated to cost more than $20,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
services estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and the first two 
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000 the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall implement Part B, Part C, Part D and Part E of the Project in 
accordance with the procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth in the 
PIP and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend 
or waive any provision of said PIP if, in the opinion of the Association, such 
amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the performance indicators set forth 
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project; and
(b)
furnish to the Association, for its review and comments:
(i)
not later than  October 31 of each year, commencing on  October 
31, 2001, 
or such later date as the Association may agree, 
until the completion of 
the Project, the draft work programs 
(including those related to training 
activities, workshops and 
study tours) and budgets for the Project for the 
next Fiscal 
Page  15
Year; and
(ii)
not later than  June 30 of each year, or such later date as the 
Association 
may agree, commencing on  June 30, 2002, until the 
completion of the 
Project, an annual report setting forth, inter 
alia, the progress achieved 
in the carrying out of the 
Project.
3.
(a)
By November 30, of each year, commencing November 30, 2002, or such later 
date as the Association may agree, until the completion of the Project, the Borrower 
and LEC and the Association shall carry out an annual review of the Project 
(hereinafter called the Annual Review); such Annual Review shall cover the progress 
achieved in the execution of the Project and, inter alia, review the information 
furnished in accordance with paragraph 2 (b) of this Schedule, and work programs to be 
carried out under the Project during the following FY.
(b)
Following such Annual Review the Borrower shall carry out and cause LEC 
to carry out said work programs in accordance with modalities and procedures approved 
by the Association and the Borrower and in accordance with the PIP, and shall not make 
any material change to the approved programs without the prior approval of the 
Association.
4.
(a)
Not later than November 30, 2003, or such other date as the Borrower and 
the Association shall agree upon, the Borrower and LEC and the Association shall carry 
out a midterm review (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review). The Borrower 
shall take all actions it considers necessary to ensure the participation of AfDB and 
EU (collectively referred to hereinafter as the Donors), in such Midterm Review. Such 
Midterm Review shall cover the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project.
(b)
Not later than one month prior to the Midterm Review, the Borrower and 
LEC shall furnish to the Donors including the Association, for their review and 
comments, a report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
implementation of the Project.
(c)
Following such Midterm Review, the Borrower and LEC shall act promptly 
and diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary by the 
Association to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project and 
the Program, as the case may be, or to implement such other measures as may have been 
agreed upon among the Borrower and LEC and the Association in furtherance of the 
objectives of the Project.
5.
The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project, maintain the PU, with 
functions and membership satisfactory to the Association.
6.
The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the studies referred to under Part E.2 of the 
Project; (b) not later than  June 30, 2003, submit the results and recommendations of 
the said studies to the Association for its review and comments; (c) promptly take 
into account the comments and recommendations made by the Association; and (d) 
thereafter, implement the recommendations of the said studies as agreed and in 
accordance with the timetable agreed upon with the Association.
7.
The Borrower shall: (a) design the financial mechanism referred to under Part 
D.1 of the Project not later than  March 31, 2002; and (b) promptly thereafter take 
all measures required on its part, to implement the said financial mechanism.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
Page  16
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
Page  17
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
The Borrower shall from time to time, review jointly with the Association and 
LEC, the progress achieved in the execution of the Project inter alia through the 
following performance indicators:
1.
The majority of LEC capital stock is held by a private sector investor by not 
later than December 31, 2002.
2.
By December 31, 2002 no further subsidies are made by the Borrower with a view 
to sustaining LEC current operations.
3.
The financial mechanism referred to under Part D 1 of the Project has been 
established and by June 30, 2003 at least 200 local investors have invested under the 
said mechanism.
4.
(a)
By October 31, 2001 at least 40% of LEC employees earmarked for 
retrenchment have been actually retrenched; (b) by March 31, 2002 at least an 
additional 30% of the said employees have been retrenched; and (c) by July 31, 2002, 
the remaining 30% of the said employees have been retrenched.
5.
By December 31, 2004, the efficiency ratio in TCL stands at one employee per 100 
telephonic lines.
6.
(a)
By July 31, 2001, LEC shall have increased its rate of revenue collection 
to 85% of outstanding bills; and (b) by December 31, 2001, the said rate of revenue 
collection shall have been increased and thereafter maintained at 95% of outstanding 
Page  18
bills.
7.
(a)
By December 31, 2002, TCL shall have connected 25,000 users to the 
telephonic network; and (b) by December 31, 2004, 15,000 additional users shall have 
been connected to the said network.
8.
(a)
By July 31, 2001, LEC shall have connected 2,000 users to the electricity 
grid; (b) by January 31, 2002, 3,000 additional users shall have been connected to the 
said grid; and (c) by July 31, 2002, 3,000 additional users shall have been also 
connected to the electricity grid.
