Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19552
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND CREDIT
(Loan No. 41530-MK and Credit No. 29490-MK)
August 18, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit (ECSPE)
Europe and Central Asia
The World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 30, 1999)
Currency Unit   =    Denar
1 MKD    =    US$0.017
US$1    =    MKD58.445
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AN1D MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASR   -  Agency for Strategic Reserves
CAS  -  Country Assistance Strategy
EBRD   -  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ESW   -  Economic Sector Work
EU   -  European Union
FESAC   -  Financial Enterprise Sectoral Adjustment Credit
GDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
GOM   -  Government of Macedonia
IBRD - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR   -  Inplementation Completion Report
IDA   -  International Development Association
IMF  -  Internationa:l Monetary Fund
MOA   -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
NTB   -  Non-Tariff Barrier
PHARE  -  Poland Hungary Assistance for Economic Reconstruction
PHRD   -  Policy and Human Resources Development
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
QR   -  Quantitative Restriction
SAL  -  Structural Adjustment Loan
SOE  -  State Owned Enterprise
SRP  -  Special Restructuring Program
TA   -  Technical Assistance
UK   -  United Kingdom
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development
WTO   -  World Trade Organization
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Ajay C.hhibber, ECCO6
Team Leader: Pascale Kervyn de Lettenhove, ECSPE
Sector Manager: Pradeep Mitra, ECSPE



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND CREDIT
(LOAN No. 41530-MK AND CREDIT No. 29490-MK)
Contents
Preface ..........................................                               i
Evaluation Summary .......................................... ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..........................................  1
A. Introduction and Project Objectives                 .I
B. Achievement of Objectives                        .3
C. Major Factors Affecting The Project                 .6
D). Sustainability.7
E. Bank Performance                             .8
F. Borrower Performance                           .9
G. Assessment Of Outcome                           .9
H. Future Operations                            .9
1. Key Lessons Leamed                            .9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ........................                           13
Table 1:       Summary of Assessments
Table 2:       Related Bank Loans and Credits
Table 3:       Project Timetable
Table 4:       Cumulative Loan Disbursements
Table 5:       Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:       Studies Included in Project
Table 7:       Project Costing and Financing
Table 8:       Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:       Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 10:      Bank Resources-Staff Inputs
Table 11:      Bank Resources--Missions
ANNEXES .23
1. Mission's Aide-Memoire
2. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Structural Adjustment
Loan and Credit for the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, for which Loan No.
41530 in the amount of DM 44.4 million (US$30 million equivalent) and Credit No.
29490 amount of SDR 20.6 million equivalent (US$30 million equivalent) were approved
by the Board on May 6, 1997, and made effective June 25, 1997. The loan and credit were
closed on December 31, 1998, compared with the original closing date of June 30, 1998.
The first tranche of US$35.7 million equivalent' was released by July 2, 1997. The
second tranche of US$18.9 million equivalent2 was released by November 13, 1998-the
final disbursement. (Differences from the original amounts are due to exchange rate
fluctuations). Grant co-financing in the amount of US$7.48 million equivalent was
provided by the Government of the Netherlands, and US$0.81 million equivalent by the
Government of Japan.
The ICR was commissioned by Ms. Pascale Kervyn de Lettenhove
(Macroeconomist, ECSPE), and was prepared by Mr. Elliott Hurwitz (Consultant). The
ICR was reviewed by Pervaiz Rashid, Ajay Chibber, and Pradeep Mitra. Preparation of
the ICR was based on materials in the project file including the President's Report, Letter
of Development Policy, supervisory and back-to-office reports, and from data collected
during the final supervision/completion mission, June 20-26, 1999. The Borrower
participated in the project completion process by providing information for the ICR, by
discussing the preliminary judgments and results, and by providing its own evaluation,
which is included as Annex 2.
i On June 25, 1998: the equivalent of US$ 12.7 was disbursed under the IBRD loan. On July 2, 1998, the
equivalent of US$ 23 million was disbursed under the IDA credit.
2 On November 10, 1998, the equivalent of US$ 5.7 million was disbursed under the IDA credit. On
November 13, 1998, the equivalent of US$ 13.2 million was disbursed under the IBRD loan.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND CREDIT
(LOAN NO. 41530-MK AND CREDIT NO. 29490-MK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction and Project Objectives
1.    Starting in 1994 the Government of Macedonia (GOM) carried out a bold
program of first-generation structural reforms involving price liberalization, fiscal
restructuring, bank rehabilitation and privatization, divestiture of state-owned enterprises
(SOEs), and adjustment of the social safety net. While these stabilization and reform
measures reduced inflation and began to stabilize production, gross domestic product
(GDP) growth was weak and unemployment high. To counter "reform fatigue," the GOM
felt that a quick resumption of growth was imperative, and developed a program to reduce
remaining distortions.
2.    The GOM correctly identified trade and agriculture as having major potential to
spearhead growth, but realized that growth in these sectors was impeded by serious
structural, policy and institutional deficiencies. Consequently, the Structural Adjustment
Loan (SAL) was designed to support further trade and agricultural policy reforms and
privatize agricultural SOEs-thereby securing the benefits achieved since 1994. Program
targets were trade policy distortions, special agricultural import levies, and widespread
exemptions from import taxes. In agriculture, there were explicit budget subsidies,
guaranteed fixed prices for key commodities, and the operation of the Agency for
Strategic Reserves (ASR). In the enterprise sector, the presence of many socially-owned
kombinats inhibited private investment and growth, while there was also an inadequate
legal framework for business.
3.    Project objectives were to: further liberalize trade policy by changing customs
policy and limiting exemptions; rationalizing import taxes; eliminating import and export
quotas; strengthening the export regime; and rationalizing trade institutions. Further
objectives were to reform agricultural policy by: reducing output price intervention;
ending input subsidies; reforming the strategic reserve scheme; re-orienting the Ministry
of Agriculture (MOA) away from intervention and toward support of the private sector.
Also, to privatize SOEs and improve the private business environment by: privatizing at
least 70 percent of agricultural enterprises eligible for privatization, including at least 20
medium or large kombinats; strengthening the legal framework for private sector
development; completing the original privatization agency mandate regarding mainstream
privatization; completing enterprise privatization in the Special Restructuring Program.
4.    The objectives were appropriate because they addressed specific constraints that
limited income growth and inhibited private investment. They were developed in close



iii
collaboration with the GOM and other linanciers, and were consistent with the 19j95
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Objectives were clear, realistic, and linked to
monitorable performance indicators. Prior to the SAL, the Bank Group had approved
seven projects in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and the GOM 'I,ad
received International Monetary Fund (IMF) support for its stabilization efforts. T'he
Netherlands also supported policy reforms with quick-disbursing grants tied to the SAL
(and earlier to the Financial Enterprise Sectoral Adjustment Credit or FESAC).
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Macroeconomic  Performance  improved  during  SAL   implementation.
Government reforms, including those undertaken under the SAL, have contributed to
improve growth. Growth improved, with real GDP up 2.9 percent in 1998, compared with
1995-97 growth of -1.2, 0.8, and 1.5 percent. Inflation declined, with consumer pri:,e13
rising only 0.6 percent in 1998, versus 1996-97 rates of 2.5 percent and 1.5 percent. The
general government budget deficit rose slightly to 1.7 percent of GDP in 1998. Real
wages rose by 3.1 percent in 1996, 0.4 percent in 1997, and 3.1 percent in 1998. But 1he
current account deficit remained large, 8.2 percent of GDP in 1998 vs. 8 percent in 1997.
6.    Achievement of objectives, while uneven, is overall judged as substantial. 'Ihe
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia implemented the letter, if not the spirit, of
nearly all SAL-supported reforms, with good results in many areas. In trade po]lCV
progress was substantial: Quantitative restrictions were eliminated: a new Customs ta:iff
was implemented: tariffs and trade taxes wvere substantially reduced, and their struct.re
rationalized; discretionary exemptions were eliminated; a revised customs law was pas; ed
by Parliament, but the new government delayed its effectiveness one year until Januarv 1,
2000. Substantial progress was also made in rationalizing and strengthening tra!de
institutions, with a trade policy unit established to monitor the trade regime and dir. :c-
Macedonia's accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO), and a Custoln5;
valuation unit established, permitting reductions in fraud and a 20 percent reven ue
increase. Further, export assistance payments were limited, and an EU-compatible du y-
drawback system was instituted.
7.    In agricultural policy, achievements were partial: output price interventions w rce
substantially cut; support for all products except tobacco and wheat were abolished, vw th
prices for these two products capped at 70 percent of world market level. All inj! u.
subsidies and rebates were terminated, and operations of the Agency for Strategric
Reserves (ASR) were severely limited-its budget cut by 82 percent from 1995 to 19K'.7
While large MOA expenditures on market interventions were reduced, there was lic.lc
MOA activity to support private farmers.
8.    Satisfactory progress was made in reforming SOEs and improving  . Ic
environment for private business. In many cases, it was considered that reforms met ,-he
letter of the conditions but not their spirit: Of 481 agricultural units eligible or
privatization, 81 percent were privatized, compared to a SAL-required 70 perceit.



iv
Another SAL objective was to privatize or liquidate 20 medium or large agro-kombinats
(with at least three having 1,000 or more employees). Two were privatized before Board
presentation, leaving 14 medium-sized kombinats to be privatized for second tranche
release. Privatization of five of these, and initiation of bankruptcy against another three
substantially fulfilled the second tranche condition. Also, kombinats were required to
privatize core businesses and divest non-core businesses prior to privatization so viable
units could better attract investment. This was successfully implemented--though much
later than envisioned. In some cases, kombinats took measures which violated the spirit
of the SAL, but not its letter. Finally, the Privatization Agency developed an acceptable
plan to complete remaining agricultural privatizations, but the extent of plan
implementation is not clear. Continued progress was made in completing the mainstream
privatization program (initiated under the FESAC project), with 97 percent of enterprises
identified under that program privatized (compared to 66 percent at the start of the SAL).
9.    Of 165 units derived from Special Restructuring Program (SRP) enterprises, 132
were privatized, eight are bankrupt, 22 are being privatized, and three remain state-
owned. Those privatized include nine of the GOM's ten largest loss-makers. Also,
kombinats were required to lease to private farmers 15 percent of their land. While this
has been achieved, in many cases existing farmers leased land from the same managers
with no change in the organizational system. In some cases, under the 1998 Land
Restitution Law, pre-1945 owners made claims on this land that the state needs to
resolve-a potentially large demand on state resources. A new rural land use law was
enacted, introducing a basis for secure property and tenancy rights, a fundamental
advance, but a workable title registry is not yet in place. New laws were passed: anti-
monopoly, bankruptcy, collateral, denationalization, and employment law amendments.
The implementation completion report (ICR) mission found that these laws were
gradually being implemented and their benefits had yet to be achieved. It should be noted
that in many cases privatization was achieved by management buyout-with slight
worker participation-with little or no assistance to firns to support them in the new
circumstances.
10.   Major Factors Affecting the Project-The SAL took ten months to prepare, a
delay caused by GOM perception that alternate funding sources might be available.
Although no Technical Assistance (TA) was funded directly by the SAL, the SAL team
arranged for TA from other sources that was critical to project success. This included TA
for: the Privatization Agency; reviewing drafts of the rural land use law European Union-
Poland Hungary Assistance for Economic Reconstruction (EU-PHARE); restructuring
assistance to firms being privatized (from another Bank project); trade policy; and
Customs (provided by the IMF). Elections were held in October 1998, with a second
round a month later. Elections made it difficult for the GOM to move on politically
sensitive measures, especially kombinat privatization. These difficulties caused the
closing date to be delayed six months from the original closing date of June 30, 1998.
11.   Sustainability, uneven overall, is judged as uncertain. While the new government
backs reforms, in many cases substantial actions are needed to complete reforms.
Particularly in privatization, while key first steps have been taken, impact on enterprise



v
performance and productivity remains to be seen. However, reforms have endured
elections and change of top personnel. In trade and customs reforms, officials strongly
believe that reforms are key toward integrating the country into Europe; the fonner
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has applied to join WTO, and the tariff rates and
practices adopted are binding for accession. GOM has a cooperation agreement with the
EU, and is attempting to align policies with EU standards. Regarding actions to imprive
the business environment, the legal framework has improved substantially, but in n-.ost
cases implementing regulations are still needed. Regarding agricultural price refcrnm,
people could see that when controls were removed, bread prices did not rise and
consumers benefited. Citizens and officials also realize that budget revenues are not
sufficient to sustain the old policies.
12.   Bank Performance-Bank perfonnance was satisfactory: project objectives were
clear and realistic, project design was appropriate, and the SAL was formulated in a
highly-participative process with the Borrower and other financiers. However, as
explained below, the project should probably have incorporated: a mechanism by which
the Borrower could have monitored actual progress in privatization; assistance to
strengthen reforms; and a procedure for a continuing dialogue. Many present and previ us
GC)M  officials praised  Bank  performance, finding it "excellent" and  "hig;hly
professional." The Bank team also provided key information (technical assistance, modlel
statutes). Several GOM  officials praised the ambitious SAL goals as providin~: a
necessary push; the Bank's role was seen as key to accelerating reform. The Borrower
also noted the extremely helpful support and follow-through from the Resident Mission.
13.   Borrower Performance-Borrower performance was satisfactory. For the n 3st
part, the letter-if not the spirit-of reform goals was met and the GOM was cooperat yve
and. helpful. But in some cases where opposition was strong, movement was difficult and
slow. For example, restructuring and privatizing the kombinats took a great deal of timei
and effort. This one sub-component caused a six-month delay in project completin.
Finally, the MOA did little to provide institutional support to private farmers.
14.   Assessment Of Outcome-Project outcome is assessed as satisfactory. 'he
project met nearly all its objectives, and (GOM achievement and commitment to refo:lm
was, substantial. Reform progress in trade policy was excellent, in agricultural policy
substantial, and in privatization and private sector development satisfactory. Nearly alL
measures required of the GOM were carried out, but progress in reaching some goals v,i as
slow. The project has already had significant development impact, and sustainabili zy,
while overall uncertain, is likely across most key areas of reform.
15.   Future Operations-Inadequate attention was paid toward future operations
during the last part of the SAL, and there was little dialogue in this area-a proji-ct
weakness. A factor contributing to this was the change in government-with t' e
widespread replacement of policy officials and staff. This disrupted the continuity of l le
very successful reform dialogue that had taken place during the previous three years.



vi
Key Lessons Learned
16.   Challenging Reform Targets Can Be An Important Stimulus To Action--In
the SAL, targets were established which challenged the formner Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia to act boldly. The presence of the matrix and timetable undoubtedly
stimulated the pace of reform. The lesson here is that setting ambitious targets, even if
they might have had a greater likelihood of agreement and attainment, would probably
have achieved less in the end.
17.   The Project Should Have Included A Follow-Up/Monitoring Mechanism-
There was a strong need to include a post-completion follow-up and monitoring
mechanism/organization by which the GOM, with Bank assistance, could have: verified
that reforms introduced were continuing to be implemented; provided assistance to
complete and strengthen reforrns, e.g., post-privatization enterprise assistance; provided a
procedure by which to sustain a dialogue on continuing and deepening reforms.
18.   The Government Needs To Take Action To Ensure That Various Agencies
Move With Equal Speed To Implement Reforms Agreed. In this case the Kombinats
did not meet the Spirit Of The SAL-As noted earlier, the GOM has met the letter of the
requirement for kombinats to divest non-core elements and sell or lease 15 percent of
their land to private farmers, but actions have fallen well short of fulfilling the spirit of
this requirement. The GOM should make it a high priority to fulfill the spirit of this
requirement. The break-up of the Kombinats and particularly divestiture of non-core
operations should have been firmly and clearly defined in a Letter of Development Policy
or in exchange of letters between the Bank and the authorities.
19.   Sector Strategy And Reforms Should Be Formulated As Part Of A Long-
term Vision To Guide The Government And To Provide The Basis For
Sustainability. A sector strategy would identify additional constraints, beyond those
addressed in the SAL, which limit production increases and the marketable surplus.
20.   Coordination Among Donors Is Crucial To Avoid Gaps and Overlaps, and
Ensure That Contributions Are focused On Achieving The Objectives. Technical
assistance needs to be appropriately programmed in the implementation process.
Although no TA was funded under the SAL, the SAL team coordinated with other donors
and arranged for TA that was critical to project success.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND CREDIT
(LOAN NO. 41530-MK AND CREDIT NO. 29490-MK)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction and Project Objectives
Introduction
1.    In common with other transition economies, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia experienced major dislocations in production, employment, and social welfare
since its independence in 1991. The country's economic progress was further hampered
by financial, trade, and transit embargoes-since largely ended-caused by regional
political and military conflicts.
2.    Despite this challenging environment, starting in 1994 the Government of
Macedonia (GOM) canried out a bold program of first-generation structural reforms
involving widespread price liberalization, fiscal restructuring, bank rehabilitation and
privatization, divestiture of state-owned enterprises (SOEs), and adjustment of the social
safety net. While these economic stabilization and reform measures sharply reduced
inflation and began to stabilize production, gross domestic product (GDP) growth was
weak and unemployment was high. To counter "reform fatigue," the GOM felt that a
quick resumption of growth was imperative, and developed a program to reduce
remaining distortions.
Project Objectives and Evaluation of Objectives
3.    Given the country's small domestic market as well as its location and resource
endowment, the Government correctly identified trade and agriculture as having major
potential to spearhead growth. But the GOM also realized that growth in these sectors
was impeded by serious structural, policy and institutional deficiencies, which created
significant economic distortions that seriously constrained the efficiency of the country's
private sector and undermined economic recovery.3
4.    Consequently, the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) was designed to stimulate
reforms in these sectors by supporting implementation of further trade and agricultural
policy reforms and by privatizing socially-owned agricultural enterprises-thereby
securing the benefits of the impressive stabilization and structural changes achieved since
Constraints in the agricultural sector were described in the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID) analytical work on agricultural pricing policy and the distortions they
caused, work that was carried forward by the Bank.



- 2 -
1994. The targets of the reform program were trade policy distortions such as selective
bans and restrictions on import and export volumes, special import levies on some
agricultural goods, and widespread exemptions from import taxes. These distortions
overwhelmed the nominally straightforward basic tariff structure. In agriculture, thl- re
were explicit budget subsidies, guaranteed fixed prices for key commodities, and ;he
operation of the Agency for Strategic Reserves (ASR). And in the enterprise sector, .he
presence of many socially-owned agro-kombinats inhibited private investment and
growth, while there was also an inadequate legal framework for business. Specific projizct
objectives were to:
*  Further liberalize trade policy
> Change customs policy and limit exemptions
> Rationalize import taxes
> Eliminate import and export quotas
> Strengthen the export regime
> Rationalize trade institutions
*  Reform agricultural policy
> Reduce intervention in output prices
> End input subsidies
P  Reform the Strategic Reserve scheme
> Re-orient the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) away from intervention a .1d
toward institutional support of the private sector
e  Privatize socially-owned enterprises and improve environment for priv;.te
business
>  Extend privatization to agriculture by privatizing at least 70 percent of
agricultural enterprises eligible for privatization, including at least 20
medium or large agro-kombinats
>  Strengthen legal framework for private sector development
>  Complete the original mandate of the Privatization Agency regarding
mainstream privatization, and complete privatization of enterprises uncL[r
the Special Restructuring Program4 (SRP)
5.    The project objectives were appropriate because they addressed the speci:lic
structural, institutional, and policy constraints which limited income growth and inhibit.d
private investment. They were developed in close collaboration with the Governmert,
which was also involved in a policy dialogue with the Fund, the European Union (El;),
and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). They supporti. d
the Government reform program, which was driven by the recognition that, while mar y
reforms had been implemented thus far, significant economic distortions remained,
especially in trade and agriculture. The project objectives were also consistent with tKle
1995 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which set out a strategy to (1) supp(ort
4    Greater detail on this objective is presented in the next section.



stabilization and structural reform with analytical work and adjustment lending; (2) assist
productive sector development and strengthen the social safety net through investment
lending and technical assistance; (3) continue donor coordination through the
Consultative Group.
6.    The project objectives were clear, realistic, and were linked to monitorable
performance indicators (Table 5 in the Statistical Tables).
7.    The SAL was very closely coordinated with other Bank and IMF lending. Prior to
the SAL, the Bank Group had approved two adjustment operations and five investment
projects in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (Table 2 in the Statistical
Tables). And the Government had supported its stabilization efforts with several
purchases from the IMF's Systemic Transformation Facility in 1994 and 1995, and had
successfully completed a Stand-by program in 1996. The Government of the Netherlands
also supported policy reforms with quick-disbursing grants tied to the SAL (and earlier to
the FESAC).
B.  Achievement of Objectives
Appropriate Macroeconomic Framework for Stabilization
8.    Macroeconomic performance5 improved over the period during which the SAL
was implemented. The improvement in macroeconomic conditions is ascribed to the
reformn efforts the Government undertook, notably under the SAL. However, medium-
term effects could be compromised by the recent Kosovo conflict.
9.    Growth improved, with real GDP up 2.9 percent in 1998, compared with 1995-97
growth rates of -1.2, 0.8, and 1.5 percent, respectively.
*  Inflation declined, with consumer prices rising only 0.6 percent in 1998,
compared with 2.5 percent and 1.5 percent in 1996 and 1997, respectively.
* The general government budget deficit, after falling from 13 percent of GDP in
1993 to less than 1 percent in 1996 and 1997, rose slightly to 1.7 percent of GDP
in 1998.
*  Real wages rose by 3.1 percent in 1996, 0.4 percent in 1997, and 3.1 percent in
1998.
*  However, the current account remained large, rising to 8.2 percent of GDP in
1998 from 8 percent in 1997, and the average real exchange rate in 1998 was
about 15 percent lower that in 1997.
5    All data in this section are based on Bank statistics obtained from the Resident Mission.



Achievement of Objectives: Overview
10.    Achievement of objectives, while uneven, is overall judged as substantial. Thle
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia implemented the letter, if not the spirit, of
nearly all SAL-supported reforms, with good results in many areas. In trade polic:y
progress was substantial:
e  Quantitative restrictions were eliminated.6
* A new Customs tariff was implemented: tariffs and trade taxes were
substantially reduced,7 and their structure rationalized.
)  Discretionary exemptions under the old law were eliminated.
* A revised customs law was passed by Parliament. However, the new
government delayed the law's effectiveness one year until January 1, 2000.
* Substantial progress was made in rationalizing and strengthening trade
institutions.
> A trade policy unit was established to regularly monitor the country's trade
regime and act as the focal point for Macedonia's WTO accession.
> A valuation unit was established at Customs headquarters, which permittt. d
reductions in fraud and a 20 percent increase in revenue.
*  Export assistance payments were limited to the 1997 budget allocation, and ln
EU-compatible duty-drawback system was instituted.
In the area of agricultural policy reform, achievements were largely carried out:8
* Interventions in output prices were substantially reduced.
> Supports for sugarbeet, sunflower, other oilseeds, milk and all other producls
were eliminated.
> Only tobacco and wheat prices continued to be supported, with the suppc:-t
capped at 70 percent of the world rnarket price.
* Input subsidies were terminated.
>  Fertilizer subsidies and seed rebates were eliminated.
6     In the case of "free trade agreements" which the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia had
established earlier with Slovenia, Croatia, and Yugoslavia, liberal tariff-quotas were applied. Th:s
meant that agreed annual volumes of imports on specified products would be subject to regul: r
tariffs, with imports in excess of these volumes subject to zero tariff.
7     On an unadjusted basis, the average tariff rate went from 28 percent to 15 percent. On a trad,.-
weighted basis, the average tariff is now 7 percent.
8     Satisfactory quality agricultural output data were not available.



-5 -
* Operations of the Agency for Strategic Reserves were severely limited.
> The ASR budget was cut from MKD1,250 million in 1995 to MKD220 million
in 1997.
* While very large Ministry of Agriculture expenditures on market interventions
were cut back, there was little spending by the MOA on support of private farmers
in a market framework (which was intended to complement the Private Farm
Support Project).
> However, a law devolving veterinary services to the private sector was passed
in June 1998.
11.   Progress was made in the area of reforming socially-owned enterprises and
improving the environment for private business. In many cases, it was considered that
reforms met the letter of the conditions but not their spirit:
* Of the 481 units eligible for privatization under the Law on Privatization of
Agricultural Enterprises, 381 (81 percent) were privatized, compared to the SAL
requirement of 70 percent.9
t The SAL objective was to privatize or liquidate 20 medium or large agro-
kombinats (with at least three having 1,000 or more employees). Two were
privatized before Board presentation. Following break-ups of medium
enterprises to facilitate divestment, an updated count showed that there were
altogether 14 medium-sized kombinats remaining to be privatized for second
tranche release. The privatization of five of these, and the initiation of
bankruptcy against another three, substantially fulfilled the second tranche
objective.10
>  The agro-kombinats were required to establish core activities as separate private
enterprises, and spin off non-core businesses (hotels, social facilities, retail and
transport units, processing, baking) prior to privatization, so that viable units
that had cross-subsidized others would have a better chance of attracting
investment. This measure, very unpopular among agricultural groups, was
successfully implemented--although it took much longer than envisioned and
caused the project to be extended by six months. In some instances, agro-
kombinats took measures which violated the spirit--but not the letter--of the
SAL, such as cross-ownership of shares on the part of the employee-owners of
core enterprises or units that were spun off. The Privatization Agency
developed an acceptable plan to complete the remaining agricultural
privatizations; however, the extent to which this plan has been implemented is
not clear. Therefore this sub-component can be estimated unsatisfactory.
9    However, in around 70 cases managers and employees have not paid for the shares, and ownership
has remained with the state.
Although shares were offered broadly to potential purchasers, in most cases managers and
employees were the only bidders.



- 6 -
> Continued progress was made in completing the mainstream privatization
program (initiated earlier under the FESAC project), so that 97 percent of the
enterprises identified under thait program were privatized (compared to 66
percent at the start of the SAL).
*  Of the 165 units derived from the SRP enterprises," 132 were privatized, 8 are
bankrupt, 22 are in the process of being privatized, and 3 remain state-owned. Those
privatized include 9 of the country's 10 largest loss-making enterprises.
*  The agro-kombinats were required to lease to private farmers-by competitive
bidding-15 percent of the land they held.12 While this has been accomplished, in
many cases the existing farmners leased land from the same managers and the
organizational system remained the same.13 In some cases, under the 1998 Law on
Land Restitution, pre-1945 owners have made claims on this land that the state needs
to resolve-comprising a potentially large demand on state resources.
*  A new law on rural land use was enacted, which introduced a basis for secure
property and tenancy rights-a very fundamental advance. However, a workable tille
registration system which would permit this to be implemented is not yet in place.
*  A new anti-monopoly law was passed, as were new laws on bankruptcy, collateral,
and denationalization, as well as new amendments to the employment law. In June
1999, the ICR mission found that these laws were gradually being implemented and
their benefits had yet to be achieved.
*  It should be noted that in many cases privatization was achieved by manageme it
buyout (or management takeover)-with slight participation by workers-and little )r
no assistance has been provided to finns to help them survive in the new
circumstances.
C.   Major Factors Affecting The Project
12.   The SAL took ten months to prepare, with identification occurring in Octob.r
1996, and effectiveness in June 1997. The reasons for this delay were that, following tl e
Consultative Group meeting of October 1995, the GOM perceived numerous alternati' e
sources of funding-the UK, US, Germnany, Italy, and the Netherlands. Also, the London
Club meetings in the spring and summer of 11996 relieved some of the fiscal pressure, ard
also preoccupied many top policy officials.
11   These were the pieces remaining from the break-up under the FESAC of the country's 25 largea;t
loss-making enterprises.
12  It should be noted that, prior to the SAL, around 70 percent of the land in Macedonia was already
privately held.
13  In addition, since kombinats selected the land to be leased, quality was often less than satisfactory.



-7-
13.   Although no Technical Assistance (TA) was funded directly from the SAL, the
SAL team arranged for TA that was critical to project success:
* Extensive TA for the Privatization Agency (a five-person advisory team) was
arranged under a Policy and Human Resources Development (PBRD) grant from
the Government of Japan.
*  The EU-PHARE team provided a great deal of technical assistance to the GOM in
reviewing five successive drafts of the law on rural land use-until finally an
acceptable draft was produced.
*  The Bank provided TA from the Social Reform and Technical Assistance project
to provide restructuring and diagnostic assistance to firms being privatized.
*  TA in the area of trade policy was also provided, with several officials being sent
to Australia for training.
*  Extensive TA was provided by the IME to the Customs Administration.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
14.   General elections were held in October 1998, with a second round held the
following month. The approaching election made it more difficult for the GOM to move
on politically sensitive measures, especially the privatization of the agro-kombinats.
These difficulties caused the project closing date to be delayed 6 months from the original
closing date of June 30, 1998.
15.   The SAL was not implemented utilizing a separate Project Implementation Unit
(PmU). Instead, a secretariat jointly organized by the Central Bank and the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) was responsible for project implementation.
D. Sustainability
16.   Sustainability, while uneven overall, is judged uncertain and this diagnosis
strongly influences the overall assessment of the operation. While the reforms put into
place and measures implemented have the backing of the new government, in many cases
there are still substantial actions needed to complete the reforms. Particularly in the
privatization area-while important first steps have been taken-the impact that these
measures will have on enterprise performance and productivity remains to be seen.
17.   However, the reforns have endured elections and a change of personnel in nearly
all top positions. Among workers in some privatized enterprises-even sub-units of agro-
kombinats-there is a feeling that they now have responsibility for themselves, more
flexibility, and do not have to answer to, or cross-subsidize, anyone else.



.8-
18.   In the area of trade and customs reforms, there is a strong view among policy-
makers that the reforms are a key step toward integrating the country into Europe; the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has applied to join WTO, and the tariff rates
and practices adopted are binding for accession. The GOM has a cooperation agreement
with the EU (signed in April 1997), and is attempting to align its policies and practices
with EU standards in expectation of a future association agreement.'4 The government is
aware of the signal value of the Bank's assessment of the country's structural reform
efforts, both for private foreign borrowing and for eventual EU association.
19.   In the context of the SAL reforms to improve the environment for private
business, there has been a substantial change in the legal framework from one designed to
support a socialist economy to one that is market-oriented. Still, in most cases
implementing regulations need to be developed.
20.   Regarding agricultural price reforms, the people could see that when controls we re
removed, the price of bread did not rise, and that consumers benefited from reform. A
further positive element of sustainability is the realization-among citizens and officials
alike-that budget revenues are not sufficient to sustain the policies of the past.
E.  Bank Performance
21.   Bank performance was satisfactory. As noted earlier, project objectives were clear
and realistic. The project design was approp:riate for the circumstances of the country, anid
was formulated in a highly-participative process with the Borrower and in clo e
consultation with the Fund, the EU, EBRD, and other members of the Consultative Group
for the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. However, as explained in detail belowv
("Key Lessons Learned"), the project design should probably have incorporated a
mechanism by which the Borrower could have monitored real, on-the-ground progress i n
privatization, which could have provided assistance to strengthen reforms, and a
procedure for a continuing dialogue.
22.   Many present and previous government officials interviewed praised tf-
performance of the Bank team, finding it "excellent" and "highly professional." The Bari (
team also provided infornnation (technical assistance, model statutes) that the governme: t
needed. An official of another multilateral development institution considered the Barnc
team to be especially good at sorting out and solving troublesome issues, and "as flexib;ie
as possible without compromising fundamental principles." Also, several GOM official; l
praised the ambitious SAL goals as providing a necessary push for the government; the
Bank's role was seen as key to accelerating reform. These individuals also complimente 1
the dilplomatic way in which the Bank pursued SAL goals.
14  In the aftermath of the Kosovo crisis, the EU offered Macedonia an "agreement for cooperation an:L
association," understood to be a hybrid-type arrangement. This is expected to be signed in July 1999.



- 9 -
23.   The Borrower also noted that support and follow-through from the Resident
Mission was extremely helpful. The Bank effectively monitored implementation of policy
measures specified in the project, and documented supervision missions clearly.
F.   Borrower Performance
24.   Borrower performance was satisfactory. For the most part, the letter-if not the
spirit-of reform goals was met and the government was cooperative and helpful. But in
some cases where political or interest group opposition was strong, movement was
difficult and slow. In the development of the law on rural land use, for instance, it was
necessary to write and revise five drafts before a satisfactory version could be achieved. 5
Also, the restructuring and eventual privatization of the agro-kombinats took a very long
time and considerable effort. As noted earlier, this one sub-component caused a six-
month delay in project completion. Finally, although the Ministry of Agriculture
substantially cut back expenditures on market interventions, it did little to provide
institutional support to private farmers.
G. Assessment Of Outcome
25.   Project outcome is assessed as satisfactory. As described, the project met nearly
all its objectives, and the Borrower's achievement and commitment to reform has been
substantial. Reform progress in trade policy was excellent, in agricultural policy
substantial, and in privatization and private sector development satisfactory. Nearly all
measures required of the GOM were carried out, but progress in reaching some goals was
slower than anticipated. Progress toward a rural land law and privatization of agro-
kombinats was successful-at least in carrying out the letter if not the spirit-but difficult
and time-consuming. The project has already had significant development impact, and
sustainability, while overall uncertain, is likely across many key areas of reform.
H. Future Operations
26.   Inadequate attention was paid toward future operations during the last part of the
SAL, and there was little dialogue on future operations. This was a major weakness. A
factor contributing to this was the change in government-with the widespread
replacement of nearly all policy officials as well as numerous technical staff. This
disrupted the continuity of the very successful refonn dialogue that had been taking place
during the previous three years.
I.   Key Lessons Learned
27.   Challenging Reform Targets can be an Important Stimulus to Action-In
each sector included in the SAL, targets were established which challenged the
Government of Macedonia to act boldly. The presence of the matrix and its associated
15   This drafting and revision was done, for the most part, by EU-PHARE.



- 10-
timetable undoubtedly stimulated the pace of reform by highlighting the economic
dimensions of issues and the associated benefits. The lesson here is that the setting of less
ambitious targets, even if they might have had a greater likelihood of agreement and
attainment, would probably have achieved less in the end.
28.   The Project Should Have Included a Follow-Up/Monitoring Mechanism-
SAL reforms were ambitious, and there was a strong need for the project to include a
post-completion follow-up and monitoring mechanism/organization by which the GOAI,
with the assistance of the Bank, could have: (1) verified that the reforms introduced were,
in fact, continuing to be implemented (in spirit as well as in the letter); (2) provided
assistance to complete and strengthen reforms, e.g., post-privatization enterprise
assistance, support to strengthen title registration; (3) provided a procedure by which to
sustain a dialogue on continuing and deepening reforms.16
29.   The Government Needs to Take Action to Ensure that the Agro-Kombin2tss
Fulfill the Spirit of the SAL-As noted earlier, the GOM  has met the letter of tie
requirement for the agro-kombinats to divest non-core elements and sell or lease :15
percent of their land to private farmers, but actions have fallen well short offulfilling thie
spirit of this requirement. The GOM should make it a high priority to fulfill the spirit :f
this requirement.
30.   It Would Have Been More Effective to Specify the Details of the Law cn
Land Use and the Break-Up of the Agro-Kombinats in the Loan Agreement-These
were the two most politically contentious issues, and, in hindsight, it would have bee:n
more effective to specify in the Loan Agreement the broad approach to be used in ea,;.h
area. For example, it would have been better to confront the issue of having the agr :-
kombinats divest non-core operations early, rather than have the issue require a great deail
of effort later and ultimately delay the project.
31.   Articulation of an Agricultural Sector Strategy Would Increase the Value of
SAL Reforms-An agricultural sector strategy would identify additional constraint,,
beyond those addressed in the SAL, which were limiting increases in production ard
marketed surpluses. These could include, e.g., lack of rural credit; inadequate physic il
infrastructure (including irrigation); underdeveloped information and marketing service.;
and more robust processing and marketing enterprises. The strategy would also identify
approaches to alleviating these constraints.
32.   Pertinent Technical Assistance and Effective Donor Coordination can bL e
Critical to Project Success-Although no TA was funded under the SAL, the SAL teai
maintained close coordination with other donors, and arranged for TA that was critical to
project success:
16   Examples could include an Inter-Ministerial Commission on Reform (which could have a small staf .
and in which the Bank could serve as a member); a formal dialogue, with e.g., quarterly meetings, oii
the status of reforms; and/or continuing economic sector work (ESW) on reform progress.



- 11 -
* Extensive TA for the Privatization Agency (a five-person advisory team) was
arranged from the Government of Japan.
* The EU-PHARE team provided a great deal of technical assistance in reviewing
five successive drafts of the law on rural land use.
* Extensive TA was provided by the IMF to the Customs Administration with funds
from the Bank-financed Transit Facilitation Project.
33.   In addition, the SAL utilized TA from other Bank projects:
* The Bank provided TA from the Social Reformn and Technical Assistance project
to provide restructuring and diagnostic assistance to firms being privatized.
* TA in the area of trade policy was also provided, with several officials being sent
to Australia for training.



- 12-
Part II: Statistical Tables
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans and Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Cumulative Loan Disbursements
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:      Studies Included in Project
Table 7:      Project Costing and Financing
Table 8:      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:      Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 10:    Bank Resources-Staff Inputs
Table 11:     Bank Resources--Missions



- 13 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives                                       __.__ .___
Substantial       Partial        Negligibie       N/A
Macro policies                     V
Sector Policies                    V
Financial objectives                                                              V
Institutional development                           V
Physical objectives         _
Poverty reduction             _
Gender issues                                                                     V
Other social objectives                                                           V
Environmental objectives                                                          V
Public sector management                                                          V
Private sector development    _                                                   V
Others
B. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
Likely         unely             erta
C. Bank Performance
H!dy         Satisfacory     Dericient
Satisfactory
Identification
Preparation Assistance      V
Appraisal
Supervision
D. Borrower performance
Preparation                                 V
Implementation                             V
Covenant Compliance         V
Operation (if                              V
applicable)



-14-
E. Assessment of Outcome
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and Credits
~~LoanTtle                        eXar of30;t'X\t0tLi\4ES A, roa dY    tatus0LitLT "'_____..0 
Preceding Operations
Economic Recovery Loan and Credit            1994                       Completed
Financial and Enterprise Sector              1995                       Completed
Credit                                                                               __.
Transit Facilitation                         1995                       Completed
Social Reform and Technical                  1995                        Ongoing
Assistance                                                                      ._
Health Sector Transition                     1996                        Ongoing
Private Farmer Support                       1996                        Ongoing
Private Sector Development                   1996                        Ongoing
Following Ope,ations ..                                                             _     -
Education Rehabilitation                     1998                        Ongoing
PSD II                                       1998                        Ongoing
Irrigation Development                       1998                        Ongoing
Power System Improvement                     1998                        Ongoing
GEF Grant                                    1998                        Ongoing
Social Sector Loan and Credit                1999                        Ongoing
Pension Reform Technical Assistance          1999                        Ongoing
Table 3: Project Timetable
700fd;fS, 0S6Steps in Proj_ct Cycle  IYate Planned            Actual Date..... 
Identification                      November, 1995        November, 1995
Preparation                         Januaiy, 1996         December, 1995
Appraisal                           June, 1996            June, 1996
Negotiations                        September, 1996       September, 1996
Letter of development policy        September, 1996       April 2, 1997
Board presentation                  December, 1996        May 6, 1997
Signing                             December, 1996        May 12, 1997
Effectiveness                       May, 1997             June 25, 1997
First tranche release               May, 1997             July 2, 1997
Second tranche release              March 31, 1998        November 13, 1998
Project completion (last disbursement)  March 31, 1998    November 13, 1998
Loan closing                        June 30, 1998         December 31, 1998



- 15 -
Table 4: Cumulative Loan Disbursements
(US$ millions)
FY97                  FY98                 FY99
Appraisal - Estimate          $30 million              $30
Actual*                       $23 million          $12.7 million         $18.9 million
Actual as % of estimate-        76.7%                 59.5%                 91%
Cumulative
Date of final disbursement                                                 11/13/98
*Actual disbursements are less than estimated due to exchange rate variations
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Area      Projected                    Action                     Implementation Record
T imin     __  _ __  _  _  __  _ _  __  _ _ . _  _
Trade Policy  Board     Remove QRs, rationalize import taxation,      Completed
strengthen export incentives and consolidate the
trade policy functions of government agencies
2'd tranche  a) Removal of NTBs to international trade.  Completed
b) Adoption of a unified and liberal Customs
tariff.
c) Adoption of EU-compatible Customs Law.
d) hnproved duty rebate scheme for exporters.
e) Establishment of a Trade Policy Unit in a
central Ministry and a Valuation Unit at Customs
HQ.
Agricultural  2nd tranche  Phase out budget subsidies for seed and credit,  Completed
Policy                  eliminate government-financed price premia and
guaranteed prices for selected commodities, and
reduce the interventionist role of the Agency for
Strategic Reserves (ASR).
2'd tranche  a) Elimination of seed and credit rebates.  Completed
b) Elimination of guaranteed prices in agriculture
except for wheat and tobacco.
c) Linkage of guaranteed wheat and tobacco prices
to world market prices.



-16-
Area:     Projected                      A.                  , - =n=inementation Record
d) Reform of security operations for food, fuel and
pharmaceuticals of the ASR.
e) Reorientation of the role of the Ministry of
Agriculture.
Privatization   2nd tranche  Promote divestiture of socially-owned enterprises    Completed
(SOEs) in agriculture and complete the process of
divesting socially-owned industrial and commercial
enterprises.
_   2nd tranche  a) Progressive divestiture of at least 70% of SOEs   Completed
in agriculture by the end of this operation.
b) Competitive tendering of interim rights to use
state-owned agricultural land.
c) Preparation and adoption of agreed legislation
to strengthen the framework for private sector
development.
d) By the end of SAL, divestiture of (i) at least
1,150 SOEs covered in the 1993 Privatization Law,
and (ii) at least 110 out of 123 business units
derived from large enterprises under the Special
Restructuring Program (SRP) of 1995.
e) By the end of SAL, divestiture of all business
unit spin-offs from Railways and the electric
utility.                                      _
Table 6: Studies Imcluded in Project
Study                               IAtt fSti
|None
The project did not include any studies



- 17 -
Table 7: Project Cost and Financing
A_plr"   Es*mtt                                   ActuaMatest Esthn_te
(Us$mlio)(J$  iiu
Source                        Local       Foreipg          Total         Local       Forn        Tota
Cost          Cost                        Cost           cost
IBRD                               -          30.0          30.0              -          25.9     25.9
IDA                                -          30.0          30.0              -          28.7     28.7
Cofinancing                        -           8.3           8.3              -           8.3       8.3
institutions
Other external sources             -             -             -                            -
Domestic contribution              -             -              -                           -
Total                                         68.3          68.3                         62.9     62.9
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
F Agreement  Cov'ehant  Pr-sent        -~i~iual    Revised  - DXscrtitou of Covenant             Co _mests
Setion       Type    Satus*    ulfilment  Fu- ment
Section 2.01    LA         C       02/16/98     09/25/98   Continued maintenance of a    First year of agreed
macroeconomic policy          1997-1999 framework
framework consistent with the    was completed
objectives of the Program as  successfully. Second
determined on the basis of    year program is on track.
indicators acceptable to the  Discussions for third-
Borrower and the Bank.        year program are
planned to begin in
November 1998.
Schedule 3.1    LA          C      02/16/98                Implementation of the new     New Customs tariff is in
customs tariff with no        effect.
exemptions except those
established: (i) by international
treaties; and (ii) for imports of
goods for humanitarian
purposes.
Schedule 3.2    LA          C       02/16/98               Implementation of the first   First stage implemented
stage of the program for      effective January 1,
liberalization of tariffs and/or    1998.
surcharges on items which were
previously subject to quotas
and/or special levies, which the
Borrower shall have prepared
based on guidelines agreed with
the Bank.



- 18 -
Schedule 3.3    LA         C       02116198               Establishment of a Trade Policy  Trade Monitoring Unit
Unit within a central economic   has been es ablished
Ministry of the Borrower.    within the Ministry of the
Economy.
Schedule 3.4    LA         C       01/30/98               Adoption of a formula,        Guaranteed 1997 prices
satisfactory to the Bank, linking  did not exc :ecl world
guaranteed base prices for   market prices. 1998
wheat and tobacco to world   prices set al: 70% of
market prices so that such   world market prices,
prices shall not exceed 100  using formtula agreed
percent of the world market  with the Bank and
prices in 1997 and 70%       circulated bhy the
thereafter.                  Ministry of ihe
Economy.
Schedule 3.5    LA         C       01/30/98                Elimination of guaranteed base   Eliminated from May
prices for sugar beet, and    1997.
sunflower.
Schedule 3.6    LA         C       05/30/97               Subrnission to the Bank of    Approved Ei97 and
evidence, satisfactory to the  1998 budget; confirm
Bank, that the Borrower is   compliance.
under no legal obligation to
award price premia for sugar
beet, sunflower, other oilseeds
and milk, and that all necessary
measures shall have been taken
to ensure that such payments
are ceased, effective May 1,
1997.
Schedule 3.7    LA         C       02/16/98                Submission to the Bank of a  A plan, followving
plan, satisfactory to the Bank,    principles saw sfactory to
for the security operations for   the Bank, wa, sabmitted
food, fuel and pharmaceuticals   on March 19. 1998.
of the Agency for Strategic
Reserves.
Schedule 3.8    LA         C       02/16/98                Submission to the Parliament of  Draft, satisfactory to the
the Borrower for final reading    Bank, was su':'mitted to
of a draft Law on Land Use,  Parliament or. May 5,
satisfactory to the Bank.    1998 and adopted on
May 27, 199F
Schedule 3.9    LA         C       02/16/98                Signing of contracts for     Of the 467 units eligible
privatization, or cessation of  for privatizati ,n, 381
operations and initiation of  (i.e., 81%) ha te been
liquidation proceedings, of at    privatized or I:quidated.
least 70% of enterprises eligible  Among the enterprises
for privatization in accordance   privatized or liquidated,



- 19 -
Agreement  Covent  Ir          :  :         :  R  vl%itd      e I   i:t                      Comm-nts
Section      Type    Status*  FftiIment  Fu-ment
Date        Date
with the Law on Privatization of 3 were kombinats with
Agricultural Enterprises, dated   more than 1,000
April 12, 1996; provided,    employees. Also, 8
however, that such enterprises    medium-size kombinats
shall include at least three (3)    with between 200 and
agro-kombinats with more than   1,000 employees have
1,000 employees and at least an  been privatized (5) or are
additional seventeen (17) agro-  in bankruptcy
kombinats with more than 200   proceedings (3). The
employees.                   SAL objective was to
privatize or start
liquidating about 30% of
the 65 medium-sized
kombinats counted at
appraisal; ie, privatize or
start liquidating 19
kombinats. Two were
privatized before Board
presentation, leaving 17
to be privatized for
second tranche release.
Following break-ups of
medium enterprises to
facilitate divestment, an
updated count
subsequently showed
there were altogether 14
medium-size kombinats
remaining to be
privatized for second
tranche action. The
privatization and/or
initiation of bankruptcy
against 8 of these is
considered to have
substantially fulfilled the
second tranche objective
for medium-size
kombinats.
Schedule        LA         C       02/16/98                Signing of contracts for     By a more updated
3.10                                                      privatization, or cessation of  count, there were 165
operations and initiation of  units derived from SRP
liquidation proceedings, of a  enterprises. Of these, 129
cumulative total of at least 110   have been privatized or
business units derived from  liquidated. The
SRP enterprises; provided,   privatized and/or
however, that this total shall    liquidated enterprises
include at least 9 of the 10  included 9 of the 10
enterprises determined by    largest loss-making
agreement between the        enterprises.



- 20 -
Borrower and the Bank, as the
Borrower's largest loss-making
enterprises.
Schedule        LA         C       02116/98               Adoption by the Parliament of   Drafts of the laws
3.11                                                       the Borrower of (i) a new    specified in this covennrt
Bankruptcy Law; and (ii) a new   were discus .sed with
Collateral Law, in each case  Bank staff, and final
satisfactory to the Bank.    versions, d! emed
satisfactorY, have been
adopted. Parliament
adopted th., Bankruptcy
Law on October 22,
1997; the law became
effective si:c rnonths
later.
As regards Collateral
Law, Parliament adopteJ
one on imn: ovable
property orn October 17,
1997, and one on
movable property on
April 28, 1S98.
C   complied with
LA  Loan Agreement
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Stiite   tNmbr andlwi t                    Desription and Commnet on Liack o
_                              t:: u0;0;:V0:Rtiut:;At i;::t: complane;   ;;0X:V 
All relevant OM requLirements complied with
Table 10: Bank Resources--Staff Inputs
St*e of= Pmject Cycle          W.eks        US$
Preparation to appraisal               56.9          226.6          56.9         224.4
Appraisal, negotiations                47.1          188.5          47.8         190.9
through Board approval
Supervision                            61.7          235.5          55.5         190.9
Completion                              5.5           20.0            n/a          n/a
Total                                 171.2          670.6         160.2         606.2



- 21 -
Table 11: Bank Resources -- Missions
PerOrmance *tn
Stage of Cycle   Month!   No. of  Days  Specialized   Implementation  D)evelopment   Types of
Year   Persons   in    Staff Skils        Status        Objectives   Problems
Field
Through Appraisal
Identification   11/95    3     5      Sr Economist        n.a.            n.a.
Trade Pol
Agri Econ
Technical     12/95    2        8      Trade Pol           n.a.            n.a.
PSD Spec
Pre-appraisal  01/96    6        10    Sr Economnist       n.a.            n.a.
Trade Pol
PSD Spec
Agri Econ
Researcher
Appraisal through Board approval
Appraisal     6/96     7         18    Sr Economist        n.a.            n.a.
Trade Pol
Agri Econ
Land Pol
Agro Ind
Compliance    12/96    1        6      Land Policy         n.a.            n.a.
Expert
Supervision    5/97    5         10    Sr Economist         S               S
Trade Pol
Agri Pol
PSD Spec
Lawyer
Supervision    9/97    3        5      Sr Economist         S               S
PSD Spec
Macroecon
Supervision    3/98    4        5      Sr Economist         S               S
Macroecon
Agri Pol
PSD Spec.



- 22 -
!gg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
Tranche          9/98        3          3       Sr Economist             S                   S
release                                         PSD Spec
Agri Pol
Supervision/       4/99        1          8
completion
Note:
Agri Econ - Agricultural Economist Expert
Agri Pol - Agricultural Policy Expert
Agro Ind - Agro-Industrial Specialist
Macroecon - Macroeconomist
Land Pol - Land PolicyExpert
PSD Spec - Private Sector Development Specialist
Trade Pol - Trade Policy Economist



- 23 -
Annex 1
Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit
Aide Memoire of the ICR Mission
June 25, 1999
1.   A World Bank mission consisting of Mr. Elliott Hurwitz (Consultant) visited
Macedonia from June 20-26 to assist the Government with and gather information for the
Implementation Completion Report for the Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit. The
mission wishes to thank the Government of Macedonia for their helpful cooperation and
warm hospitality.
2.   The mission discussed the Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit with current and
former officials of the Ministry of Finance, Privatization Agency, Ministry of Agriculture,
Customs Administration, and other multilateral lending agencies.
3.   The mission discussed with the agencies and individuals noted the three main areas
included in the SAL: trade policy reforms; agricultural policy reforms; and the reform of
socially-owned enterprises.
4.   The mission discussed preliminary findings with the Government, and will take its
comments into account while preparing the implementation completion report (ICR). The
mission also provided additional information to the Government on the Borrower
Contribution to the ICR. It is understood that this report will be submitted to the Bank no
later than June 30, 1999 and this contribution will then be included, unedited, as an
appendix to the ICR.
5.  It was the mission's preliminary judgment that the Structural Adjustment Loan and
Credit was implemented satisfactorily and was very successful in achieving its
development objectives. In trade, quantitative restrictions have been eliminated, tariffs
and trade taxes have been reduced substantially and their structure rationalized, and there
has been significant progress in rationalizing and strengthening trade institutions.
Additional measures in the trade area include establishment of a Customs valuation unit,
reduction in export assistance payments, and adoption of a number of transparent and
EU-compatible procedures.
6.  In the agricultural policy area, significant reforms were implemented that reduced
interventions in output prices, ended input subsidies (including the elimination of seed
rebates), and reformed and constrained the operations of the Agency for Strategic
Reserves.
7.  In the reform of socially-owned enterprises, the government took important steps to
privatize state-owned agricultural, industrial, and commercial enterprises. Over 80
percent of the firms eligible for privatization were either privatized or liquidated,



-24 -
including three agro-kombinats with more than 1,000 employees and 16 additional ag o-
kombinats. Also, nine of the country's ten largest loss-making enterprises were either
privatized or liquidated. In addition, several irnportant laws were adopted to create a
condlucive environment for private sector development, and a new law on land t.se
introduced secure property and tenancy rights. Excise and profit taxes were reduced, and
new legislation introduced to modernize bankruptcy proceedings and strengthen credil:hr
rights to collateral.
8.   It is the preliminary judgment of the rmission that in the conduct of the Structural
Adjustment Loan and Credit, the benefits achieved under the project are likely to '.e
sustained. It is further judged that the perforrnance of both the Borrower and the Barik
were at. least satisfactory, and potentially highly satisfactory. The outcome of the SAL
was satisfactory.
9.   Key Lessons Learned included: Challenging reform targets can be an extremeiy
important stimulus to action; The strategy o;f requiring agro-kombinats to divest non-cor[e
businesses before privatizing was sound; T'he value of the reforms achieved under the
SAL would be increased if an agiicultural sector strategy were articulated; It would have
been desirable to specify the details of the law on land use and the break-up of the agrc -
kombinats in the loan agreement. These lessons will be explained in greater detail in tli
ICR.



- 25 -
Annex 2
Borrower Contribution to ICR






REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
No. 10
Skopje                                                   1999
To: THE WORLD BANK
WASHINGTON D.C.
Attn.: Mr. Elliot Hurwitz
Consultant
Fax: (301) 657-8025
E-mail: ehurwitz@worldbank.org
Subject: Credit and Loan for Structural Adjustment (SAL)
Implementation Complition Report Preparations
With respect to the preparations of the Final Report on the implementation of
the Credit and Loan for the SAL arrangement, the Ministry of Finance as coordinator
in the realization of the anticipated conditions by the World Bank has a pleasure to
give you its view on the implementation of the Project.
The Miniistry of Finiance has a positive estimation on the completion of the
Project, and especially its further implementation. Namely, the reforms that were
anticipated to be carTied out within the Project, besides their extremely difficult
nature and their fast realization, were successfully completed and implemented
further on.
1) In achievinig its established objectives, the Loan for the Structural Adjustment
(SAL) covered tlhree main areas: refonns of the trade policy, reforms of the
agricultural policy and reforms referred to the socially owned enterprises. The
reforms included extending the privatization and restructuring of the agricultural
sector, enhancing of the developmiient framework for the private sector, completion of
the mandate of the Privatization Agency for transformation of the socially owned
enterprises from the commercial sector and the completion of the privatization of the
enterprises under the Special Restructuring Program.
As for the agricultural sector, the most important issue was the beginning of
the process of privatization of the Agrocoinbinats, while the other objectives were to
support the structural refonns in the domain of the prices, the liberalization and
privatization including the reforms in the agricultural policy as well as extending the
privatization in the domain of agriculture.
2) The established objectives by the World Bank were timely met. Taking into
consideration the state of the competitiveness of the market that is already established
in our country, the established objectives are quite well achieved. This especially
applies to the adoption of the legal regulation and the changes that were to be made.
Namely, the Law on
Use of the agricultural land as well the Law o01 transfornation of tle socially
owned enterprises that use agricultural land have been adopted by the Parliament of
the Republic of Macedonia, besides the longer period of time that was reqtuired for
their adoption. Also, it should be emphasized that in the anaticipated legal framework
1



the Antirnlonopoly law, the Law on customs duties, the Law on employment ancl the
Law on Denationalization were adopled.
The drafts of the Proposals of adoption of the Law on amendment aad
supplement of the Law on Banikruptcy as well as the Proposal of adoption of the :aw
on collateral are prepared, so that in the following days and after receiving opir'. ions
fronm the relevant ministlies withiin the intersectorial cooperation, they will be
presented to the Government of the Republic of Macedonia.
One of the objectives, upon request of the World Bank, was the eliminaticn of
thie subsidies and the protection, while the protective prices of the wheat and the
tobacco to be 30% lower then the world prices.
The objectives referred to the privatization of the agriculture were complcted
quite successfully. As of 23 September, 1998 75% of the enterprises that were under
privatization were privatized, liquidated or in process of liquidation (according to the
Law on tranisfomiation of enterprises and agricultural cooperatives with socially
owned capital which deal with agricultural land.) Also, a plan on privatization of the
other enterprises was developed.
In imiplemenitatiotn of the privatization of enterprises from the comrner iial
sector as of 23 Septemnber, 1998, 1091 enterprises were privatized. If we add 53
enterprises that were under bankruptcy procedure at that time and 30 enterprises with
privatizationi process not completed, but more than 51 % of the share capital WLas
already private, we shall receive the number of 1,174 enterprises that were actually
privatized as of September, 23 1998.
With respect to the completion of the privatization of the enterprises under the
Special restructuring program, as of September 23, 1998, 165 legal entities were
established out of the 23 loss-making enterprises. In 108 enterprises the privatization
is finished, 15 were transfonned, 7 are in some of the stages of privatization, 8 in
bankruptcy procedure and 3 are public enterprises.
The privatization of the parts-legal entities separated form  Macedor ian
railways, Elektrostopanstvo of RM  was carried out so that all 8 legal entiJies
separated from Macedonian railways as of September 23, 1998 are privatized, in
bankruptcy procedure or liquidated, and out of Elektrostapnstvo of RM  6 legal
entities are privatized.
3) Witlh respect to the fiactrs that had impact on the realization of the Projtict
it slhould be emphasized that beyond the control of the Government were the fact:wn;
such as the political instability in the region and the environmient.
4) The achieved results of thie Project can be assessed as sustainable due to hie
reason that with the privatization the objective is achieved and private legal entities
are established. Withi this, one of the basic purposes of the process has been achiev nd.
determining of the ownersliip in the socially owned enterprises and defining of II X
entities that would be the Imlost interested for keeping the companies in the marl; et
oriented system.
The restructuring of the agricultural sector also resulted in new private
persons who in future depending on their decisions, would enter into business
relations, but nlow under market conditions. The process of privatization of tIie
Agrocombinats started with the adoption of the amendments of the Law  :on
tranisfonnation of the enterprises with socially owned capital that use agricultural laLd
by the Parliament of the Republic of Macedonia. The premiums and the protectionls
are almiiost eliminated and according to the large inflexibility of the World Bank in tPle
requirement for implementation  of the  legal regulations  and  during  the
2



I 003
implementation itself, certain problems have occurred whichi might cause new
amendments of the Laws.
The same applies to the results of the Special restructuring program. Out of 23
loss-making enterprises, with one of the most difficult projects, preconditions for the
new legal entities to carry on with the business activily are created. on market-viable
basis.
However, the process of privatization continues with unreduced intensity. The data on
the number of privatized enterprises in the meantime confiri thlis. The recently
adopted amendments of the laws that cover the privatizatioln process are in favor of its
acceleration, higher efficiency of the procedures and the process, as well as enabling
entry of the investors that are not insiders of the entelprises.
5) We can assess that the operation of the baik., duri ng thie whole
implementation period, was efficient, useful anid provided big support for all
institutions that took part in the realization of the project. It applies to all phases of
the designing and implementing of the Project. In ceitain stages anid for certain
activities, the authority of the Bank was very useful for thie final relation of the
anticipated activities. This especially applies to the restructuring of the agriculture
where on the contrary, the implementation would have been thlreatened. Yet, it is
desirable to have higher engagement of the local experts in this kiind of projects. The
use of their engagement would have applied not only to the relevant project and its
better realization, but it would have side and long term effects in the business culture,
the climate and the environment in the Republic of Macedonia.
6) For the achievements of the client in the circunstances in which the Project
was implemented it could be said that all the subjecLs that were engaged have realized
the established objectives and activities in a satisfactory manner. There is a possibility
for better conununication and coordination betweeni all govermnental institutions that
were ilnvolved in its implementation.
7) In assessment of the result from the project it cani be stressed that the
privatization and the restructuring were carried out in the largest agrocombiliats, or a
plan was developed for its completion in order to find out better solutions anid ways
for higher efficiency on the world's miiarkets.
It is an' assessment that in the period of their establishment, the so determ-ined
objectives were appropriate for the required reform  activities in the Republic of
Macedonia. Generally speaking, the implementation of the SAL was quite successful
and besides numerous difficulties faced during its iiiplemiienitatioli.
8) The future operations that are anticipated are in the process of privatization
that continues with unreduced intensity. The data on the number of privatized
enterprises in the meantime prove that. The recently adopted aniendments of the law
covering the process of privatization are in favor of its acceleration, higher efficiency
of the procedures and the process, as well as enablinig access to the investors who are
not insiders of the enterprises.
As for the agricultural sector, it could be said tlhat since the benefits were
legally adopted they could only be used for support of the farmers that are currently
working on the rented land or the employees in the Agrocombinats, wiho will become
welfare cases after the liquidation of thie agrcombinats.
9) For the basic leamed lessons one can conclude that the privatizationi is one
of the most difficult structural reforms in the transition countries. A high coherency of
the measures and the activities is required. In parallel with tlhe privatization it is
needed to build up the institutions of the administration of the market economy. It is
necessary to have education of the public so that new shareholders could use anid
3



exercise their rights completely. The need for appropriate legal regulation of tlhe
relations in and between the legal entities, the functiolning of the entities established
by the privatization is clear. Finally, it is in favor of ihe keeping the credibility of the
process of privatization and the shareholding in general.
Ministi! nance
Boris Stojmeenov
4



