Report No. PIC3607
Project Name              Macedonia-Structural Adjustment Loan and...
Credit (SAL)
Region                    Europe and Central Asia (ECA)
Sector                    Economic Management
Project ID                MKPA38393
Borrower                  Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Finance, Dame Gruev 14
Skopje 91000
Tel: (389-91) 116 012; Fax: (389-91) 117 280
Environment Category      C
Date PID Prepared         July 22, 1996
Project Appraisal         June 6, 1996
Project Board date        December 10, 1996
Peer Reviewers            Michael Nightingale, EMTAW and Russell Muir
PSD
Country and Sector Background
1.   A member of the Yugoslav Federation until September 1991, the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is a small, landlocked and largely
mountainous country of about 26 thousand square kilometers and two
million people. The rate of growth of population is just under one
percent per year and the country's income per capita was US$840 in 1995.
2.   Nearly half the area of the country is devoted to agriculture,
split about equally between cultivated area and pastures. Agriculture
contributes about 20 percent of GDP and industry and services 40 percent
each. International trade is an important activity in the economy. In
1993-95, exports averaged US$1,130 million per year and imports,
US$1,300 million per year. The country's economy is supported
moderately with basic infrastructure for transport, communications,
water supply and power; efforts are under way to improve the management
of these services and develop them further with more modern facilities.
The state of human resources development is favorable: primary school
enrolent and adult literacy rates are nearly 90 percent; life expectancy
is 73 years and infant mortality rate, 24 per thousand live births.
3.   Economic management in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is
in transition as the country tries to alter the system of "social
ownership" inherited from former Yugoslavia. Under that system, capital
was owned by society at large while enterprise governance was entrusted
to workers' councils. The socially-owned enterprises incurred
substantial losses, which were financed with credits from banks owned
and controlled by them. The banks, in turn, were supported by
subsidized credits from the Central Bank. These resulted in large
quasi-fiscal deficits that led to loss of monetary control and rampant



inflation.
4.   Attempts to stabilize the economy during 1992-93 failed owing to a
rapidly shrinking revenue base and a growing wage-price spiral. Since
1994, however, the government has successfully implemented strict
budgetary discipline, and conducted strong incomes and monetary policies
to turn the economy back from the brink of hyperinflation. The
government also enacted basic laws in 1993-94 to begin dismantling the
socially-owned enterprise and financial sectors. To that end, it
established the institutional machinery--the Bank Rehabilitation Agency
and the Privatization Agency--necessary to effect structural changes.
The Structural Adjustment Program
5.   Structural adjustments todate have emphasized systemic reforms,
including divestitures, in the socially-owned industrial enterprises,
the financial sector and the system of social transfers. These reforms
are being supported by a US$85 million equivalent IDA Credit, the
Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (FESAC), approved on
May 16, 1995. Details of the FESAC can be found in World Bank Report
No. P-6539-MK of April 19, 1995. As the next stage of its adjustment
program, the Government is now preparing policies and legislation to
address some remaining economic distortions, particularly in the trade
and agriculture sectors.
6.   The key distortions in trade policy are the selective bans and
restrictions on import and export volumes, special import levies on some
agricultural imports, and widespread exemptions from import duties.
These overwhe the apparently straightforward basic tariff. In
agriculture, there are explicit budget subsidies, guaranteed fixed
prices for key commodities, and the operation of the Agency for
Strategic Reserves. The distortions mean that consumers are paying too
much for basic items such as bread, the burden on taxpayers is too high,
fewer resources are available for essential public spending, and the
scarce moneys available for domestic investment are spent in areas in
which the country lacks a competitive edge. In the enterprise sector,
many agro-kombinats lack the incentive structure to generate new growth
in a market environment; their continuing presence inhibits new private
investment. Government policy now is to alter this situation to enable
the country's small economy, with limited financial resources, to
integrate into regional and world markets, and achieve strong and
sustained growth.
The Proposed Loan and Credit
7.   Objectives.  The proposed operation will reinforce ongoing economic
reforms in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. The specific
objectives of the SAL are to support implementation of the Government's
policies to: (a) liberalize further the trade regime; (b) reduce price
interventions in agriculture; and (c) privatize socially-owned
enterprises in agriculture.
8.   Description.  The proposed Loan, in the amount of US$30 million,
would be made to the Government for 20 years, including a five-year
grace period, at the Banks's standard variable interest rate. The
-2 -



proposed Credit, in the amount of SDR10 million, would be on IDA terms,
with a 35-year maturity, including a 10-year grace period. Both would
constitute balance of payments support to the Government.
9.   Financing.  Proceeds of the loan and credit will be disbursed
against satisfactory implementation of an agreed adjustment program,
including compliance with stipulated tranche release conditions and
achievement of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework.
10. Environmental Aspects. In accordance with the Bank's Operational
Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01), the proposed operation
has been placed in Category "C" and would not require an environmental
assessment.
11. Implementation Arrangements. The Ministry of Finance will oversee
implementation of the reform program. The Bank will monitor the
implementation of agreed measures through periodic reviews.
Contact Point: Hassan Fazel, EClCO
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-3061
Fax: (202) 477-8518
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending July 26, 1996.
- 3 -



