Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6976 MK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDAI ION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTr ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUAL TO DM 44.4 MILLION
AND ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 20.6 MILLION
TO THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND CREDIT
April 10, 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may uiot otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit = Denar (MDen)
Period Average Exchange Rates
(New denars per US dollar)
1990         1991          1992         1993          1994         1995          1996
0.113        0.197          5.1          23.2         43.3          38.1         40.1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEAU       -   Agro-Enterprise Assistance Unit
ASR        -   Agency for Strategic Reserves
CAS        -   Country Assistance Strategy
CMEA       -   Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
EBRD       -   European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ESAF       -   Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU         -   European Union
FESAC    -   Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
GDP        -   Gross Domestic Product
GSP        -   Gross Social Product
IDA        -   International Development Association
IFC        -   International Finance Corporation
IMF        -   International Monetary Fund
MEBO       -   Management and/or Employee Buy-out
MLT        -   Medium- and Long-term
NBM        -   National (Central) Bank of Macedonia
PA         -   Privatization Agency
PHRD       -   Policy and Human Resources lDevelopment
PSE        -   Producer Subsidy Equivalent
SAL        -   Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit
SDR        -   Special Drawing Rights
SFRY       -   Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SRP        -   Special Restructuring Prograrm
STF        -   Systemic Transformation Facility
USAID    -   United States Agency for International Development
VAT        -   Value Added Tax
WTO        -  World Trade Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
Task Manager: Hassan Fazel
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn               Country Economist: Thomas O'Brien
Director: Kenneth G. Lay                       Sr. Agricilllura]ist: Charles Antho]t
Division Chief: Christiaan J. Poortman         Sr. Agric Economist: Martin Herman
Sr. Financial Specialist: Charles E. Woodruff



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit
Loan/Credit and Program Summuar
Borrower:        Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Amount:          Bank loan DM44.4 million (US$30 million equivalent). IDA credit SDR20.6 million
(US$30 million equivalent)
Terms:           Bank loan for 20 years, including a five-year grace, at the standadrd interest rate for
LIBOR-based Deutsche mark loans. IDA credit for 35 years, including a 10-year grace
period.
Description:     The proposed loan/credit would support Government in: (a) consolidating recent structural
reforms involving price liberalization, bank rehabilitation and privatization, divestiture of
socially-owned industrial enterprises and adjustment of the social safety net, and (b)
advancing the reform program to the next logical stage involving trade and agricultural
policy reformns and the extension of privatization to the agricultural sector.
Benefits and     Reforms under this operation would strengthen the incentives for sustainable growth of
Risks:           trade and agriculture in the country. Such growth is vital to effecting overall economic
recovery. The implementation of trade and agricultural policy reforms is also expected to
alleviate over time the significant financial burdens which current policies impose on the
country's consumers and taxpayers. The reforms, moreover, will enhance the role of the
private sector as Government moves to divest socially-owned enterprises in agriculture.
Significant risks are posed by domestic tensions resulting from the prolonged, transition-
induced economic decline and unemployment. Should this weaken the resolve to continue
with the reform program, the budget and trade deficits might widen and payments arrears
recur. But Government is aware that the planned reforms are essential to secure the
benefits of past stabilization and adjustment measures, and go on to integrate the country's
economy into the regional and world markets.
Poverty Links:   Removal of existing protection and subsidies in agriculture, which largely benefit agro-
kombinats, will lead to more competitive and stable markets, and improve the well-being
of the rural population. Compared to a no-reform scenario, prices of staple foods would be
lower when the reforms are fully implemented, benefitting non-agricultural households.
This would help mitigate some of the effects of unemployment created by privatization and
the transition to a market economy. It would also help offset the losses of those few small
producers in the private sector who benefit from the existing protection and subsidies.
Estimated        The loan and credit would be disbursed in two tranches against satisfactory implementation
Disbursenents:   of the adjustment program, including compliance with stipulated tranche release conditions
and maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework. All funds are expected to
be disbursed by March 31, 1998.
Project ID No:   MK-PA-38393
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND CREDIT
Contents                                      Page No.
I. INTRODUCTION                ...................1..................... 
H. MACROECONOMIC   FRAMEWORK   ..........................   2
Recent Policies and Performance ..............................   2
Medium-term  Policies  ....................................    5
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects  .......................   7
External Debt and Creditworthiness ............................    8
Downside Risks ........           ................................  10
IM. TRADE  POLICIES  AND  ISSUES ............................  11
Background     ..........................................    11
The Trade Regime ............ 12
Assessment of the Trade Regime   .............................  14
IV. AGRICULTURAL  PRICING  AND  MARKETING   .................  16
Background .           .......................................... 16
The Tools of Government Intervention  ..........................  17
The Impact of Intervention  .................................   18
V. EXTENDING THE PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM    ..................  20
Background   ..........................................  20
Privatization in Agriculture  .................................  20
VI. THE  GOVERNMENT'S  REFORM   PROGRAM    ..................  24
Reform  Objectives  ......................................  24
Liberalizing Trade Policy  ..................................  25
Reforming Agricultural Policy  ...............................  27
Privatizing Socially-owned Enterprises  ..........................  28
Budgetary Impact of Reforms   ...............................  31
Social Impact and Poverty Links ..............................  31
VII. THE  PROPOSED  BANK  LOAN  AND  IDA  CREDIT   .............  33
Rationale for Bank Involvement  ..............................  33
Conditions for Board Presentation and Second Tranche Release  ....                 .......  33
Loan and Credit Administration  ..............................  35
Benefits and Risks  ......................................  36
Vm. RECOMMENDATION .37



Annex 1     - Letter of Development Policy
Annex 2     - Policy Matrix
Annex 3     - Policy Reforms Implemented under FESAC
Annex 4     - Data on the Agriculture Sector
Annex 5     - Institutional Capacity for Privatization
Schedule B   - Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Schedule C   - Timetable of Key Processing Events
Schedule D   - Status of Bank Group Operations
Schedule E   - Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia at a Glance
MAP         - IBRD 25501R



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
FOR STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit (SAL) to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia'
to support the Government in advancing its economic reform program. The proposed Loan, in
the amount of DM 44.4 million, would be made to the Government for 20 years, including a
five-year grace period, at the standard interest rate for LIBOR-based Deutsche mark loans. The
proposed Credit for SDR 20.6 million, the equivalent of US$30 million, would be on IDA
terms, with a 35-year maturity, including a 10-year grace period.
2.    The Government's reform program, pursued vigorously over the past two years despite
an extremely challenging external environment, aims to establish viable financial conditions and
transform the country's economic system from one based on planned allocation of resources and
social ownership to that based on decentralized market mechanisms underpinned by wide private
ownership. To that end, the Government has been stabilizing the economy successfully since
1994. At the same time, it has carried out bold, first-round structural reforms involving
widespread price liberalization, fiscal restructuring, bank rehabilitation and privatization,
divestitures of socially-owned industrial enterprises, and adjustment of the social safety net.
3.    The combination of a weak economy following from decades of poor policies, the break-
up of former Yugoslavia and incoherent macroeconomic policies resulted in precipitous drops
in output, employment and living standards in the country during 1991-1994 (see Table 1). The
stabilization and reform measures initiated in 1994-95 have sharply reduced inflation and begun
to stabilize production, but the economy remains weak and recorded unemployment quite high.
This situation has caused an increasing "reform fatigue", to counter which, the Government finds
it paramount that the economy begin to grow soon.
4.    Given the country's small domestic market as well as its location and resource
endowments, the Government has rightly identified trade and agriculture as having major
potential to spearhead economic growth. It also realizes that growth in these sectors is impeded
by serious policy and institutional deficiencies. It has therefore chosen to focus the next stage
of reforms on these sectors and thus the proposed SAL has been designed to support
1/    The designation "the formner Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia" is being used provisionally until a name is agreed
with the Bank.



2
implementation of trade and agricultural policy reforms and the extension of privatization to
socially-owned enterprises in agriculture.2
5.     The Government's trade policy reform  has removed quantitative restrictions and is
proceeding to rationalize and lower the system of multiple import taxation and exemptions,
strengthen export incentives and consolidate trade policy functions currently spread among
different agencies. Agricultural policy reform aims to phase out budget subsidies for seed and
credit, eliminate government-financed price premia and guaranteed prices for selected
commodities, and reduce the interventionist role of the Agency for Strategic Reserves. The
implementation of the trade and agricultural policy reforms is expected to alleviate over time the
significant financial burdens which current policies impose on the country's consumers and
taxpayers. The reforms, moreover, will result in efficient price signals to the private sector in
agriculture that is likely to grow as Government moves now to divest socially-owned agro-
kombinats following enactment of the Law for Privatization of Agricultural Enterprises and
Cooperatives (the Agricultural Privatization Law).
6.     This report is organized as follows.  Section II summarizes the macroeconomic
framework and outlook. Sections III - V assess the country's trade regime, existing agricultural
price interventions, and socially-owned enterprises in agriculture.  The structural reform
measures to be supported by the proposed SAL are presented in Section VI. Section VII
explains the Bank's assistance strategy and the conditions of the proposed Loan and Credit. The
Government's Letter of Development Policy underlying the proposed operation and the
associated policy matrix are appended as, respectively, Annex 1 and Annex 2.
11. MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
Recent Policies and Performance
7.     From its inception in September 1991 the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has
experienced, in common with other transition economies, major dislocations in production,
employment and social welfare. Economic management was further complicated until very
recently by financial, trade and transit embargoes brought on by the regional military conflict
and bilateral political differences. The country persevered, nevertheless, towards a remarkably
stable financial setting by 1994-95; it also began implementing structural reforms in the socially-
owned enterprise and banking sectors and in the provision of social transfer payments. Selected
indicators of recent performance are given in Table 1 below.3
2/     The privatization program thus far has been governed by the Law on Social Capital, passed in 1989 in former
Yugoslavia, and the Law for Transformation of Socially-Owned Enterprises (the Privatization Law), passed in June 1993.
Both these laws, in the main, confined divestiture to socially-owned capital and enterprises in real estate, commerce and
industry.
3/     Further details of recent economic performance are contained in Former Yueoslav Republic of Macedonia: An
UPdating Economic Report; December 20, 1996; distributed by the Secretary's Department (CG 97-1) on January 17, 1997
for the Joint G-24 and Consultative Group Meeting held on February 25-26, 1997.



3
8.    The disruption of old modes of production and marketing as the Council for Mutual
Economic Assistance (CMEA) and the Yugoslav Federation broke up, coupled with the trade
and transit sanctions, have resulted in substantial economic decline in the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia. Between 1990 and 1995, recorded statistics show that real GDP fell
nearly 30 percent, the volume of trade flows dropped about 40 percent, and the volume of
investment in 1995 was less than half its 1990 level. The rate of registered unemployment
increased from 17 percent in 1990 to 24 percent in 1995, and a large share of the working-age
population dropped out of the labor force. Officially measured real consumption fell at a rate
of five percent per year in 1990-95.
9.    The steep decline in output began to bottom out during 1996 as: (a) the traditional, more
economic transshipment routes were reopened, (b) work began on several foreign-financed
infrastructure investments (power, telecommunications, Skopje airport rehabilitation, gas
pipeline) and (c) production began recovering in some industrial sub-sectors (leather and fur,
beverages, construction materials, electricity, transport equipment). However, unemployment
continued to grow during 1996 with layoffs in enterprises undergoing restructuring.
Table 1: SELECTED MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
(Percentages)
Est.
1992   1993   1994   1995  1996
Growth Rates
Real GDP                  -7.7   -8.4   -4.0   -1.4    1.1
Real Consumption per capita  -13.3   -3.4    0.7   -4.7    3.7
Export Volume, GNFS        0.8  -18.5  -11.2  -16.4  -21.1
Import Volume, GNFS      -13.9   -8.0   -3.4  -12.6   -1.6
Retail Prices (Dec. over Dec.) 1935.3  229.5   55.1    9.0    1.9
Unemployment Rate            18.6   18.7   20.7   23.7   24.8
Ratios to GDP
Gross Domestic Investment  15.2   16.3   15.4   17.3   18.9
Fiscal Balance             -9.6  -13.6   -3.2   -0.9   -0.4
External Current Balance   -0.8   -0.5   -9.0   -7.5  -13.2
(excluding foreign grants)
10.   Attempts to stabilize the economy during 1992-93 failed owing to a rapidly shrinking
revenue base and a growing wage-price spiral. In 1994, however, the govemment implemented
strict budgetary discipline, and conducted strong incomes and monetary policies to tum the
economy back from the brink of hyperinflation. The Government's stabilization policies were
supported with a first purchase from the IMF's Systemic Transformation Facility (STF) early
in 1994 followed, in May 1995, with a second purchase under the STF plus a Stand-by



4
Arrangement. The Stand-by was completed successfully at the end of June 1996, and a
successor program for 1997-99 has been negotiated under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF) to help implement further stabilization and structural reforms elaborated in a
medium-term Policy Framework Paper (PFP).4
11.   The country's anti-inflation thrust was continued in 1995-96 with significantly increased
fiscal support for monetary policy. The Govemment built up large deposits with the central
bank (NBM), allowing the latter to absorb foreign exchange inflows without need for an
appreciation of the denar. In 1994, such absorption of foreign exchange had tended to weaken
control over reserve money growth due to a lack of effective instruments for sterilization.
Meanwhile, the replacement of the bad assets of the largest bank, Stopanska Banka, with a
Govemment bond and the liquidation of the second largest bank, the Bank for Foreign Trade,
substantially reduced the need to extend liquidity credits to troubled banks. Fiscal resources
were also provided to accelerate restructuring of the largest loss-making socially-owned
enterprises, hitherto responsible for large quasi-fiscal deficits.
12.   Basic laws were enacted in 1993-94 to begin dismantling the grossly inefficient socially-
owned enterprise and financial sectors, and reforming the social safety net. Following enactment
of these laws, Government established the institutional machinery--the Bank Rehabilitation
Agency and the Privatization Agency--necessary to effect structural changes, which gathered
pace from the first quarter of 1995. The Bank supported these endeavors with the Economic
Recovery Loan and Credit and the Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (FESAC).
13.   To date, adjustment measures in the enterprise sector have focused on restructuring 23
of the largest loss-making enterprises and the two largest utilities (power and railways),
accounting for about 55 percent of total losses in the enterprise sector and 20 percent of
registered employment. These socially-owned enterprises have implemented detailed cost-cutting
programs, including labor shedding, spinning off non-core businesses and liquidating non-viable
units. By now, out of around 1,200 enterprises, the Privatization Agency has overseen
divestiture of nearly 900 enterprises, 45 of them large, 141 medium and the rest small units.
14.  In banking, a major effort was mounted to restructure Stopanska Banka, the chronically
distressed dominant bank. The restructuring consisted of three sets of measures: first, financial
restructuring to clean the bank of problem accounts and restore its liquidity; second, break-up
into smaller banks, and third, ongoing change of ownership and management through
privatization.
15.   The reform of the social safety net, aims to:  facilitate labor adjustment through
appropriate income support and development of active labor market services; restructure
incentives under social assistance programs; and improve the short-and long-term financial
sustainability of social insurance. To facilitate labor adjustment, the relevant regulations have
4/    The PFP was circulated to the Board (SecM97-180) for information on March 12, 1997.



5
been altered to reduce advance notification of termination to one month for individual and small-
scale layoffs, and to three months for large-scale layoffs. To ease the uncertainty associated
with layoffs, the Government has set up a fund for labor adjustment services, including
counseling, placement, small business development and retraining.
16.   The Government is also moving to put in place the legislative and regulatory framework
to ensure the proper functioning of a market economy. To that end, Parliament has approved
legislation governing securities, concessions, banks and savings institutions, accounting and
financial standards, labor relations, foreign investment, and Customs. In addition, new
Commercial and Bankruptcy codes have been prepared, laws on the Governance and on the Sales
of Public Enterprises passed, and a Law on Denationalization and Restitution has been drafted.
17.   Externally, the Government was forced to suspend debt servicing soon after independence
because of its precarious balance of payments and reserves positions, and because of the
difficulties in allocating external liabilities of former Yugoslavia among the individual republics.
Subsequently, the country made remarkable progress towards normalizing relations with its
creditors (see External Debt and Creditworthiness below) in efforts to secure development
finance for the medium term.
Medium-term Policies
18.   The external environment for the country has improved lately with the lifting of trade and
transit sanctions to the north and the reopening of access to southern trans-shipment route
through Greece. These circumstances are expected to help the country attain its principal
medium-term macroeconomic objectives, which are to: (a) consolidate the progress made in
lowering inflation; and (b) promote economic recovery. These objectives form the centerpiece
of the country's medium-term PFP referred to in paragraph 10 above.
19.   To consolidate low inflation, monetary and fiscal policies will reinforce each other in the
program to be supported with ESAF resources. The monetary authorities will maintain a
cautious stance in setting targets for reserve money growth and the level of net foreign assets,
and in determining the discount rate. The country's bank rehabilitation program, supported by
FESAC (see Annex 3), is to be completed, thereby reducing pressure for special liquidity
credits.  The authorities also intend to develop market-based instruments of monetary
management, as for example, making greater use of auctions for NBM bills and deposits, and
fostering the nascent interbank market. As such instruments take hold, the authorities would
phase out direct controls like credit ceilings on banks and marginal reserve requirements on
liquid banks.
20.   Medium-term fiscal policy is to focus on continued deficit reduction. However, this is
going to be a major challenge since, at over 40 percent of GDP, the tax burden is already too
high and should not be raised further. At the same time, there will be pressing expenditure
needs to meet the costs associated with economic restructuring; e.g., the servicing of the large
debt amassed through the assumption of the obligations of banks and socially-owned enterprises,



6
and the provision of transfer payments (severance pay,social assistance and unemployment
benefits). In view of the high tax burden, revenue policy will emphasize broadening the tax base
by eliminating the multitude of exemptions (e.g. in sales and import taxes). Furthermore, the
effective tax base will be broadened by strengthening tax compliance in the growing private
sector. With a broader tax base, income and social security tax rates could be lowered. Plans
are also under way to replace the existing three-tier sales tax with a single-rate VAT.
21.   General government5 expenditure policy will aim to reduce and eventually eliminate
agricultural subsidies (about 2 percent of expenditures in 1995 and 1996), and contain the growth
of spending on public wages (24 percent of expenditures in 1995 and 1996). While a number
of measures have been taken to-date to restrain social spending (e.g., increases in retirement
age, cuts in child and vacation allowances), these expenditures still take up very substantial
amount of resources. In 1996, social welfare and social security expenditures constituted 47
percent of general government expenditures and equalled an estimated 21 percent of GDP. The
government believes there is scope for restraining such spending further. To that end, it will
examine and implement a number of options in the context of the prospective ESAF and a
planned FY98 IDA operation for social sector adjustment. These options include: reducing the
duration of cash benefits to the unemployed (currently 24 months), lowering public pensions
(currently, the ratio of average pensions to wages is 62 percent), and reducing employment and
introducing user charges in health care. With such measures, it should be possible to mobilize
financial resources for essential public infrastructure to support economic recovery.
22.   Economic recovery will be underpinned by: (a) maintenance--under the prospective
ESAF--of market arrangements already in place for ensuring a competitive exchange rate for the
denar; (b) completion of ongoing structural reforms in the enterprise, financial and social sectors
(Annex 3); and (c) new structural adjustment measures aimed at strengthening trade and
agriculture, and addressing deeper social sector reforms. Reforms in all these areas are essential
for the country's small economy, with limited financial resources, to integrate into the regional
and world markets, and to achieve strong and sustained growth.
23.   The major impetus to growth over the medium term is likely to come from the private
sector in agriculture, manufacturing, trade and transportation. While still small, the private
sector has been vibrant lately, accounting, according to official data, for about 20 percent of
GDP in 1995 (up from 12 percent in 1990) and 20 percent of formal employment in 1994 (up
from 10 percent in 1990). Private sector growth is being further facilitated by a number of
recent initiatives to strengthen the incentive, legal and regulatory frameworks pertaining to
private enterprise. Such initiatives include ongoing reviews of the legal apparatus for enforcing
commercial contracts and regulations concerning foreign direct and portfolio investment.
5/    Includes central government and the extrabudgetary funds, notably those for pensions, health care, and
unemployment benefits.



7
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
24.   The structural reforms and the stabilization measures outlined above are expected to
initiate a sustainable economic recovery. From a low base reached after five years of decline,
GDP is estimated to have grown about one to two percent in 1996; it could accelerate to around
five percent per year in 1997-2001. The growth of consumption, however, should remain below
that of domestic income in order to raise domestic savings to finance critical investments and
meet projected debt service payments. Such a scenario is depicted in Table 2 below.
Table 2: PROJECTED MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
(Percentages)
1997   1998   1999   2000  2001
Growth Rates
Real GDP                  5.0    5.3    5.3    5.0   5.0
Real Consumption per capita   0.8    1.6    2.0    2.5   3.4
Export Volume, GNFS      12.8    9.6   10.6    8.2   7.6
Import Volume, GNFS       0.6    5.5    4.5    5.4   5.8
GDP Deflator              1.6    3.0    3.0    3.0   3.0
Ratios to GDP
Gross Domestic Investment    18.0   19.5   19.7   20.3  20.6
Fiscal Balance             1.5    0      0       0.1   0.2
External Current Balance  -9.5   -8.3   -6.2   -5.4  -4.9
(excluding foreign grants)
25.   As for export prospects for the medium term, there seems to be potential in the country
for horticulture, lamb and livestock by-products (leather and leather goods), wood products,
minerals, and textiles, the last three recently investigated by prospective foreign private
investors. Indeed, over the past year, strong volume growths have been recorded in exports of
wine, fruit and vegetables, meat and shoes. Before the break-up of the SFRY, firms in the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia were well-known for design, engineering and
construction services abroad, especially in north Africa and the Middle East. These firms still
exist and, under peaceful conditions, could compete for reconstruction and development works
in central Europe and Asia. Under more settled conditions, there is scope also for employment
and earnings from tourism as, prior to the dissolution of the old Federation, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia typically received 14 million transit tourists a year, accounting for eight
to ten percent of the country's annual earnings from exports of goods and nonfactor services.
26.   While export growth could improve the balance of payments in the medium term, the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia will still need considerable recourse to external capital



8
over the next several years.  First, it will take time for the export sector to raise its
competitiveness and gain acceptance in new markets. Also, the outbreak of foot and mouth
disease in mid-1996 has led to some loss of income from meat exports; it will take a few years
to overcome this setback. Second, imports, compressed in the recent past, will need to grow
sufficiently at the outset not only to satisfy consumer requirements, but also to provide inputs,
especially for export production. Third, interest payments on the stock of outstanding debt have
to be met from current earnings. Table 3 presents the extemal financing plan, envisaging steady
improvements in the current account of the balance of payments and inflow of private foreign
investment over the medium term.
Table 3: PROJECTED FINANCING PLAN, 1997-2001
(US$ million, at current prices)
1997    1998    1999   2000   2001
Financing Required                 582    449    426    436    437
Current A/C Deficit, exc. Grants  367    348    281    265    258
Debt Amortization                 180     56      70      85     85
Increase in Reserves              35      45      75      86     94
Financing Identified               527    402    380    396    402
Direct Foreign Investment         35      45      60      75     90
Official Grants                   40      40      40      40     30
Official MLT Loans, of which:    126    139    104        77     66
World Bank                      51      77     43      47      37
IMF                             26      26     26       0       0
EBRD                            47      25      25     20      20
Short-term & Private Capital     216     178    176    204    216
Debt Rescheduled                  110      0       0       0      0
Residual Financing Gap              55     47      46      40      35
27.   Pledges of US$55 million made by the European Union (EU) and bilateral donors at the
Joint G-24 and Consultative Group (CG) meeting in February 1997 would cover the estimated
1997 residual financing gap. With similar assistance, it would be possible also to cover the
residual gaps shown for the other years. The financing of the medium-term reform program will
be reviewed periodically under the ESAF.
E:xternal Debt and Creditworthiness
28.   The country's external debt at the end of 1996 was around US$1,400 million. Of this,
about US$1,175 million constituted medium- and long-term (MLT) debt, and the rest, short-term
obligations. About 37 percent of MLT debt is held by official multilateral creditors, 34 percent
by official bilateral creditors, and the remaining 29 percent by commercial creditors. Relative
to the country's income and exports, the stock of debt at the end of 1996 was equivalent to



9
about 40 percent of estimated GDP and about 120 percent of exports of goods and services. By
these indicators, the country is only moderately indebted and, in view of the understandings
reached to-date with various creditors, should be in good standing to seek external financing for
viable policies and projects over the medium term.
29.   The Government reached agreement with Paris Club creditors in July 1995 on a
rescheduling of about US$340 million in arrears and debt service falling due through the end of
June 1996. In May 1996, the Government completed agreements to deal with about US$34
million in arrears to the Council of Europe Social Development Fund and the EUROFIMA.
Plans are well advanced to settle arrears of around US$30 million now owed to the European
Investment Bank (EIB). Since October 1995, the country has been making current debt service
payments to the EIB. Most recently, in March 1997, the country reached agreement with the
International Coordinating Committee (ICC) of commercial bank creditors to clear arrears and
reschedule outstanding obligations to commercial banks.
30.   Thus the financial standing of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has improved
in the last two years as Government moved decisively to normalize relations with external
creditors. In addition, the recent easing of regional tensions provides opportunities for renewed
growth of trade and transport in the area. Still, pending more lasting stability, the external
environment affecting the country remains fragile for the near term and hence must constrain
the country's creditworthiness. This is tempered, however, by the country's distinct progress
thus far in stabilization; its relatively low debt overhang; its solid agenda for structural reforms;
and its strong human capital base.
31.   On balance, it would appear that, provided its external environment does not deteriorate
and its policy performance is sustained, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's medium-
term solvency position should be sound, making it creditworthy for IBRD financing blended with
IDA resources. But, as the current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) statement maintains, the
viability of Bank lending envisaged for the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia would be
contingent upon availability of external finance from other donors and creditors as well. The
first Joint G-24 and CG meeting convened in February this year under EU-Bank partnership
succeeded in mobilizing the country's external financing requirements for 1997. The plan shown
in Table 3 subsumes, reasonably, that similar efforts would ensure availability of external
finance in the medium term from multiple sources. The resulting debt and exposure indicators
are shown in Table 4 below.



10
Table 4: PROJECTED EXPOSURE INDICATORS, 1997-2001
1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
Debt Outstanding (US$ Mn)               1522    1609    1678    1726    1743
Debt Service Due (US$ Mn)                144      135      148      170     186
Debt Indicators (%)
TDO/GDP /a                          39.4    38.4    36.9    35.1    32.8
TDO/XGS /b                         116.4   111.3   103.5    96.4    88.5
TDS/XGS /c                          11.0      9.3      9.1      9.5     9.5
World Bank Exposure Indicators (%)
Bank DS/TDS /d                       9.8     10.4    10.1       9.8    10.6
Bank DS/XGS                          1.1      1.1      0.9      0.9     1.0
Preferred Crdtr DS/TDS (96)            46.2    34.2    43.3    44.8    40.3
Memorandum items:
GDP (US$ million)                       3865    4192    4547    4918    5318
XGS (US$ million)                       1308    1446    1621    1791    1970
/a TDO denotes Total Debt Outstanding and includes estimated short-term debt; /b XGS
denotes exports of goods and services; /c TDS denotes total debt service; /d DS denotes
debt service.
32.    The debt and exposure indicators show the economy could sustain the external debt flows
projected for the medium term. The debt:GDP ratio would be under 40 percent, and the debt
service ratio, taking into account all reschedulings, would be between 10 percent and 15 percent.
In this scenario, the Bank's share in the country's projected debt service payments is expected
to remain within the prescribed guideline. The share of the country's export earnings devoted
to servicing Bank debt is also expected to remain well within the prescribed guideline. The
composition of the country's debt stock is projected to change, with the share of preferred
creditors in the total debt stock rising from 30 percent in 1996 to 39 percent in the year 2001.6
The share of debt service devoted to preferred creditors is projected at between 40 and 45
percent over the medium term.
Downside Risks
33.    The scenario outlined above is subject to risks of domestic policy slippage as well as
external financing shortfalls. Following five years of declining output and employment, there
6/     Bilateral Paris Club creditors, having provided substantial rescheduling in July 1995, are not assumed to make
significant net new disbursements of loans. Commercial creditors too are not assumed to increase their exposure in the next
few years pending implementation of the recent rescheduling agreement. Thus, for the medium term, net disbursements
from loans are projected to come largely from multilateral sources, thereby increasing the relative exposure of preferred
creditors. Beyond 2000, however, the exposure of preferred creditors is projected to decline as the current account of the
BOP continues to improve and repayments of the IBRD, IMP and EBRD loans made during 1994-95 commence.



11
are strong social pressures in the country that could tempt Government to relax monetary and
fiscal policies with a view to jump-starting the economy and/or restoring real wages to pre-1994
levels. There are pressures also--e.g., from currently protected agricultural and manufacturing
enterprises--to slow down the pace and limit the scope of structural reforms.
34.   An undue relaxation of the monetary and fiscal stance could rekindle inflation which, in
turn, would erode incentives for longer-term export- and growth-related investments. Similarly,
failure to remove structural deficiencies in the country's key trade and agricultural sectors
described in the following sections would perpetuate distorted price signals and undermine
prospects for efficient private sector-led economic recovery and growth. In the event that export
volume growth is, say, half the projected rate (Table 2), the country would be forced quickly
to compress imports and thereby lower the rate of economic growth, to around only 2 percent
per year on average.
35.   The international community provided significant financial support in 1994-96 in the form
of new money and debt rescheduling on favorable terms. Such support has encouraged the
country to implement difficult reforms. The reform agenda, however, is by no means
completed. Yet there is a risk that concessional finance to the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia may be reduced prematurely in an atmosphere of tight aid budgets coinciding with
greater need for reconstruction and development finance in the region. If this risk materializes
the country would be seriously constrained in its transition process as, unable yet to borrow fully
at commercial terms, it would be compelled to cut imports and investment, and delay the long-
sought economic recovery.
m. TRADE POLICIES AND ISSUES
Background
36.   The Government has been applying far-reaching stabilization and structural reform
measures to date at a time of great disruptions in the country's traditional trading environment.
Producers that formerly operated in a domestic and largely protected market of over 22 million
people in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY) now have a domestic market of
only two million people. For such a small country trade is essential and producers, having lost
the traditional markets with the break up of the SFRY, must find new markets.  The
circumstances of doing this have been extremely difficult.
37.   Blockades in the south, the loss of key land routes to Europe and costly delays and
security problems when trading through Albania and Bulgaria have greatly compounded the
difficulties of establishing new markets. Moreover, traditional markets for construction services
and heavy machinery in the Middle East and in Africa have been lost or reduced due to political
and economic instability in many countries in these regions. Finally, potential new markets in
Europe and the U.S., particularly for garments and textiles, are restricted by import quotas, and
some quota markets which were held through the SFRY have been lost or cut back in the
allocation to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.



12
38.    On top of the external obstacles, the trade sector has had to contend with barriers and
supporting administrative arrangements created by domestic policy. The government had indeed
discarded much of the complex trading system of the past which, in addition to tariffs, involved
extensive  quantitative  restrictions  and  barter  arrangements.   Even  so, the  trade  policy
environment that remained until very recently impeded the adjustments in investments,
production and exchange that the country wished to make to become an open trading nation.
The Trade Regime
39.    On first impression the basic tariff which was in place in the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia till July 1996 appeared quite liberal. With rates ranging from zero to 25 percent
plus a small documentation fee and relatively small import taxes, and import and export quantity
controls applying to less than five percent of goods, the country seemed a very open economy.
Taken altogether, however, the entire set of trade instruments in place and administratively
determined exemptions to these instruments, caused significant discrimination among production
activities. Table 5 below summarizes the trade regime in place up to the end of July 1996, and
now undergoing reforms described in Section VI of this report.
Table 5: SUMMARY OF TRADE INTERVENTIONS IN THE
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
Trade Incentives                Description                                    Comment
Tariff                   Essentially the tariff inherited from   (a) The basic tariff was relatively simple with a top rate of
the SFRY--an escalating tariff    25 percent; (b) there were at least 18 different tariff rates;
ranging from 0 to 25 percent.    (c) the escalating nature meant high effective protection to
final goods; (d) there were some splits at the levels of
aggregation leading to administrative difficulties over
classification; (e) small cars drew a duty of 5 percent; large
cars, 55 percent.
Import taxes             Two import taxes of 7.5 percent of  The implications for resources allocation of these taxes were
cif value were applied. Some      unclear. If they applied to all imports, the overall tax on
products were exempt-computers   trade would be increased while the discrimination across
and machinery not produced in    import competing activities would be lessened. On balance
Macedonia, oil, milk and dairy    because of the legislated and administered exemptions (see
products. Some goods paid 2       later discussion), the existence of these two duties gave rise
percent plus 2 percent; for      to an incentive structure which discouraged efficient
example, pharmaceutical.          activities.
Sales tax                Tax of 25 percent applies to most   Because the sales tax applies to imports and domestically
goods and at lower rates on some    produced goods, there should be no impact on protective
goods whether domestically        levels. However, the relatively high rate may give rise to
produced or imported.             smuggling, under-invoicing and the emergence of a "gray"
economy.
(CONTINUED)



13
Trade Incentives                Description                                   Comment
Import quotas, bans and   Import quotas were set for some  (a) Quotas were determined with a view to balancing
licenses                 100 goods ranging from live      consumer requirements with protection "needs"; they
poultry, confectionery, wine and    involved considerable administrative discretion; (b) some
spirits, tobacco and cigarettes,  quotas were auctioned; (c) most were allocated by
cement, iron and steel products  administrative discretion, involving lost revenue.
and buses. Of the 100 products,
over 30 were actually banned from
import.
Exemptions              Exemptions were provided in       (a) With a tariff of up to 25 percent plus 15 percent import
several different ways: (a) The  taxes, exemptions could be very valuable. (b) Exemptions
Ministry of Foreign Affairs      were usually on a consignment by consignment basis. (c) In
approved exemptions of duty plus   1995, half of all imports were deemed eligible for duty and
import taxes for foreign investors   import tax exemptions. (d) Exemptions were not given if
who guaranteed to reinvest in the   local production capacity in the country would be affected.
country. (b) The Ministry of
Finance could exempt 50 percent
of duty for import of new
equipment whose value exceeded
US$5,000. (c) Spare parts were
duty-exempt.  (d) The Ministry
of Economy determined
exemptions of import taxes. (e)
All three Ministries consulted
relevant line Ministries to
recommend exemptions.
(f) Usually, if Finance Ministry
recommended exempting duty, the
Ministry of Economy would
recommend exempting import tax.
Export quotas, bans and   Some 90 goods are under export   (a) Export approvals are determined administratively by the
licenses                restriction or ban. Goods include   Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade. (b) There are no
animals, grains, flours, vegetable   auctions of export quotas. (c) Scrap iron and scrap aluminum
oils, fuels, hides, wool, aluminum    controls provide assistance (and revenue) to steel and
scrap. This list does not include    aluminum production. (d) Controls on hides assist leather
export controls applied by       and manufacturers of garments and footwear.
destination countries; for example,
garments and textiles.
Compensation or         Under some circumstances,         (a) In some cases, approval could be based on the need to
approval of barter trade   exporters of a particular good  have a basis for value for duty on barter goods. (b) In other
could arrange an equivalent      cases the right to import could be valuable, e.g., for banana
purchase of another quota import   imports, and be similar to an export subsidy.
good, e.g., bananas.
Export incentives       Export incentives (or stimulations)   When quotas apply, on domestic and export markets, export
apply in the cases of lamb, veal,   stimulations are direct transfer with no output effects.
fruit and vegetables.
40.    As seen above, until most recently, a complex set of trade barriers were applied in the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. That exemptions were possible and, indeed, widely



14
applied, did not make the trade regime rational in effect. On the contrary, as elaborated later,
exemptions added to the degree of discrimination and protection inherent in the framework of
trade barriers. The trade controls, moreover, were applied across many agencies; as a result,
it was difficult to fully appreciate the extent to which trade was impeded. The fragmented
institutional setting and information available made it difficult to fully appreciate the economy-
wide effects of the trade regime. Taken together, the interventions were significant and hurt
economic performance, including deferring new investment, as indicated in the assessment which
follows.
Assessment of the Trade Regime
41.   A major concern with the country's trade policy was the use of the wide range of
instruments to maintain the position of established industries and firms, the very entities which
had to be changed if the country were to grow and prosper. In agriculture, for example,
domestic producers are still granted guaranteed output prices (see table 6 below) for wheat, and
cheaper imports are prevented by the imposition of a surcharge on wheat, in addition to its basic
tariff. Similar additional charges, over and above the tariff, are imposed on edible oils, sugar,
milk and cheese, providing a protective shield to producers and processors who also receive
price support direct from the budget. The cost of such protection (equivalent to 3 percent of
GSP in 1994) is borne by consumers at large. Import and export quotas (see paragraphs 44 and
45), covering under five percent of items traded and around 30 percent of domestic production,
maintained the position of existing industries, made it more costly to establish new ones and
imposed additional implicit costs on the economy.
42.   The economy suffered also from the particular design of the instruments in place. For
instance, the tariff structure escalating from low rates on raw materials to high rates on final
goods gave rise to different treatment of production activities and hence on incentives for
allocation of resources. The escalating structure also hurt exports. This is because exporters
received little or no protection on output, yet if they used domestically produced inputs which
were protected, they received a negative effective rate of protection. The tariff structure was
also complex: many different rates had emerged and differential treatment of like items provided
incentives for importers to describe goods to meet the lower duty classification which in turn
drew on administrative time and could lead to arbitrary decisions by Customs.
43.   Compounding the difficulties of the tariff was the administration of the turnover or sales
tax, levied at 25 percent on locally produced goods and on imports. For imports, the sales tax
is levied on the price inclusive of duties and other import taxes and accordingly is intended to
be neutral with respect to protection. However, there is some discretion as to whether the sales
tax is paid at point of import or within 45 days of import. Imports exempted from duties have
their sales taxes levied on a smaller base. For imports that are not exempted from duties, it
would appear that the extent of duties plus sales tax are significant enough to encourage
importers to go some length to avoid paying. To the extent that the levying of the sales tax is
not neutral, it widens disparities in effective rates of protection and adds to the unpredictability
of protection.



15
44.   Although regarded as relatively unimportant by officials, the list of about 100 items
subject to import quotas was restrictive and added to the disparities in rates of protection. Quotas
were set by an interministerial committee and approved by the government. It seems that the
overriding concern was to balance the protective needs of industry against the consumption needs
of consumers. Some quota items were at broad levels of aggregation--for example, rice, tobacco,
iron rods, aluminum rods, buses and so forth. In the second quarter of 1995, there were 30
goods subject to an import ban. In practice, some bans could be relaxed by approvals, case by
case.  But such selective approach was not transparent, favored established firms and
discriminated against new entrants, and caused business people and government officials to use
up valuable professional time seeking and considering special treatment. For those goods with
a positive (non-zero) import quota, allocation in some cases was by auction. However, auction
revenue was small, reflecting the limited number of goods being auctioned--mainly confectionery
and liquor.
45.   Export quotas set by the government applied to about 90 goods, including animals,
grains, flours, vegetable oils, fuels, hides, wool, aluminum scrap. Export entitlements were
allocated administratively. These export controls had significant adverse effects, including lost
export opportunities, absorption of administrative time, the application of high implicit taxes on
producers of the goods banned from export and implicit subsidies for the users of those goods.
46.   While declining in importance in the country's international trade, the barter transactions
that did remain were inherently inefficient, extended the protective effect of quotas and provided
uneven and non-transparent incentives for export and imports. In particular, the linkage between
export of locally produced fruit and vegetables and entitlements to import specified quantities
of tropical fruit increased prices to consumers and was tantamount to subsidizing the exporters
of local fruit.
47.   One reason traders may wish to engage in barter might be to avoid duties and taxes,
including sales taxes. If so, it is important that Customs have a capacity to conduct proper
valuation of goods. This capacity would be needed regardless of whether there are barter
transactions or not.
48.   While the system of duties, import taxes, sales tax and import and export quotas was
comprehensive enough to impede trade, perhaps a more serious issue was that, because of the
system of exemptions, the taxation of international trade was often not what it seemed.
Importers applying for exemptions frequently paid a lower rate of duty and sometimes no duty
at all. Such exemptions had the potential to substantially influence effective rates of protection.
The exemptions of concem were not those available in most countries--for example, personal
goods of retuming residents, goods for humanitarian purposes and the like. Rather, the
exemptions of concern here were those on goods introduced in the normal course of trade and
which were settled by consensus between administrators and the domestic industry or enterprises
involved.



16
49.   The exemption system resulted in revenue foregone and emphasized protection of
established industry. It therefore inhibited the adjustment that needed to occur in the country.
This is so because the criterion common to most decisions about exemptions concerned the
presence of a local production capacity: exemptions were not given if local production capacity
in the country would be affected. The system of exemptions also raised the administrative
burden for the Customs Department and, finally, trade could not expand in a system where the
question of the tariffs and taxes to apply for each import consignment was settled in a protracted
administrative manner.
50.   The foregoing discussion indicates that, through July 1996, the country had a relatively
complex system of trade interventions requiring considerable administrative discretion to
implement. Although any one measure by itself did not appear excessive, taken together and
considering the criteria for granting of exemptions and rates, there was considerable scope for
manipulating interventions to provide high protection to some industries and, with that, high
taxes on other industries. Moreover, there was a distinct bias toward protecting existing
activities in manufacturing and agriculture.
IV. AGRICULTURAL PRICING AND MARKETING
Background
51.   Agriculture in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has long been an important
sector which has received substantial support from the Government. The agricultural sector:
(a)   contributes nearly 15 percent of total GSP (agricultural value-
added was MDen 21, 674 million in 1995, or around $570
million);
(b)   has been relatively more buoyant than the rest of the economy during
transition (output in agriculture falling by 3 percent per annum since 1990,
compared to a drop of more than 10 percent per annum in the economy
as a whole);
(c)   directly employs around 36,000 workers in the formal sector (a little over
9 percent of total formal employment), and probably upwards of 100,000
jobs not captured in the official employment statistics.
52.  It is important to note that, in contrast to many other sectors of the economy, the
agricultural sector already has a very strong private sector presence. The private sector in
agriculture:
(a)   owns nearly 50 percent of all agricultural land;
(b)   owns 75 percent of arable land;



17
(c)     consists of 177,000 small farms providing employment above that
captured in the official statistics;
(d)     accounts for at least two-thirds of the value of agricultural output.
Even with this strong private sector presence, the 200 or so socially-owned business units (agro-
kombinats and cooperatives) play an important role as suppliers of farm inputs and buyers of
agricultural commodities for processing (see paragraph 61, 64 below).
The Tools of Government Intervention
53.    Government support for the agricultural sector largely translated into support for the
agro-kombinats, which continue to represent an important industrial lobby group with influence
in the Parliament and in the Government. A complex web of measures was established over
time which shielded from competition the sector as a whole and the agro-kombinats in particular.
Protective trade policy measures prevent import competition and allow domestic price support
policies to be maintained (see paragraph 41 above). The direct tools of agricultural policy
interventions and their recent levels are summarized in Table 6.
Table 6: SUMMARY OF AGRICULTURAL POLICY INTERVENTIONS IN THE
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
A2ricultural
Intervention                 Descridtion                                    Comment
Directed credits        Loans from private banks to agro-   The widespread use of directed credits in the economy as a
(loan rediscount)       kombinats, at below market rates,   whole was inflationary and distorted the financial markets,
at the instruction of the        and was abandoned by the Government in 1995. Prior to
Govemment (acting through the    that, these had been a key intervention and in 1994,
NBM).                            amounted to around MDen 600 million (approximately
US$14 million) in agriculture.
Credit rebates          A 15 percent rebate on interest   Wheat and tobacco producers were the major beneficiaries
paid on loans held by agro-      and in 1994 the budget expenditure was MDen 792 million
kombinats and eligible private   (US$18.3 million). Govemment budget pressure in mid-
farmers in connection with wheat,   1995 led to a sharp curtailment of the scheme and outtum l
corn, tobacco and other scheduled   expenditure was limited to only MDen 149 milion (US$4
crops.                           million) through 1995.
Seed rebates            A 20 percent rebate on the market   Although intended to encourage farmers to use new and/or
price of the seed, typically paid  higher quality crop varieties, in practice this scheme is
directly to the seed distributor.  sustaining the research institutes and some agro-kombinats
who are the major seed producers. The allocation in the
1996 Budget was MDen 210 million (US$5.5 million), an
increase of 18 percent over the 1995 budget outturn estimate.
(CONTINUED)



18
Agricultural                  Description                                    Comment
Intervention
Guaranteed output prices  Set with reference to the costs of    The number of products with guaranteed prices fell from 12
production of the major agro-     in 1992 to 4 in 1996: wheat, tobacco,sunflowerseed and
kombinats.                        sugarbeet. The guaranteed price for wheat in 1996 was 10
denars per kg (about US$250/MT).
Price premia             Paid directly to agro-kombinat    In 1994 the price premia cost MDen 761 million (US$17.6
producers, and eligible private   million), falling slightly to MDen 740 million (a rise in
farmers applying through them, at   dollar terms to US$19.6 million) in 1995. The scheme was
a rate of 15 to 20 percent over the  reduced in 1996 with the exclusion of wheat from eligible
"market" price on wheat,          products (the premium on wheat had accounted for nearly
sugarbeet, sunflower, other      two-thirds of expenditure). Planned expenditure in 1996 was
oilseeds and milk (MDen 3/1).     MDen 415 million (US$10.9 million).
Export subsidies         Paid at the rate of 4 percent of  The 1996 budget was about MDen 150 million (US$3.7
export price on lamb, meat, grapes  million).
and wine, and 3.2 percent on fruits
and vegetables
Strategic Reserves       Government purchase and storage   In agricultural products, the Agency for Strategic Reserves'
of selected "strategic" products to   main interventions are in wheat (where its purchases meet
supply the population in times of    obligations to defend the guaranteed output price) and
emergency. It currently stocks    sunflower oil. Its operations vary from year to year. In
food , industrial products including   1995 and 1996 budget estimates the Agency had expenditure
petroleum, pharmeceuticals and    allocations of around MDen 1.3 billion ($35 million) each
other items including crop        year. It is likely that between 25-40 percent of this total has
protection products.              been, and will continue to be allocated to wheat purchases.
This means that the Agency probably buys between one
quarter and one third of domestic wheat production each
year. Its role in the domestic sunflower market is likely to
be equally as important.
The Impact of Intervention
54.    As the summary table below indicates, in recent years the peak of direct financial support
(through the budget and directed credits) for the sector occurred in 1994. In that year the
identified financial subsidies (not including the impact of guaranteed output prices nor the
operations of the Strategic Reserves) amounted to MDen 2,714 million (around US$63 million).
This was equivalent to 7.5 percent of central government current expenditure, and nearly 10
percent of agricultural GSP. Furthermore, the provision of these subsidies appeared to be almost
the raison d'etre of the Ministry of Agriculture: the subsidies it administered directly accounted
for over 80 percent of its annual budget.



19
Table 7: BUDGET SUPPORT FOR AGRICULTURE
(MDen million)
Intervention            1994     1995    1996
Credit rebate                      792       149       0
Price premium                       761      740     415
Seed rebate                        263       178     210
Export subsidy                      300      363     385
Sub-total: Direct Support from Budget    2,116    1,430    1,010
Directed Credit                     598       0        0
J Total: Direct Financial Support  2,714    1,430    1,010
55.   These tools of intervention, accompanied by trade protection, distort the operation of the
agricultural sector. The Government is strongly influencing, through the prices it sets or
influences, the mix of crops grown in the country, and this is done in the absence of any
assessment of the comparative advantage the country may have in producing these commodities.
The intervention has led to two other clear consequences. The first is that the agro-kombinats
have been the major beneficiaries of the support. For instance, they received about two-thirds
of key price premia support in 1995. The bulk of the credit rebate also went to the agro-
kombinats. Furthermore, the small private farmer typically received no benefit from guaranteed
output prices and other interventions since most of smalUholder produce was not marketed. The
upshot is that this budget support sustains the agro-kombinats' position in the marketplace and
mutes the development of competition from the private sector.
56.   The second consequence is that budgetary and trade measures sustain high-cost production
and deliver key food products at prices well above international levels. For example, in 1994
the price of domestic wheat was over twice the price of the competing border price. A margin
of about 66 percent obtained for raw sugar; 77 percent for milk; and over 150 percent for
cheese. The producer subsidy equivalent (PSE), which reflects the support given to producers
from budgetary sources and from inflated prices sustained by trade protection, amounted to at
least MDen 4,300 million (US$100 million) in 1994. This was equivalent to 15 percent of
agricultural GSP and nearly 3 percent of total GSP. Domestic taxpayers and consumers bore
this burden, and for wheat and milk alone--staples in the country--the annual cost represented
around MDen 8,400, a little more than the average worker's monthly salary, for each non-
agricultural household.
57.   The Government has recognized the budgetary costs and the deleterious impact of these
interventions. More progress remains to occur on reducing protective trade measures, but direct
financial interventions in agriculture have been reduced (see Tables 6 and 7). Explicit financial
support to the sector is only one-third what it was in 1994; in 1996 the expenditure accounted
for around 2 percent of central government current spending, compared to 7.5 percent in 1994,



20
and a little under 3 percent of agricultural GSP as compared to 10 percent in 1994. These steps
are essential to allow the price mechanism to influence producers' and consumers' use of
resources, and to increase competitive forces in the marketplace. These reforms need to go
further to phase out subsidies and other distortionary interventions in agriculture within the next
three years. Such measures are important if the newly privatized agro-kombinats and other
private farmers are to have the best opportunity to respond to market forces and increase
competitiveness and profitability over the medium term.
V. EXTENDING THE PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM
Background
58.   As the centerpiece of its program to transform the economy from a socialist to a market
orientation, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia launched a wide-reaching program for
privatization after Parliament adopted the Law for Transformation of Enterprises with Social
Capital (the "mainstream" Privatization Law) on June 14, 1993. To date, agriculture has been
excluded from the mainstream program (more below), the focus being on the core industrial
sectors of the economy.
59.   Under the 1993 Privatization Law (the salient features of which are summarized in Annex
3), 1,217 industrial and commercial enterprises, with about 230,000 employees and 50 percent
of the enterprise sector's total assets, were identified for divestiture. Supporting that divestiture
program, the IDA-financed FESAC included a target for privatization to be completed (or
liquidation proceedings initiated) for nearly 800 of these enterprises. This target has been met
and the second and final tranche release of the FESAC was approved by the Board on September
19, 1996. The measures which have been taken under the FESAC-supported program are
summarized for information in Annex 3.
60.  In extending the privatization program, the proposed SAL would support mainly the
divestiture of eligible agro-enterprises identified under the new Agricultural Privatization Law.
At the same time, the SAL will support completion of: (i) the original mandate of the
mainstream Privatization Law; that is, target the remaining 400 or so industrial and commercial
enterprises for privatization (or liquidation as appropriate); and (ii) the full privatization (or
liquidation) of any of the large, loss-making enterprises which were in the Special Restructuring
Program and which currently remain majority state or socially-owned.
Privatization in Agriculture
61.   Privatization in agriculture is certainly the most important challenge in extending
enterprise reform beyond the boundaries so far tackled. Latest estimates (see Annex 4) suggest



21
that there are at least 214 agro-kombinats7. Between them they employ over 26,000 workers,
accounting for 72 percent of formal employment in the sector. The average size of the agro-
kombinats, at 123 employees each, would put them in the "medium" sized category as defined
under the mainstream privatization program.
62.   The agro-kombinats are socially-owned enterprises, which was the common form of
business organization in the former Yugoslavia, in which assets are owned by society at large,
with management selected by workers councils. The agricultural land used by the agro-
kombinats, however, is owned by the state, not by the enterprise, and its use has been granted
to them by tradition rather than under a formal lease arrangement. Over half the agro-kombinats
(108 in total) are "small", having less than 50 employees and farm areas below 250 hectares.
These small enterprises are typically involved in primary production (field crops, or animal/dairy
products), or a discrete processing activity, and are structured as a single business unit. In such
small business units management and employees work closely together, and could be expected
to emerge as the potential new owners of the enterprise unit when privatized.
63.   At the other end of the spectrum, the 13 largest agro-kombinats have an average size of
1,050 workers, between them accounting for 13,692 employees, or 52 percent of all jobs in the
agro-kombinats. Characteristically, these are vertically integrated enterprises operating from
primary production through to retail sales. They contain several business units (between 5 and
15) which are clearly defined, operate with a degree of independence, and many of which do
not directly farm land. These units cover operations such as field crops (most importantly
wheat, sugarbeet), animal farming, milling, food processing and canning, distribution, winery,
retail outlets, and hotels. The large agro-kombinats have farm sizes greater than 2,500 hectares.
64.   The large agro-kombinats are important to their local economies, as major employers,
food suppliers and purchasers/distributors of private farmer output. While there are no legislated
monopolies in domestic or international marketing of agricultural products, the agro-kombinats
as a whole have been the main source of supply of inputs to the sector, and dominated the
processing and marketing of agricultural products. Private farmers were largely locked into
supplying their produce to the local agro-kombinat (often in return for other inputs and access
to Government subsidy payments), in the absence of independent marketing arrangements. This
situation reinforced the position of the agro-kombinats, as shown in Government estimates which
reveal that, amongst key products, the agro-kombinats account for 70 percent of marketed
surplus of wheat, 65 percent of sugar beet and sunflower seeds, and 50 percent of grapes. There
is only one agro-kombinat which processes sunflower seeds and only one which processes sugar
beet.. Even in the tobacco sector, where the private sector accounts for the majority of the
annual crop, output was channelled through three agro-kombinat processing factories.
7/ this total includes 163 socially owned agro-enterprises, and a further 51 enterprises recorded as cooperatives. In
practical terms the agro-enterprises and the cooperatives operate in the same way and are treated the same within the
Agricultural Privatization Law.



22
65.   The other clear contrast between agro-kombinats and private farming is in land-use.
Agro-kombinats' median farm size, on state-owned land, is around 250 hectares (but the average
size is higher since many have far larger plots), over 100 times bigger than the average size of
the farms on private land. Private farmers' land-holdings, together accounting for around 75
percent of the country's arable land, are small and fragmented, which certainly constrains the
use of large-scale modern farming machinery in their operations. But whilst the agro-enterprises
do not have this restriction, the incentive and organizational problems associated with social
ownership have led to poor performance. Net losses amongst the agro-kombinats equalled
US$67 million in 1994, nearly 20 percent of their gross revenue, or 11 percent of agricultural
GSP.
66.   The key issues faced in extending the privatization to agriculture are: (a) putting the
legislative framework in place; (b) delivering adequate institutional capacity to oversee the
process; (c) solving some technical problems in moving enterprises into the private sector; and
(d) coping with the issue of surplus workers.
67.   The main piece of legislation, the Law  for Transformation of Enterprises and
Cooperatives with Social Capital that Manage Agricultural Land (Agricultural Privatization Law)
was adopted by Parliament on April 12, 1996. It subsumes the basic approach of the existing
law for industrial and commercial enterprises (see Annex 3). In essence, this puts the onus on
agro-kombinats to prepare their own privatization plans, with an independent valuation of their
assets (which do not include land), and submit these to the Privatization Agency for ultimate
approval by the Privatization Commission. It is likely that in common with experience to date
in the industrial and commercial sectors, management and/or employee buy-outs (MEBOs) will
be the most prevalent mode of privatization in the agricultural sector. The MEBO option gives
a wide and important constituency the chance literally to buy into privatization, thereby
encouraging the support of key groups for the privatization process. New owners are free to
trade their shares in due course, but the market is very underdeveloped. Steps are being taken,
including the recent establishment of a stock exchange, to facilitate diversification in enterprise
ownership. Furthermore, strategic investment is welcome and permitted under the existing legal
framework. The difficult regional situation, however, and insiders' informational advantages,
suggest that the near-term prospects for strategic investment in agricultural privatization are very
modest.
68.   The Agricultural Privatization Law encourages a good pace of privatization; it allows
small and medium enterprises up to 6 months, and large enterprises up to 12 months, to submit
privatization plans (compared to 12 and 18 months respectively in the existing "mainstream"
law). In the event of an enterprise missing its deadline, the Privatization Agency (PA) will then
initiate its privatization. State-owned agricultural land is to be leased over the short-term to
privatized agro-kombinats and private farmers. Work will continue on the policy to privatize
state-owned agricultural land, but there are many technical, institutional and political issues
which must be addressed before this step can be implemented.



23
69.   Work is already well advanced on a Denationalization (restitution) Law, which had a first
reading in Parliament in April, 1996. This establishes mechanisms whereby private citizens'
rights to land and other assets (agricultural and urban) which were nationalized in the past
without compensation, can be restituted (or compensation provided). Implementation of this law
is scheduled before the Government compiles its measures to further develop land markets. At
present, privately-held agricultural land can be leased and traded, but with some restrictions.
A Law on Land Use is to be formulated which removes such restrictions and sets in place the
mechanisms to implement the full-scale privatization of state-owned agricultural land.
70.   Other elements of the legislative framework which would support privatization in
agriculture include an Anti-monopoly Law now under consideration. This could deal with any
potential problems of monopoly abuse in the agricultural sector (rather than designing more
specific measures within the privatization program). Similarly the implementation of a new
Commercial Code (which was a second tranche FESAC condition) is expected to create more
competitive market conditions in agriculture as in other sectors.
71.   Institutional capacity to oversee the privatization process is spearheaded by the
Privatization Agency (PA), which became operational in November 1993 and has gained
considerable expertise and experience since then. The PA's existing remit and role is being
extended to cover agricultural privatization. The Ministry of Agriculture will assist in advising
on restructuring plans prepared by the large agro-kombinats, and will be responsible for
monitoring developments and providing information on the sector. Technical assistance has
previously been provided to the PA, and further help is being provided to the PA and to agro-
enterprises in defining and implementing privatization plans, including restructuring where
appropriate (see Annex 5).
72.   A technical problem may arise in valuing agro-enterprises slated for privatization. This
arises primarily because agricultural prices, costs and markets in the future are going to be quite
different than those prevailing in recent years. There is a danger that enterprises may be
overvalued, and once the true picture emerges in future years, the owners (probably in many
cases the existing management and employees) will not be able to make the installment payments
becoming due on the enterprise shares. Such an outcome would undermine the credibility of the
privatization process, and lead to enterprise shares coming back, at least temporarily, to the
PA's ownership (in effect almost becoming re-nationalized). The Govemment seeks to
ameliorate this difficulty by making a clear and firm announcement of its policy intentions (for
instance, removing guaranteed prices, cutting subsidies and phasing out trade protection) to all
those involved in privatization. This will be supplemented by issuing technical guidelines
outlining the implications of the new policies for valuations of agro-kombinats. These guidelines
will also be published and provided to licensed valuers in the special issues surrounding agro-
kombinats' valuations.
73.   On the technical problem of restructuring of large agro-kombinats, some progress has
already been made in that the three of the largest agro-kombinats included in the Special
Restructuring Program have recently been broken down into some 27 business units, which are



24
now slated for individual privatization. For the other large agro-kombinats (about 12 of them
with more than 1,000 employees each), the Agricultural Privatization Law mandates that they
prepare restructuring plans, as part of the privatization process, which must be approved by the
Ministry of Agriculture and the PA. The Ministry of Agriculture and the PA have developed
guidelines on the requirements to be met by the restructuring plans proposed by agro-kombinats.
The intent of the guidelines is to ensure that in the majority of cases vertically integrated
enterprises are broken up to allow their distinct business units to be privatized independently.
Specifically, the guidelines require the spin-off of non-core businesses (including hotels, social
facilities, retail units, transportation, milling, baking), and a separate valuation for privatization
purposes of all identified profit centers within large agro-kombinats. The PA expects that in the
majority of cases individual profit centers are likely to be offered for privatization as spin-off
business units; in all cases the PA, with the Ministry of Agriculture, will actively review
restructuring plans to ensure they promote greater competition and market responsiveness in the
agricultural sector, including options for reorganizing "core farming enterprises (i.e. that part
of the enterprise directly using land) on a more flexible basis.
74.   The emergence of large numbers of surplus workers is a concern for the Government,
both from a social perspective and in that this phenomenon could delay or derail the privatization
process.  The recent operating losses of the agro-kombinats would suggest that the new
incentives released through privatization could lead to employment reduction. This has been the
experience in other sectors of the economy; indeed workforces in many of the largest loss-
making enterprises have been reduced by around 30 percent over the last eighteen months. The
availability and strengthening of social safety net provisions (see paragraph 106 below) should
ameliorate the negative social impact of layoffs. Broad-based support for the privatization
program is encouraged by the involvement of all stakeholder (management and employees) in
the transformation of enterprises. Indeed the popular use of MEBOs as the privatization route
has been a key element in maintaining support for the process even in the face of employment
downsizing.
VI. THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PROGRAM
Reform Objectives
75.   The main aim of the Government's reform program--which the proposed SAL would
support--is to secure the benefits of the impressive stabilization and structural changes achieved
since the beginning of 1994 (Section II, especially paragraphs 10-17 and Annex 3). The
program is driven by the recognition that, while many reforms have been implemented thus far,
significant economic distortions remain, particularly in the trade and agriculture sectors. The
resulting incentives constrain the efficiency of the country's private sector and undermine
economic recovery.
76.   The key distortions in trade policy hitherto have been the selective bans and restrictions
on import and export volumes, special import levies on some agricultural imports, and
widespread exemptions from import taxes. These overwhelmed the apparently straightforward



25
basic tariff structure. In agriculture, there are explicit budget subsidies, guaranteed fixed prices
for key commodities, and the operation of the Agency for Strategic Reserves. The distortions
mean that consumers are paying too much for basic items such as bread, the burden on taxpayers
is too high, fewer resources are available for essential public spending, and the scarce moneys
available for domestic investment are being pulled into areas in which the country lacks a
competitive edge. And, in the enterprise sector, many agro-kombinats lack the incentives to
generate new growth in a market environment; their continuing presence as socially-owned
enterprises inhibits new private investment. The removal of these distortions will establish clear
price signals for the growing private sector in trade and agriculture, relieve consumers and
taxpayers of the financial burdens caused by existing policies, propel the country's economy to
integrate into the regional and world markets, and help bring about strong and sustained
economic growth.
77.   Accordingly, the Government has identified the following as priority elements in the next
phase of its economic reform program:
(a)   liberalizing further the trade policy regime;
(b)   reforming agricultural policy;
(c)   privatizing socially-owned enterprises in agriculture;
(d)   completing the process of privatizing socially-owned industrial and
commercial enterprises.
The detailed measures of the reform program are presented immediately below and in a policy
matrix included as Annex 2. The measures of greatest importance already taken, and those
which will be core policy conditions to trigger second tranche release of the proposed loan, are
summarized in Table 8, paragraph 111 below. The other measures, nonetheless, are important
to maintaining the integrity and sustainability of the reform package and will be monitored
carefully.
Liberalizing Trade Policy
78.   In reforming the trade policy regime, the Government has been moving to: (a) change
the Customs tariff and limit exemptions; (b) rationalize import taxes; (c) dismantle import and
export quotas; (d) strengthen export incentives; and (e) rationalize trade institutions in the
country. These measures have been designed with a view also to preparing the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia to become a member of the World Trade Organization (WTO) and,
subsequently, of the European Union (EU).
79.   A new Customs tariff, following the Harmonized System, was enacted in July 1996. The
new tariff ranges between zero and 35 percent for the great majority of items, and has seven
bands whereas the old one had 18 bands. Under the old system, the simple average of nominal
duties (tariffs plus special taxes) for goods on the regular tariff schedule was around 28 percent;
this is reduced to around 15 percent under the new tariff schedule. The Govemment will keep
the average tariff rate under careful review, and expects that the new figure will be maintained,



26
or even reduced further over the medium term. Customs processing will be simpler because,
by and large, duty exemptions have been eliminated, except for those commonly provided
worldwide; e.g., personal goods of returning residents, goods for humanitarian purposes, and
personal effects and goods of individuals and institutions governed by diplomatic and
international treaties. Overall, the new tariff structure is expected to be broadly revenue-
neutral, with the lowering of tariff rates being balanced by the elimination of many exemptions.
80.   The new tariff is being implemented quickly since the Customs Department has prepared
the necessary software (manuals, computer programs and concordance tables), obtained Euro
Customs assistance to familiarize officers with the Harmonized System and initiated training in
customs valuation. As further steps, a valuation unit is to be set up at Customs Headquarters
and the Customs Code revised to streamline procedures for inspection of cargo, payment of
duty, introduction of clearing agents, prosecution of violations and other arrangements aligned
to EU standards. The Government also will continue with Customs modemization measures as
supported by the Bank's Transit Facilitation Project loan.
81.   With the introduction of the new tariff and elimination of most duty exemptions,
Govemment has decided to eliminate the two import taxes of 7.5 percent each, and eliminate
the one percent "statistical charge". The Government has issued a decision freeing up imports
previously under quotas and requiring only that, for a small list, expert Ministry opinion be
obtained to enforce internationally accepted phyto-sanitary standards (principally for food and
agricultural products) and other safety and quality standards (petroleum derivatives, iron and
aluminum products and buses). Government has also converted imports previously subject to
special levies (including wheat, wheat flour, sugar, milk, cheese, edible oil) to a schedule of
tariff plus surcharge, subject to a ceiling. In addition, the Government will prepare a program
for further liberalization of tariffs and/or surcharges on these items, and will implement the
program in stages.
82.   The 90 export items previously under quota have also been freed up, with a small list
subject to expert Ministry opinion to enforce environmental regulations and track domestic
supplies of a few food and feed grains and seed, and petroleum products. For exports facing
quotas imposed by importing countries, the Government intends to either introduce periodic
auctions to share out restricted access to preferred markets, or award the available quotas on a
semi-permanent basis and allow them to be transferred so the quotas would go to firms which
can use them most effectively.
83.   The reform of the import regime, as outlined above, will benefit exporters by reducing
their costs of imported inputs. In addition, Government intends to strengthen and speed up the
processing of the existing duty drawback scheme for exporters. Such measures will enable
Government to limit export assistance payments, to no more than MDen 150 million in 1997,
and target them to smallholders only.
84.   Further on the institutional front, the Government intends to consolidate and streamline
its trade policy functions. It has discontinued the import quota administration functions of the



27
Ministry of Foreign Relations and will transfer all trade policy functions into one central
economic Ministry. Government will ensure that tariff setting and exemptions are properly
documented and codified. Also, a trade policy unit will be set up within government to monitor
the trade regime on a regular basis and to assess any proposals for change in terms of its
economy-wide effect. This unit will become the focal point for all trade-related work in the
country's accession to membership of the WTO and the EU.
Reforming Agricultural Policy
85.   Reform of Government agricultural policy focuses on: (a) reducing interventions in output
prices8; (b) ending input subsidies; (c) limiting and reforming the operations of the Agency for
Strategic Reserves; and (d) re-orienting the functions of the Ministry of Agriculture away from
intervention and towards policy support for the private sector. These measures are intended to
stimulate efficiency in agricultural production and to confine the public agencies in agriculture
to supporting the development of the private sector. The private sector in agriculture in the
country is predominantly smallholder and relies very little on Government financial support.
86.   To reduce price intervention, the Government-guaranteed price for wheat in 1996 was
not raised from that paid in 1995 (i.e., MDen 10 per kg). The guaranteed prices for sugarbeet
and sunflower are to be eliminated now, while those for tobacco and wheat are to be linked to
world market prices, at parity in 1997 and at 70 percent or less of world prices thereafter.
Consistent with this change, the fixed retail price of bread has been amended to a price cap, in
preparation for the freeing of the price,9when the anti-monopoly law, now under preparation,
is in place. Expenditure on government-financed price premia for wheat, sugarbeet, sunflower,
other oilseeds and milk during 1996 was kept well below 1995 level. As a next major step, the
Government will remove the legal obligation to award price premia and refrain from making
such payments effective May 1, 1997.
87.   The ending of input subsidies is now close at hand. In prior action, credit rebates were
eliminated in 1996 and it has ben agreed now to eliminate seed rebates from 1997.
88.   Changes in the operations of the Agency for Strategic Reserves are to accompany these
other policy changes. The Government recognize that to-date the Agency's operations have
been fulfilling two functions, namely, commodity security and market intervention. The
commodity security function is one of great concern to the Government, given the supply
uncertainties the country has had to endure in recent years, but the market intervention function
is at odds with the strategy to liberalize the agricultural market. The Government, therefore,
intends to re-orient the operation of the Agency to the former and cease actions designed
8/    Intervention prices apply to seven commodities at present, down from 12 in 1992. The seven commodities
influenced at present are: wheat/bread, sunflower seed, other oilseeds, sugar beet, milk, corn and tobacco.
9/     The fixed retail price, M Den 23, applies only to a "standard" loaf; this is a 600-gram loaf made from type 500
flour. All other bread prices are free to fluctuate.



28
primarily as market interventions. This policy is to be developed further by undertaking a
fundamental review, with independent external assistance if required, of the approach to strategic
reserves for the most critical commodities, including an examination of alternative, cost-effective
instruments with greater involvement of the private sector.
89.   Meanwhile, the expenditure of the Agency was reduced from MDen 1,250 million in
1995 to MDen 670 million in 1996. For 1997, the Agency's allocation in the budget has been
reduced further to MDen 520 million. The results of the above-mentioned review will be used
to design a new program for food and fuel security to be implemented over a period not
exceeding three years, with any specific cost-saving measures to be implemented as quickly as
possible.
90.   The role of the Ministry of Agriculture is to be re-orientated away from intervention and
towards setting the market framework and strategic direction within which private farming can
flourish. This is the most important agenda item being set in the Ministry's recently prepared
Agricultural Development Strategy. As a key step, a review of the Ministry's responsibilities
and expenditure plan will be undertaken, with emphasis on identifying those functions (e.g.
veterinary services) which can be managed and delivered by the private sector. Where public
involvement and expenditure is justified, approaches will be developed to target assistance to
where it is most needed, including to small farmers and herders in remote areas.
Privatizing Socially-owned Enterprises
91.   In the program to extend privatization, Parliament passed the Law for Transformation
of Enterprises and Cooperatives with Social Capital that Manage Agricultural Land (Agricultural
Privatization Law) on April 12, 1996. Amongst other things, this law: (a) grants the
Privatization Agency (PA) the authority to approve privatization proposals, to reject
unsatisfactory submissions, and to initiate privatization where necessary; (b) permits small and
medium-sized enterprises no more than 6 months, and large enterprises no more than 12 months
to submit their privatization plans; (c) mandates large enterprises, as part of the privatization
process, to prepare restructuring plans which must be approved by the Ministry of Agriculture
and the PA; and (d) facilitates the provision of leases for the use of state-owned agriculture land.
92.   The Ministry of Agriculture and the PA have developed and issued guidelines on the
requirements to be met by the restructuring plans proposed by agro-kombinats. These
requirements include spin-off of non-core businesses (hotels, social facilities, retail units,
transportation, milling, baking), and a separate valuation for privatization purposes of all
identified profit centers within large agro-kombinats. It is expected that in the majority of cases
individual profit centers are likely to be offered for privatization as spin-off business units; in
all cases the Ministry of Agriculture and the PA will actively review restructuring plans to
ensure they promote greater competition and market responsiveness in the agricultural sector,
including options for reorganizing "core farming enterprises (i.e. that part of the enterprise
directly using land) on a more flexible basis.



29
93.   To facilitate the privatization effort in agriculture, the Government, with technical
assistance from Japan, has established a small (5-person) advisory team to assist agricultural
enterprises in preparing privatization plans and in reorganizing their businesses to adapt to
changing market conditions. This team is under the supervision of the PA.
94.   The PA, drawing on its own resources and the technical assistance it has arranged, will
encourage and assist in delivering a reasonably swift pace of privatization. At least 20
privatization plans, including those from 2 agro-kombinats with more than 200 employees, have
been submitted to the PA. By the end of 1997 it is expected that privatization contracts will be
signed, or operations ceased and liquidation proceedings initiated, for at least 70 percent (a
minimum of 170) of eligible enterprises in agriculture. This total will include at least 3
agro-kombinats with more than 1,000 employees, and at least a further 17 with more than 200
workers. Further, the PA will submit to the Bank a satisfactory plan to complete, within six
months of the second tranche release date, the outstanding privatizations or liquidations.
Satisfactory short-term leases for the use of state land (see below) should be in place for all
privatized farming enterprises.
95.   In implementing the provisions of the Agricultural Privatization Law, the Government
has developed guidelines, including model lease contracts, on the measures for interim rights of
use of state-owned land. These guidelines incorporate two key features. First, leases granted
to agro-kombinats during privatization will be for no more (and by the Law, no less) than five
years' duration. The value of this concession to use state-owned agricultural land will be
accounted for as part of the overall valuation of the enterprise being prepared for privatization.
Second, at least 15 percent of state-owned agricultural land will be tendered competitively. The
competition will be managed by the Government, and will be open and transparent to maximize
the opportunities for potential bidders, particularly small private farmers.
96.   Beyond these measures for interim use of state-owned agricultural land, Government
intends to work intensively to implement new foundations for a freer and more active market
in land. A priority is to submit to Parliament a new Law on Land Use, targeted for final
reading during 1997. This law will be based on the broad principles that: (i) restrictions on
land use will be limited only by standard planning and environmental considerations; (ii) an open
and transparent method will be used to transfer, within 5 years or less, state-owned land to the
private sector. The transfer may be through outright sale or secure long leases; (iii) land
transferred will be capable of further sale, lease or sub-lease, and can be used to take mortgages.
97.   Accompanying these legislative developments, the Land Cadastre office will be
strengthened, in terms of completing its records on agricultural land and extending this system
to record and monitor the leases, and any liens, being entered into by newly privatized
enterprises. These records will be made available, at a nominal charge to cover the office's
administrative cost, for consultation by the public, without other restrictive conditions. Work
will continue on plans to extend land titling and devise new ways to resolve disputes on land
ownership, use and leasing.



30
98.   To strengthen the legal framework for private sector development, Government is
pursuing its schedule to restore previously nationalized assets to the private sector. The Law
on Denationalization is to be put in place during 1997 and at the same time its provisions would
be publicized across the community. A central implementing unit and regional outposts will be
established and staffed, and these units will commence processing initial claims made under the
law. The Government also intends to submit to Parliament in 1997 an Anti-Monopoly Law to
control against possible monopoly abuses which emerge during and beyond the transition to a
market economy.
99.   In further development of the basic legal structure for a market economy, a draft
Bankruptcy Law, which had been agreed with the Bank, received first reading in Parliament in
July 1996; a new Commercial Code was enacted in August 1996; and a new Law on Securities
Trading was enacted in February 1997. Government has also prepared a draft new Collateral
Law, which is scheduled to be enacted by the end of 1997, along with a new Bankruptcy Law.
To improve flexibility in the labor market, amendments to the Employment Law are planned for
1997 to, among other features, abolish the minimum unemployment benefit, reduce the
maximum duration of unemployment benefits, and allow benefit eligibility to be revoked for
those refusing job offers. A draft incorporating these amendments to the Employment Law has
already been submitted to Parliament.
100. Regarding completing the mainstream privatization program, some 800 enterprises (from
a total of 1,217) were privatized (or liquidation proceedings initiated) under the FESAC-
supported program.  Building on this progress, and using the same legal framework,
privatization contracts have been signed now (or operations ceased and liquidation proceedings
initiated) for a cumulative total of at least 880 enterprises. By mid-1997, it is expected that
privatization contracts will be signed (or operations ceased and liquidation proceedings initiated)
for a cumulative total of at least 1,150 enterprises (around 95 percent of the identified set of
enterprises).
101. Further steps will be taken to finish the agenda established under the Special
Restructuring Program (SRP). Already, privatization contracts have been signed, or operations
ceased and liquidation proceedings initiated, for a cumulative total of at least 40 of the 123
business units derived from the SRP enterprises. Within this total, there were at least 3 of the
largest 6 loss-makers which had majority state and/or social capital. By the end of 1997, it is
expected that privatization contracts will be signed, or operations ceased and liquidation
proceedings initiated, for a cumulative total of at least 110 of the 123 business units derived
from the SRP enterprises. Within this total, there will be at least 9 of the largest 10 loss-makers
which have majority state and/or social capital. In respect of the electricity and railway utilities
(also under the SRP), privatization contracts have been signed, or operations ceased and
liquidation proceedings initiated, for at least 4 business unit spin-offs from the two utilities. This
process is expected to be completed for all identified business unit spin-offs by the end of 1997.
The PA will also ensure that at least 75 percent of the total of any remaining state or socially-
owned capital in SRP enterprises is offered on open sale to private investors.



31
Budgetary Impact of Reforms
102.  The net budgetary impact of the trade and agricultural policy reforms is likely to be small
and, in the short term, there may even be a small increase in revenue collected plus expenses
saved. On the revenue side, the simple tariff with a top rate of 35 percent with few to no
exemptions would more than compensate for losses derived from the removal of the two 7.5
percent import taxes.10 The temporary surcharges that have replaced former special levies are
to be phased out over the medium term and the loss of revenue therefrom would be manageable,
in part because of reform measures that will reduce expenditures. Such measures would include
the reduction and elimination of agricultural subsidies, together with reductions in the scope, and
improvements in the operations, of the Agency for Strategic Reserves. These could result in
annual expenditure savings of around a billion denars (that is, between two and three percent of
central government current expenditures budgeted for 1997). Privatization proceeds from
enterprise sales are expected to be relatively modest, and in the first instance will meet the
administrative costs of the privatization program. Given delayed instalment terms on share
payments, any net proceeds will take two years or more to emerge. Some 15 percent of
enterprises shares will be allocated to the State Pension Fund.
Social Impact and Poverty Links
103.  The removal of existing protection and subsidies in agriculture is not likely to bring about
any major negative effect on the most vulnerable groups in the country. This is because of the
incidence of the protection and subsidies whereby, as described in paragraphs 53 and 55, support
to agriculture to date has mainly sustained agro-kombinats and provided cash benefits to large
private producers and some small producers. Because of the mechanisms used to provide these
benefits, subsistence producers do not receive them. As Government policy now is to divest the
agro-kombinats, the removal of trade protection and financial subsidies will lead to appropriate
price signals to the successor private enterprises. The impact of these reforms will be reflected
principally in evolving markets for agricultural goods. If--as is expected--reform results in more
competitive and stable markets, the impact on the well-being of the rural population will be
positive.
104. Recalling too that one glaring consequence of protecting and subsidizing domestic
agriculture has been high prices of key food products (see paragraph 56), the proposed reforms
will make the entire program itself a positive social policy. Reduced protection to wheat, for
instance, could result in bread prices lower than they would be without the reforms. This is
significant since, in 1994, bread constituted two-thirds of the quantity of cereal products
consumed by households in the country." Thus the proposed reform program would help
10/    Note that, because of the widespread nature of exemptions under previous import taxation (duties and import
taxes), actual duty collections were quite low--around 10 percent of total imports in 1995.
i1/    Cereal products made up one-fifth of household food expenditures in 1994 and food expenditures, in turn, made up
about half of total household expenditures in the same year.



32
mitigate some of the effects of unemployment created by privatization and the transition to a
market economy. It would also help offset the losses of those few small producers in the private
sector who benefit from the existing protection and subsidies.
105. There are two groups of the rural population, however, which would be vulnerable to the
consequences of reforms supported under this operation. One group consists of sheep herders
in localities with large areas of highland pasture that are not suitable for other agricultural uses.12
This group would be affected by changes in levels of support for livestock breeding services.
The other group would be agro-kombinat workers discharged as a result of restructuring and
privatization and having no access to land or other employment. This problem would be most
serious for employees of enterprises located outside major population centers and those areas
least likely to attract new investment.
106. The Government's view is that the existing expenditure programs and safety net
measures, which themselves are being adjusted following earlier advice from the Bank and the
Fund, should be adequate to support the vulnerable groups to cope with the adverse social
consequences of the reforms. The country has four main instruments for social protection of
workers and other members of the population during this period of economic transition:
(a)   for workers made redundant from  socially-owned enterprises, compulsory
redundancy payments typically equivalent to eight months of salary are payable
by the enterprise. Such redundancy payments, and any wage arrears, have first
claim on the enterprise assets, and to date have been almost universally respected;
(b)   workers laid off because of redundancy are eligible for unemployment benefit
payments, typically around 30 percent of the average wage, with a long maximum
duration of 24 months (shortly due to be reduced);
(c)   households with very low incomes are eligible for means tested income support
(soon to be better targeted and linked to a poverty-line measure);
(d)   state pensions are paid to retired and disabled workers.
107. Finally, informal surveys of smallholders and herdsfolk during identification of this
operation indicated that these groups were concerned more with the scarcity and high price of
credit than with reduction or withdrawal of direct and indirect government subsidies. To the
extent that the credit constraint was due to hitherto tight monetary policy and a lack of trust in
the banking system, there are indications that the situation may begin to improve. As inflation
expectations decrease, monetary policy could be eased somewhat while reforms initiated under
the FESAC are sustained to make the banking system viable. To develop rural financial
services, the Bank approved two operations in FY96 (a US$7.9 million equivalent Credit for the
12/   For example, the sheep herders around Kriva Palanka, Kocani, Berovo and Kicevo.



33
Private Farmer Support Project and a US$12 million equivalent Loan for the Private Sector
Development Project) which, among other components, include a credit line, assistance to
participating banks to work with small and medium borrowers, assistance to improve farmers'
access to commercial credit through rural business advisory services, and support to rural-based
member-owned savings and credit associations.
VII. THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN AND IDA CREDIT
Rationale for Bank Involvement
108. The rationale for Bank involvement in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
derives from a number of factors. This is a lower middle-income country that, upon inception
about five years ago, was beset with major economic dislocation and very little external
assistance. The country had the potential to grow into a viable economy over the medium term;
but to realize that potential it needed to reform radically its economic policies and institutions
and the necessary technical and financial capability to design and implement the right reforms.
In this, as a new member country from early 1994, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
sought Bank Group assistance. The Bank Group agreed to thus become involved in the country,
given its advantage in knowledge of transition economies and also given the knowledge of, and
prior operations in, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia when the country was a
member of the SFRY.
109.  This proposed operation is consistent with the Bank Group's country assistance strategy,
discussed by the Board on May 16, 1995, which is designed to: (a) support stabilization and
structural reform with analytical inputs and adjustment lending; (b) assist productive sector
development and strengthen the social safety net through investment lending and technical
assistance; and (c) continue donor coordination through the Consultative Group. Consistent with
this strategy, the Bank Group has to date approved two adjustment operations (the Economic
Recovery Loan/Credit in FY94 and the FESAC in FY95) and five investment operations (the
Transit Facilitation Project, and the Social Reform and Technical Assistance Project, both in
FY95; and the Health Sector Transition Project, the Private Farmer Support Project and the
Private Sector Development Project, all in FY96).
110. The Government has been highly responsive to close policy dialogue with the Bank as
well as other multilateral bodies, notably the Fund and the EBRD, and bilateral donors.
Accordingly, the SAL is being proposed now in view of: (a) the Government's responsiveness
to date, (b) its solid record for implementing agreed reforms, (c) its intention to reform trade
and agricultural policies and extend its privatization program, and (d) its continuing need for
external financial assistance over the medium term.
Conditions for Board Presentation and Second Tranche Release
111. As shown in the policy matrix (Annex 2), the Government has already implemented a
number of measures in each of the reform areas identified for the proposed SAL. During



34
appraisal, the Board presentation and second tranche measures in the policy matrix were
discussed with Government and agreement on them confirmed during negotiations. Table 8
shows the measures of greatest importance already taken and those which will constitute core
policy conditions to trigger second tranche release of the proposed loan. Immediately following
negotiations, the Government presented to the Bank a Letter of Development Policy (LDP),
which was found to be satisfactory. The LDP was subsequently updated, reflecting recent
progress, and signed, and remains satisfactory (Annex 1).
Table 8: CORE POLICY CONDrTIONS FOR THE SAL
Measures already Taken                               Measures for Second Tranche Release
Trade Policy Reform
New Customs tariff adopted, unifying multiple import taxes   Implement new Customs tariff, with no exemptions except
and eliminating most discretionary exemptions.             those established: (a) by international treaties; and (b) for
imports of goods for humanitarian purposes.
Items under quota and/or special levies converted to a     Implement the first stage of the program for liberalization
schedule of tariff plus surcharge; and preparation of a    of tariffs and/or surcharges on items which were previously
program for further tariff liberalization on these items has  subject to quotas and/or special levies, which Government
begun.                                                     shall have prepared based on guidelines agreed with the
Bank.
Agreement to reduce any remaining export assistance        Establish, in a central economic Ministry, a trade policy
payments to no more than MDenlS10 million in the 1997      unit.
budget.
Agrcultural Policy Reform
The 1996 guaranteed base price for wheat did not exceed    Adopt a formula, satisfactory to the Bank, linking
that for 1995 (MDen 10/kg).                                guaranteed base prices for wheat and tobacco to world
market prices so that such prices shall not exceed 100
percent of the world market prices in 1997 and 70 percent
thereafter.
Eliminate guaranteed base prices for sugarbeet and
sunflower.
Submit to the Bank evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that
Government is under no legal obligation to award price
premia for sugarbeet, sunflower, other oilseeds and milk,
and that all necessary measures shall have been taken to
ensure that such payments are ceased effective May 1,
1997.
Agreement to conduct a full, independent review of the     Submit to the Bank a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
security operations for food, fuel and pharmaceuticals of  security operations for food, fuel and pharmaceuticals of
the Agency for Strategic Reserves.                         the Agency for Strategic Reserves.
(CONTINUED)



35
CORE POLICY CONDITIONS (Continued)
Measures already Taken               T             Measures for Second Tranche Release
Refonning Socially-owned Enterprises
Adoption by Parliament of the Law for Privatization in    Submission to Parliament for final reading of a draft Law
Agriculture.                                             on Land Use, satisfactory to the Bank.
Guidelines, including model lease contracts, developed on  Signing of contracts for privatization, or cessation of
measures for interim rights of use of state-owned        operations and initiation of liquidation proceedings, of at
agricultural land, to be awarded through competitive     least 70 percent of enterprises eligible for privatization in
tendering.                                               accordance with the Law on Privatizaion of Agricultural
Enterprises, dated April 12, 1966; provided, however, that
such enterprises shall include at least 3 agro-kombinats
with more than 1,000 employees, and at least an additional
17 agro-kombinats with more than 200 employees.
Submission to Parliament of agreed amendments to the
Employment Law.
Adoption by Parliament of a new Law on Securities        Adoption by Parliament of (i) a new Bankruptcy Law, and
Trading.                                                 (ii) a new Collateral Law, in each case satisfactory to the
Bank.
Privatization contracts signed, or operations ceased and  Signing of contracts for privatization, or cessation of
liquidation proceedings initied, for a cumulative total of at   operations and initiation of liquidation proceedings, of a
least 40 of the 123 business units derived from the SRP  cumulative total of at least 110 of the 123 business units
enterprises; within this total, there were at least 3 of the  derived from SRP enterprises; provided, that this total shall
largest 6 loss-making enterprises.                        include at least 9 of the 10 enterprises determined by
agreement between Government and the Bank, as the
Government's largest loss-maldng enterpriss.
Loan and Credit Administration
112. Amount and Tranching. The proposed Loan, in the amount of DM 44.4 million, would
be made to the Government for 20 years, including a five-year grace period, at the standard
interest rate for LIBOR-based Deutsche mark loans. The proposed Credit for SDR 20.6 million,
the equivalent of US$30 million, would be on IDA terms, with a 35-year maturity, including a
10-year grace period. A first tranche of DM22.2 million and SDR 16.5 million, respectively
for the loan and the credit, would be available for disbursement on effectiveness, and the
balance, upon compliance with conditions for second tranche release.
113. Procurement, Disbursements and Accounts. Proceeds of the loan and credit will be
disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the adjustment program, including compliance
with stipulated tranche release conditions and maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic
framework. In accordance with the Board decision dated February 1, 1996 on "Simplifying
Disbursements under SALs", disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases, and, hence,
there will be no procurement requirements.
114. Upon Board approval of the loan and credit, the Ministry of Finance, as the borrower,
will open and maintain a Deposit Account in the NBM. As each tranche is released, the NBM,



36
as authorized by the Government, will submit a simplified withdrawal application, against which
the Bank/IDA will disburse the loan/credit proceeds into the Deposit Account for the Ministry's
use. If after deposit in the Deposit Account the proceeds of the loan/credit or any part thereof
is used for ineligible purposes (to be defined in the Loan and Credit Agreements), the Bank/IDA
will require the borrower to either (a) return that amount to the Deposit Account for use for
eligible purposes, or (b) refund the amount directly to the Bank/IDA, in which case the
Bank/IDA will cancel an equivalent amount of the loan/credit.
115. Audit. The NBM would maintain records of all transactions under the loan/credit in
accordance with sound accounting practices. While the Bank will not routinely require an audit
of the Deposit Account, it will reserve the right to do so.
116. Monitoring Arrangements. The Ministry of Finance and the NBM will be responsible
for monitoring the implementation of the program. The Bank will monitor the implementation
of the reform program with the help of the Policy Matrix attached to the Letter of Development
Policy, through semi-annual reviews, as well as in the context of the preparation and supervision
of other operations and non-lending services.
117. Environmental Assessment Requirements. This proposed operation would not involve
organized relocation of people nor entail other compelling environmental impact. Hence, in
accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01), it
has been placed in Category "C" and would not require an environmental assessment.
Benefits and Risks
118. The principal benefits of the reforms to be supported by this operation would be to
strengthen the incentives, and hence prospects, for sustainable growth of trade and agriculture
in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Such growth is vital to generating overall
economic recovery in the country which, in the process of transition thus far, has seen its
income per head drop by 40 percent, from US$1,360 in 1990 to an estimated US$840 in 1995.
The implementation of the trade and agricultural policy reforms is expected to alleviate over time
the significant financial burdens (annually, the equivalent of about a month's average wage for
a worker in each non-agricultural household) which current policies impose on the country's
consumers and taxpayers. The reforms, moreover, will enhance the involvement of the private
sector in the economy as Government moves to divest socially-owned enterprises in agriculture.
119. There are significant risks for the program, especially from domestic tensions resulting
from the prolonged economic decline and increasing unemployment. Should this weaken the
resolve to continue with the reform program, the budget and trade deficits might widen and
payments arrears recur. Yet, the Government is aware that it ought to press on with reforms
if it is to secure the benefits of stabilization and adjustment measures already implemented, and
go on to integrate the country's economy into the regional and world markets. Indeed, the
Government's commitment to advance and deepen the reforms is borne out by its impressive
track record and by the comprehensive medium-term PFP and associated measures agreed upon



37
with the Bank and the Fund. Furthermore, these measures have been disseminated widely within
the country and to the international community. In view of all these events, the Government
will not easily abandon the reforms it has embarked on.
Vm. RECOMMENDATION
120. I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit comply with the Articles of Agreement
of the Bank and the Association, respectively, and I recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the loan and credit.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser
Attachments: Annexes 1 - 5
Schedules B - E
Washington, D.C.
April 10, 1997



38
*                                  ANNEX I
Page I of 9
REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
SKOPJE
Letter of Development Policy
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND CREDIT
April 2, 1997
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1.    Over the past four years we have worked closely with the international donor and
creditor community active in our country to design and implement a comprehensive program
of economic policy reforms. We are much encouraged by the pace and extent of financial
stabilization and structural reforms we have carried out thus far. Attesting to the viability and
sound implementation of our policies, the international community has committed a variety of
financial and technical assistance facilities to support those policies.
2.    For instance, the International Monetary Fund (MP) approved for us two purcdases
from its Systemic Transformation Facility (STF). We also complied with a strong program
under a 13-month Stand-by arrangement completed in June 1996. The World Bank, as you are
aware, has to date disbursed two adjustment operations, the Economic Recovery Loan and
Credit (ERL) and the Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (FESAC) to support
structural reforms of our socially-owned industrial enterprises, the financial sector and the
social safety net. The Paris Club of bilateral creditors and the London Club of commercial
creditors have both rescheduled our debts to their members, and we have obtained project aid
in several sectors from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), the
World Bank, and bilateral members of the Consultative Group (CG) for our country. Most
recently, participants at the Joint G-24 and CG meeting held in February 1997 pledged
significant additional balance of payments support for our country this year.
3.    Our country needs to press on, however, with further reforms to consolidate the stable
financial conditions we have been creating and promote the long-sought growth of output and
employment in the economy. This Letter of Development Policy outlines our program for
such reforms and seeks an adjustment loan and credit from the World Bank to support the
program.



39
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 9
4.    Given the small size of our domestic market and our resource endowments, we believe
that trade and agriculture have major potential to revive and accelerate economic growth in the
country. But these sectors are constrained at present by a number of policy and institutional
deficiencies. Therefore, our program consists of a coherent macroeconomic framework and
structural measures to: (a) liberalize further the trade regime; (b) reduce price interventions in
agriculture; (c) privatize socially-owned enterprises in agriculture; and (d) finish privatizing
socially-owned industrial and commercial enterprises.
Macroeconomic Policy Framework
5.    While we undoubtedly wish to advance structural reforms in the country, we wish to do
so in a stable financial setting. We have therefore reached agreement with the IMF for an
arrangement under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) to help us implement
appropriate medium-term macroeconomic objectives, which are to: (a) consolidate the progress
made in lowering inflation; and (b) promote economic recovery.
6.    To consolidate low inflation, our monetary and fiscal policies will reinforce each other.
We will maintain a cautious monetary stance, complete the bank rehabilitation program
initiated under FESAC and extend it further as necessary, and develop market-based
instruments of monetary management. As such instruments take hold, we will phase out direct
controls like credit ceilings on banks and marginal reserve requirements on commercial banks.
7.    Our medium-term fiscal policy will focus on continued tight control of the budget
deficit. In view of the already very high tax burden (over 40 percent of GDP) in the country,
revenue policy will emphasize broadening the tax base by eliminating the multitude of
exemptions (e.g., in sales and import taxes). Furthermore, the effective tax base will be
broadened by strengthening tax compliance in the growing private sector. With a broader tax
base, income and social security tax rates could be lowered. Plans are also under way to
replace the existing three-tier sales tax with a single-rate VAT.
8.    General government expenditure policy will aim to reduce and eventually eliminate
agricultural and export subsidies, and contain the growth of spending on public wages. While
a number of measures have been taken to-date to restrain social spending (e.g., partial
indexation of pensions, increases in retirement age, cuts in child and vacation allowances), we
believe there is scope for restraining such spending further and, to that end, will examine a
number of options, including: reduction in the duration of cash benefits to the unemployed
(currently 24 months), lower public pensions (currently, the ratio of average pensions to wages
is 62 percent), and streamlining employment and introducing user charges in health care.
With such measures, it should be possible to achieve substantial savings that can be directed to
essential public infrastructure to support economic recovery.
9.    We recognize that, while we have implemented many reforms thus far, significant
policy distortions remain in our economy, particularly in the trade and agriculture sectors.



40
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 9
The resulting incentives constrain the efficiency of the country's private sector and undermine
economic recovery.
10.   The key distortions in trade policy have been the selective bans and restrictions on
import and export volumes, high special levies on some agricultural imports, and widespread
exemptions from import taxes. These overwhelmed the straightforward basic tariff structure.
In agriculture, trade protection is accompanied by domestic market intervention including
explicit budget subsidies, guaranteed fixed prices and/or price premia for key commodities,
and the operation of the Agency for Strategic Reserves. The distortions mean that consumers
are paying too much for basic items such as bread, the burden on taxpayers is too high, fewer
resources are available for essential public spending, and the scarce moneys available for
domestic investment are being pulled into areas in which the country lacks a competitive edge.
And, in the enterprise sector, many agro-kombinats lack incentives to generate new growth in
a market environment; their continuing presence as socially-owned enterprises inhibits new
private investment. In our view, it is essential now to focus on altering this situation.
11.   Accordingly, as well as completing ongoing policy reforms in the enterprise, financial
and social sectors, we have identified the following as priority elements in the next phase of
our economic reform program: (a) liberalizing further the trade policy regime; (b) reforming
agricultural policy; (c) privatizing socially-owned enterprises in agriculture; (d) completing the
process of privatizing socially-owned industrial and commercial enterprises.
Liberalizing Trade Policy
12.   Trade policy reforms in our program involve: (a) implementing a new, harmonized
Customs tariff consistent with EU and international standards; (b) rationalizing import taxes;
(c) dismantling import and export quotas; (d) strengthening export incentives; and (e)
rationalizing trade institutions in the country. These measures to achieve an open economy
have been designed with a view also to preparing our country to become a member of the
World Trade Organization (WTO) and, subsequently, the European Union (EU).
13.   A new Customs tariff, following the Harmonized System, was enacted in July 1996.
The new tariff ranges between zero and 35 percent for the great majority of items, and has
seven bands whereas the old one had 18 bands. The new structure is expected to be broadly
neutral with respect to protection and revenues, but will simplify Customs processing and thus
enhance our competitiveness. Processing will be simpler also because, by and large, duty
exemptions are eliminated, except for those commonly provided worldwide; e.g., personal
goods of returning residents, goods for humanitarian purposes, and personal effects and goods
of individuals and institutions govemed by diplomatic and international treaties.
14.   To implement the new tariff the Customs Department has prepared the necessary
software, obtained Euro Customs assistance to familiarize officers with the Harmonized
System and initiated training in customs valuation. As further steps, a valuation unit will be



41
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 9
set up at Customs Headquarters and the Customs Code revised to streamline procedures for
inspection of cargo, payment of duty, introduction of clearing agents, prosecution of violations
and other arrangements aligned to EU standards. We will continue with Customs
modernization measures supported by the Bank's Transit Facilitation Project loan.
15.     With the introduction of the new tariff and elimination of most duty exemptions, we
have decided to eliminate the two import taxes of 7.5 percent each, and eliminate the one
percent "statistical charge". We have issued a decision freeing up imports previously under
quotas and requiring only that, for a small list, expert Ministry opinion be obtained to enforce
internationally accepted phyto-sanitary standards (principally for food and agricultural
products) and other safety and quality standards (petroleum derivatives, iron and aluminum
products and buses). We have also converted imports previously subject to special levies
(including wheat, wheat flour, sugar, milk, cheese, edible oil) to a schedule of tariff plus
surcharge, subject to a ceiling. In addition, we will prepare a program for further
liberalization of tariffs and/or surcharges on these items, and will implement the program in
stages.
16      The 90 export items previously under quota have also been freed up, with a small list
subject to expert Ministry opinion to enforce environmental regulations and track domestic
supplies of a few food and feed grains and seed, and petroleum products. For exports facing
quotas imposed by importing countries, we intend to either introduce periodic auctions to share
out restricted access to preferred markets, or award the available quotas on a semi-permanent
basis and allow them to be transferred so the quotas would go to firms which can use them
most effectively.
17.   The reform of the import regime, as outlined above, will benefit exporters. In
addition, we will strengthen and speed up the processing of the existing duty drawback scheme
for exporters. Such measures will enable us to limit export assistance payments, to no more
than MDen 150 million in 1997, and target them to smallholders only.
18.   On the institutional front, the Government will consolidate and streamline its trade
policy functions. We have discontinued the import quota administration functions of the
Ministry of Foreign Relations and will transfer all trade policy functions into one central
economic Ministry. Government will ensure that tariff setting and exemptions are properly
documented and codified. Also, a trade policy unit will be set up within one of the
Government's central economic Ministries to monitor the trade regime on a regular basis and
to assess any proposals for change in terms of its economy-wide effect. This unit will become
the focal point for all trade-related work in the country's accession to membership of the WTO
and the EU.



42
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 9
Reforming Agricultural Policy
19.   Reform of our agricultural policy will focus on: (a) reducing interventions in output
prices; (b) ending input subsidies; (c) limiting and reforming the operations of the Agency for
Strategic Reserves; and (d) re-orienting the functions of the Ministry of Agriculture away from
intervention and towards policy support for the private sector. These measures are intended to
stimulate efficiency in agricultural production and to confine the public agencies in agriculture
to supporting the development of the private sector. The private sector in agriculture in the
country is predominantly smallholder and relies very little on Government financial support.
20.   To reduce price intervention, the Government-guaranteed price for wheat in 1996 was
no greater than that paid in 1995 (i.e., MDen 10 per kg). The guaranteed prices for sugarbeet
and sunflower will now be eliminated. We will adopt a formula, satisfactory to the Bank,
linking guaranteed base prices for wheat and tobacco to world market prices so that such prices
shall not exceed 100 percent of the world market prices in 1997 and 70 percent thereafter.
Consistent with this change, the fixed retail price of bread has been amended to a price cap, in
preparation for the freeing of the price, when the anti-monopoly law, now under preparation,
is in place. Government-financed price premia for wheat, sugarbeet, sunflower, other oilseeds
and milk in 1996 did not exceed 1995 levels. As a next major step, the Government will
remove the legal obligation to award price premia and refrain from making such payments
from May 1, 1997. The Government will consult with Bank staff if it sees a need for such
premia under exceptional circumstances.
21.   The ending of input subsidies is now close at hand. In prior action, credit rebates were
eliminated in 1996. The 1997 budget incorporates a decision to eliminate the seed rebate.
22.   Changes in the operations of the Agency for Strategic Reserves will accompany these
other policy changes. We recognize that to-date the Agency's operations have been fulfilling
two functions, namely, commodity security and market intervention. The commodity security
function is one of great concern to the Government, given the supply uncertainties we have
had to endure in recent years, but the market intervention function is at odds with the strategy
to liberalize the agricultural market. We will re-orient the operation of the Agency to the
former and cease actions designed primarily as market interventions. This policy will be
developed further by undertaking a fundamental review, with independent external assistance if
required, of the approach to strategic reserves for the most critical commodities, including an
examination of alternative, cost-effective instruments with greater involvement of the private
sector.
23.   Meanwhile, the expenditure of the Agency was reduced from MDen 1,250 million in
1995 to MDen 670 million in 1996. For 1997, the Agency's allocation has been reduced
further, to MDen 520 million. The results of the above mentioned review will be used to
design a new program for the security operations for food, fuel and pharmaceuticals of the



43
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 9
Agency. The program would be implemented over a period not exceeding three years, with
any specific cost-saving measures to be implemented as quickly as possible.
24.   The role of the Ministry of Agriculture is being re-orientated away from intervention
and towards setting the market framework and strategic direction within which private farming
can flourish. This is the most important agenda item being set in the Ministry's recently
prepared Agricultural Development Strategy. As a key step, a review of the Ministry's
responsibilities and expenditure plan is under way, with emphasis on identifying those
functions (e.g. veterinary services) which can be managed and delivered by the private sector.
Where public involvement and expenditure is justified, approaches will be developed to target
assistance to where it is most needed, including to small farmers and herders in remote areas.
Privatizing Socially-owned Enterprises
25.   In the program to extend privatization, Parliament passed the Law for Transformnation
of Enterprises and Cooperatives with Social Capital that Manage Agricultural Land
(Agricultural Privatization Law) on April 12, 1996. Amongst other things, this law: (a) grants
the Privatization Agency (PA) the authority to approve privatization proposals, to reject
unsatisfactory submissions, and to initiate privatization where necessary; (b) permits small and
medium-sized enterprises no more than 6 months, and large enterprises no more than 12
months to submit their privatization plans; (c) mandates large enterprises, as part of the
privatization process, to prepare restructuring plans which must be approved by the Ministry
of Agriculture and the PA; and (d) facilitates the provision of leases for the use of state-owned
agriculture land.
26.   The Ministry of Agriculture and the PA have developed and issued guidelines on the
requirements to be met by the restructuring plans proposed by agro-kombinats. These
requirements include spin-off of non-core businesses (including hotels, social facilities, retail
units, transportation, milling, baking), and a separate valuation for privatization purposes of
all identified profit centers within large agro-kombinats. We expect that in the majority of
cases individual profit centers are likely to be offered for privatization as spin-off business
units; in all cases the the Ministry of Agriculture and the PA will actively review restructuring
plans to ensure they promote greater competition and market responsiveness in the agricultural
sector, including options for reorganizing "core farming enterprises" (i.e. that part of the
enterprise directly using land) on a more flexible basis.
27. To facilitate the privatization effort in agriculture, the Government, with technical
assistance from Japan, has established a small advisory team to assist agricultural enterprises in
preparing privatization plans and in reorganizing their businesses to adapt to changing market
conditions. This team is under the supervision of the PA.
28.   The PA, drawing on its own resources and the technical assistance it has arranged, will
encourage and assist in delivering a reasonably swift pace of privatization. At least 20



44
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 9
privatization plans, including those from 2 agro-kombinats with more than 200 employees,
have been submitted already to the PA. By the end of 1997 it is expected that privatization
contracts will be signed, or operations ceased and liquidation proceedings initiated, for at least
70 percent (a minimum of 170) of eligible enterprises in agriculture. This total will include at
least 3 agro-kombinats with more than 1,000 employees, and at least a further 17 with more
than 200 workers. Further, the PA will submit to the Bank a satisfactory plan to complete,
within six months of the second tranche release date, the outstanding privatizations or
liquidations. Satisfactory short-term leases for the use of state land (see below) should be in
place for all privatized farming enterprises.
29.   In implementing the provisions of the Agricultural Privatization Law, the Government
has developed guidelines, including model lease contracts, on the measures for interim rights
of use of state-owned land. These guidelines incorporate two key features. First, leases
granted to agro-kombinats during privatization will be for no more (and by the Law, no less)
than five years duration. The value of this concession to use state-owned agricultural land will
be accounted for as part of the overall valuation of the enterprise being prepared for
privatization. Second, at least 15 percent of state-owned agricultural land will be tendered
competitively. The competition will be managed by the Government, and will be open and
transparent to maximize the opportunities for potential bidders, particularly small private
farmers.
30.   Beyond these measures for interim use of state-owned agricultural land, we intend to
work intensively to implement new foundations for a freer and more active market in land. A
priority is to submit to Parliament a new Law on Land Use, targeted for final reading during
1997. This law will be based on the broad principles that: (i) restrictions on land use will be
limited only by standard planning and environmental considerations; (ii) an open and
transparent method will be used to transfer, within 5 years or less, state-owned land to the
private sector. The transfer may be through outright sale or secure long leases; (iii) land
transferred will be capable of further sale, lease or sub-lease, and can be used to take
mortgages.
31.   Accompanying these legislative developments, the Land Cadastre office will be
strengthened, in terms of completing its records on agricultural land and extending this system
to record and monitor the leases, and any liens, being entered into by newly privatized
enterprises. These records will be made available, at a nominal charge to cover the office's
administrative cost, for consultation by the public, without other restrictive conditions. Work
will continue on plans to extend land titling and devise new ways to resolve disputes on land
ownership, use and leasing.
32.   To strengthen the legal framework for private sector development, we are strongly
pursuing our schedule to restore previously nationalized assets to the private sector. The Law
on Denationalization will be put in place during 1997 and at the same time its provisions will
be publicized across the community. A central implementing unit and regional outposts will



45
ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 9
be established and staffed, and these units will commence processing initial claims made under
the law. We also intend to submit to Parliament in 1997 an Anti-Monopoly Law to control
against possible monopoly abuses which emerge during and beyond the transition to a market
economy.
33.     To further develop the basic legal structure for a market economy, a draft
Bankruptcy Law, which had been agreed with the Bank, received first reading in Parliament in
July 1996; a new Commercial Code was enacted in August 1996; and a new Law on Securities
Trading was enacted in February 1997. The Government has prepared a draft new Collateral
Law; we intend to process this draft expeditiously, aiming to have it enacted over the next six
to nine months. In pursuing our objective of improving the flexibility of the labor market, we
will enact amendments to the Employment Law this year to, among other features, abolish the
minimum unemployment benefit, reduce the maximum duration of unemployment benefits,
and allow benefit eligibility to be revoked for those refusing job offers. A draft incorporating
these amendments to the Employment Law has already been submitted to Parliament.
34.   Regarding completing the mainstream privatization program, some 800 enterprises
(from a total of 1,217) were privatized (or liquidation proceedings initiated) under the FESAC-
supported program. Building on this progress, and using the same legal framework,
privatization contracts have been signed now (or operations ceased and liquidation proceedings
initiated) for a cumulative total of at least 880 enterprises. By mid-1997, we expect that
contracts will be signed (or operations ceased and liquidation proceedings initiated) for a
cumulative total of at least 1,150 enterprises (around 95 percent of the identified set of
enterprises).
35.   Further steps will be taken to finish the agenda established under the Special
Restructuring Program (SRP). Already, privatization contracts have been signed, or
operations ceased and liquidation proceedings initiated, for a cumulative total of at least 40 of
the 123 business units derived from the SRP enterprises. Within this total, there are at least 3
of the largest 6 loss-makers which had majority state and/or social capital. By end-1997,
contracts will be signed, or operations ceased and liquidation proceedings initiated, for a
cumulative total of at least 110 of the 123 business units derived from the SRP enterprises.
Within this total, there will be at least 9 of the largest 10 loss-makers which have majority
state and/or social capital. In respect of the electricity and railway utilities (also under the
SRP), privatization contracts have been signed, or operations ceased and liquidation
proceedings initiated, for at least 4 business unit spin-offs from the two utilities, with at least
one unit from each utility. By the end of 1997, the same will be accomplished for all
identified business unit spin-offs. The PA will also ensure that at least 75 percent of the total
of any remaining state or socially-owned capital in SRP enterprises is offered on open sale to
private investors.



46
ANXI
Page 9 of 9
36. We believe the policies and actions described in this Letter will advance significantly our
country's economic reform program. Hence, on the basis of this Letter and the accompanying
policy matrix, we request World Bank support for our reform program through a Structural
Adjustment Loan in the amount of DM44.4 million and Credit in the amount of SDR20.6
million.
Yours sincerely,
Tald Fiti                              Ljube Trpeskd
Minister of Finance                Vice President of the Government
06t 14/Z



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 8
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN/CREDIT (SAL)
Policy Matrix
[   .    ediinn Ol~jecve   ;         M||sures Taken betore SAL        : Measures: arady Taken under    Measus0 for od: :        e
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _  _   _  _  _    ~~~~~~~~SAL                      _  _  _   _SAL_
1. MACROECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
A. Sustainable Macroeconomic     Standing agreement on a viable    Agreed macroeconomic policy       Maintain agreed macroeconomic
Framework.                    medium-term macroeconomic         framework in place.               policy framework.
policy framework.                                                                                   l
II. TRADE POLICY REFORMS (core conditions in italics)
A. Advance Liberalization of     Import licensing had been largely
Import Regime.                removed.
Items under quota had been        Remaining import quotas and
reduced from 16 to four percent of   barriers removed, except those
imported goods; and auction      justified on security grounds.
mechanisms had been established
for import items still subject to
quotas.
New unified Customs tariff in     New Customs tariff adopted,       Impement new Customs taniff,
Harmonized System, prepared with  unifying multiple import taxes and   with no exemptions except those
EU assistance, had received two   eliminating most discretionary    established: (a) by interational
readings in Parliament.           exemptions.                      treaties; and (b) for inports of
goods for hwnanitin  purposes.
Items under quota and/or special    Impkment the first stoge of the
levies converted to a schedule of    program for lberaiwton of
tariff plus surcharge; and       tatffs and/or surcharges on itemss
preparation of a program for     which were previously subjet to
further tariff liberalization on these  quotas and/or special lvies,
items has begun.                 which Gowernmnt shall have
prepared based on guidelins
agreed with the Bank.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 8
_________   _________ISAL    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.................
B. Strengthen Export Regime.    Exchange controls had been       Government agreed to improve the  Implement agreed improvements to
eliminated.                     operation of the existing duty   the operation of the duty drawback
drawback scheme.                scheme.
Exporters were accorded duty-free   Agreement to reduce any remaining  Export assistance payments
import provisions.              export assistance payments to no  constrained within agreed 1997
more than MDenlSO million in the   budget allocation.
1997 budget.
Remaining export quotas removed,  Introduce alternative methods of
except: (a) those justified on  allocating quotas set up by
grounds of public interest; and (b)   destination countries; e.g., sell
those set by destination countries.   quotas by auction.       |      a
C. Rationalize Trade            Policy coordination had been     Government discontinued the     Establish, in a centml economic
Institutions                improved within Govermment and   import quota administration      Minustr, a trade policy unit
between Government and the      fimctions of the Ministry of     charged to: (a) monitor the
private sector.                 Foreign Relations.               country's trade regime on regular
basis; (b) assess any proposals for
Plan under way to replace ad hoc    change in terms of effects on
tariff setting and exemptions with    wider economy; and (c) act as the
codified and systematic         focal point for all trade-related
arrangements.                   work for the country's accession to
membership of the WTO and the
EU.
Customs administration          Satisfactory progress reported on  Submit a revised Customs Code,
improvement was under way with    Customs modernization component  satisfactory to the Bank, to
extemal assistance.             of the Transit Facilitation Project.   Parliament.
Establish a valuations unit at
Customs HQ.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 8
I_______________                                  ]~~~            ~~~SAL           hIfA
mII. AGRICULTURAL POLICY REFORMS (core conditions in italics)
A. Reduce Price Intervention     Guaranteed base prices for        The 1996 guaranteed base price for  Adopt a fonmula, satisfactory to
agricultural products were        wheat did not exceed that for 1995  the Bank, linking guaranteed base
eliminated, except for wheat, sugar  (MDen 10/kg).                 prices for wheat and tobacco to
beet, sunflower and tobacco.                                        world market prices so that such
prices shaU not exceed 100
percent of the world market prices
in 1997 and 70 percent thereafter.
Eliminate guaranteed base prices
for sugarbeet and sunflower.
Govermment-financed price prenia   Spending on government-financed    Submit to the Bank evidence,         KD
for sugarbeet, sunflower and other   price premia for wheat, sugarbeet,  satisfactory to the Bank, that
oilseeds were reduced.            sunflower, other oilseeds and milk   Government is under no legal
in 1996 did not exceed 1995 level.  obligation to award price premia
for sugarbeet, sunflower, other
oilseeds and mik, and that all
necessary measures shall have
been taken to ensure that such
payments are ceased effective May
1,1997.
Retail prices for basic foods had  The fixed retail price of a standard   Gazette a decision that the price
been freed, except for standard loaf  loaf of bread was changed to a  cap on standard loaf of bread will
of bread.                        price cap at the current price level,  be removed when the anti-
in preparation for subsequent    monopoly law is in place.
freeing of price.



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 8
........ .....ure Tae.bfr....Mesrs  ayTae  ine .au   fr S~O"d Trancbe.
B. Elhiinate Input Subsidies.      Fertilizer subsidy had been          Agreement obtained to eliminate     Eliminate seed rebates.
eliminated.                         seed rebates from 1997.
Credit rebates for agricultural
production eliminated.
C. Reform Strategic Reserves       Budget allocation to the Agency for  1996 spending of ASR cut to         Spending on the ASR kept within
Scheme                          Strategic Reserves (ASR) was         MDen 670 million, from MDen         the 1997 budget allocation of
reduced in 1996.                    1,250 million in 1995.              MDen 520 million.
Agreement to conduct a full,        Submit to the BAnu  a plan,
independent review of the security   satsfactory to the Bank, for the
operations for food, fuel and       securty operations for food, fuel
l___________________  ____________________  pharmaceuticals of the ASR.                                      and phanaceuticals of the ASR.            o
D. Re-orient the Ministry of       A study of subsidies and protection   A review of the Ministry of        Agree on plan for Government to
Agriculture's role away         of five strategic commodities        Agriculture's responsibilities and  withdraw from services that are,
from intervention and           (wheat, sunflower seed, sugarbeet,   spending program was initiated,     or could be, provided by the
towards institutional support   fluid milk and fertilizer) was       with emphasis on identifying those   private sector, and to target its
for the private farming         prepared with external assistance.    elements which can be delivered by  justifiable expenditure in key
sector.                                                              the private sector; e.g., veterinary    areas.
The Institute of Economics in the   services.
country had prepared a
Govermment-commissioned long-
term agricultural strategy paper.
A study of selected agricultural
export products was in progress,
also with external assistance.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 8
IV. REFORMING SOCIALLY-OWNED ENTERPRISES (core conditions in italics)
A. Extend Privatization to      Preparation of enabling legislation,  Adoption by Parliament of the Law   Submission to Pariament for
Agriculture                  including FESAC conditions       for Privatization in Agriculture.  final reading a draft Law on
relating to legal framework, was                                 Land Use, saisfactory to the
under way.                                                       Bank.
The Privatization Agency and the    Submission of at least 20    Signing of contracts for
Ministry of Agriculture prepared a   prnvatization plans (or cessation of  privatizahon, or cessation of
list of eligible enterprises to be  operations and initiation of  operations  ord  cstiaton of
included in the agricultural    liquidation proceedings), including   liqidation proa edings, of at kast
privatization program.           those for at least two agricultural    70 percnt of enterprises eligible
enterprises with more than 200  for privaftizaon in accordance
employees.                      with the Law on Privatization of
Agriculturl Enterprises, dated
April 12, 1996; provided,
however, that such enterprises
shaU inclwde at kast 3 agro-
komnbinats with more than 1,000
employees, and at east an
additional 17 agro-kombinats with
more than 200 employees.
Develop a plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, to complete the remaining
privatization in agriculture within
six months.



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 8
Guidelines, including model lease    Confirmation that guidelines on
contracts, developed on measures    awarding of interim land rights
for interim rights of using state-  over state-owned agricultural land,
owned agricultural land, to be  through open competition, have
awarded through competitive     been implemented.
tendering.
Guidelines developed, and issued to
agro-kombinats, on requirements
and approach for breaking up agro-
kombinats prior to privatization.
Advisory team established under
supervision of the PA to assist
agricultural and related enterprises
in preparing privatization plans.                                    u
B. Strengthen Legal             Govermment formulated a strategy                                  Submission to Parliament of an
Framework for Private        for private sector development and                                Anti-monopoly Law, satisfactory
Sector Development.          enacted a New Commercial Code,                                   to the Bank.
with support from FESAC.
Draft Bankruptcy Law, agreed with                                Adoption of Bankruptcy Law,
the Bank, received first reading in                              sasfactory to the Bank.
Parliament.
Adoption of a new Law on
Collatera4 satactory to the
Bank.
Submision to Parliament of agreed   Adoption of agreed amendments to
amendments to the Employment    the Employment Law.
Law.
Adoption of new Law on Securities
Trading.



ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 8
[  R~.ns Objwtive   Ii  Meesuxe~ T~ke~i be7 'M SA    II   sure  led   a*nwe    I  esrsfrSmu Tramce.:
Land Cadastre's coverage of                                        Strengthen the Land Cadastre
agricultural land was well-                                        Office, improving the coverage of
advanced.                                                          its records, and extending
information stored to include
leases and liens.
Make Land Cadastre records fully
available to the public without
restriction, at a charge to recover
administrative costs.
The Law on Denationalization put
in place; its provisions publicized
across the community; a central
implementing unit and regional
outposts established and staffed;
processing of initial claims
commenced.
C. Complete the original         Privatization transactions had been   Privatization contracts signed, or    Sign contracts for the
mandate of the Privatization  completed, or liquidation         operations ceased and liquidation    privatization, or cease operations
Agency (PA)                   proceedings initiated, in the case of  proceedings initiated, for a  and initiate liquidation
800 of the 1,217 enterprises     cumulative total of at least 880 of   proceedings, for a cumulative total
covered in the Law on            the 1,217 enterprises covered in the  of at least 1,150 enterprises
Transformation of Social Capital    Privatization Law.             covered in the Privatization Law.
(the Privatization Law).
Divestitures of over 400 enterprises
under an earlier law were
___mconfirmed.



ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 8
.1!..SAL                                         Release.! SAL            I~~~~~~~~........
D. Complete privatization of       Government decided to initiate     Privatization contracts signed, or  Sgning of contracts for
enterprises under the          privatization of over 120 business    operations ceased and liquidation  privatization, or cessaton of
Special Restructuring          units from the 23 industrial        proceedings initiated, for a       operations and initiation of
Program (SRP enterprises).     enterprises participating in the    cumulative total of at least 40 of    liquidation proceedings, for a
SRP, plus around 10 spin-offs from   the 123 business units derived from   cwnuluve total of at least 110 of
the railways and electric utility.  the SRP enterprises; within this  the 123 business units derived
Over 100 privatization plans were   total, there were at least 3 of the    from SRP enterprises; provided
prepared and over 80 of these were  largest 6 loss-making enterprises.    that this total shalU include at
submitted to the PA.                                                  least 9 of the 10 enterprises
detenxined by agreement between
the Goverment and the Bank, as
Within the 23 SRP enterprises,                                        the Government's kargest loss-    |
downsizing was undertaken, with                                       making enterprises.               |
14,124 surplus employees (25% of
their original workforce) laid off.
Privatization contracts signed, or
operations ceased and liquidation  Sign contracts for the
proceedings initiated, for a total of   privatization, or cease operations
at least 4 business unit spin-offs  and initiate liquidation
from the railways and electric     proceedings, for all of the
utility, with at least one unit from    identified business unit spin-offs
each of the railways and electric  from the railways and electric
utility.                           utility.
At least 75 percent of the total of
any remaining state or socially-
owned capital in SRP enterprises
should be offered by the PA on
open sale to private investors.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 7
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
Policy measures completed under the FESAC
Reform  oIj.ctive    Measure  completed as FE ;AC Board candilions                  Meaaires completed as FrSAC second trwiche
candiflow"s
I. Macroeconomic       Agreed macroeconomic framework in place                      Agreed macroeconomic framework in place
stability
II. Adjustment         1. Continued isolation of SRP enterprises from the banking   1. Completion of implementation of approved cost-cutting plans
Program for            system, except for specific transaction-based, self-         by all SRP enterprises
Politically            liquidating trade credits, tightly linked to specific purchase
Sensitive              orders from creditworthy buyers.
Enterprises (the
SRP)
2. Substantial cost-cutting measures, through worker lay-offs,  2. Privatization of viable industrial enterprises as going  e
were completed, satisfactory to IDA.                         concerns, or liquidationlasset sale of unviable industrial
enterprises under implementation, satisfactory to IDA.
3. For the two utilities (electric power and railways)- increases   3. For the two utilities: tariffs have bemn increased further and
in tariffs, satisfactory to IDA.                             maintained in real terms to cover operating costs, interest
costs and part of investment costs; exceptions to the
electricity tariff schedules for specific industrial users will be
limited to 10 percent in the case of 110 kv users, and surplus
labor-shedding completed.
m.  Privatiztion       1. Ninety-one enterprises privatized, comprising 70 small, 16  1. Another 700 enterprises privatized or liquidated, comprising
medium and 5 large.                                          535 small, 125 medium, and 40 large.
2. Completion of review of all internal share privatization cases.  2. Frozen FX Deposit Scheme implemented in a manner
satisfactory to IDA.
3. Frozen FX Deposit Scheme operative according to           3. Offer for sale of 100,000 square meters of business premises
procedures, satisfactory to IDA.                             according to procedures satisfactory to IDA.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 7
Reform  obJecUvQ       Memure  eom*a'd as FESAC Bard condiUons                    Measurim  couipfred as FFSAC secovid Irmidche
condiliorm
4. Implementation of the scheme for sale of Government-owned   4. New Commercial Code in place.
business premises to the private sector started.           N.B. 7he Law on Denationalization and Restitution was
presented to Parliament in April 1996, but not yet
adopted. Waiver to this condition granted by the Board
on September 19, 1996.
5. New Commercial Code reached first reading in Parliament.    5. Subnission to Parliament of satisfactory draft Bankruptcy
Code and Law on Public Enterprises.
IV. Banking Reforms   1. Liquidation of BNT filed with courts and BNT's banking   1. Final settlement of dispute with banks on remaining
license revoked.                                           frozen foreign exchange deposits.
2. Most foreign exchange deposits and all foreign credits  2. Removal of all remaining foreign credits extended prior to
extended by the Paris Club creditors prior to April 30, 1992  April 30, 1992 from the balance sheets of banks.
removed from balance sheets of banks as of January 1, 1995.                                                         ao
3. Ten percent of Stopanska spun-off and privatized.       3. If needed to reach target size of Stopanska, further divestiture
and privatization of branches/assets.
4. Restoration of liquidity to the core Stopanska.         4. Core Stopanaka fully recapitalized, and privatized (53
percent) and private governance established.
5. Satisfactory prudential regulation on connected lending  5. Completion of prudential regulatory framework, and
adopted.                                                   enhancement of central bank enforcement powers,
satisfactory to IDA.
V. Social Safety Net   1. Submission to Bank of satisfactory draft Law on Labor   1. Revised Law on Labor Relations adopted.
Relations to reduce advance notice of termination of workers
to: (i) one month for individual and small-scale layoffs; and
(ii) three months for large-scale layoffs (greater than 150
workers per enterprise or five percent of the labor force in the
affected community).



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 7
Reform  objecdivw      MLaszres compleled as FESAC Board conditions                Measures compeletd s I FFSAC  exocid  nridime
conditions
2. Revenues were provided to clear arrears on unemployment  2. Labor Redeployment Fund, managed by the Privatization
compensation in first half of FY95.                         Agency, was established; a deposit of US$0.5 million
equivalent was made to finance active labor market services.
3. Plan, satisfactory to Bank, was submitted to bring the Pension  3. Payments on social assistance and unemployment
Fund into financial equilibrium in 1995 and protect low-    compensation not in arrears.
income pensioners.
4. Revised Pension and Disability Law adopted.



58
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 7
Elements of the Mainstream Privatization Program
1.     Under the 1993 Privatization Law, 1,217 industrial and commercial enterprises, with
about 230,000 employees were identified for divestiture. Of those enterprises, 113 are
classified as large enterprises, 274 as medium-sized and 830 as small.' They represented
about 75 percent of total employment in the formal enterprise sector and around 50 percent
of the assets, of which small enterprises accounted for 5 percent, medium-sized for 12
percent and large enterprises for 33 percent.2
2.     The Privatization Law of June 1993 permits various methods of privatization for these
enterprises including: (i) employee buyouts of at least 51 percent of appraised net book value,
at a generous discount and with highly favorable terms for payment3; (ii) sale of a part of an
enterprise at an auction or by direct agreement with a prospective purchaser; (iii) buy-out
through public offering of at least 51 percent of the value of the social capital; (iv) leveraged
buy-outs by a group of people who offer a development program for the enterprise; (v) issue
of shares for additional investment in the enterprise; (vi) debtlequity swaps and (vii)
liquidation of assets. The first two methods along with liquidation are applied to small
enterprises while all methods can be applied to large and medium-sized enterprises. At the
beginning of the process, the enterprise must automatically transfer 15 % of its social capital,
as non-voting shares, to the State Pension Fund. Following privatization, any residual social
capital is transferred to the Privatization Agency (PA) as preferred, non-voting shares which
must be offered to the public, as common shares, within a three month period. Cash
proceeds from share sales are distributed between the PA and the Government, with the PA
retaining its portion in order to cover operating expenses and the Government's using its
I According to the Law for Transformation of Enterprises with Social Capital, small enterprises are defined as
those which meet at least two of the following three criteria: (i) they have less than 50 employees; (ii) their annual
corporate income is less than 8,000 times the average wage in the economy; and (iii) their average assets are less than
6,000 times the average monthly wage in the economy. Medium enterprises have: (i) less than 250 employees; (ii)
corporate income less than 40,000 times the average monthly wage in the economy; and (iii) assets less than 30,000 times
the average monthly wage in the economy. All others are classified as large enterprises.
2 About 39% of the total assets in the formal enterprise sector belong to a few large State-owned enterprises,
operating as monopolies, in strategic sectors like electricity, railway transport and telecommunications.
3 Normally the discount is 30 percent plus 1 percent for each year of service. For social assets, financed by an
enterprise, such as restaurants and holiday resorts, the employees receive a discount of 50 percent plus 1 percent for each
year of service. In purchasing their shares, employees benefit from a two year grace period, after which the shares are
purchased in five annual installments with no interest assessed on the unpaid balance.



59
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 7
share to fund assistance to employees discharged as a result of transformation. In the event
of asset sales, the State Pension Fund will receive 15 percent of the cash proceeds.
3.    The privatization law also allows the use of frozen foreign exchange deposits toward
the purchase of enterprise shares, housing and business premises. The Government
recognized the potentially important role these deposits can play in absorbing the large
volume of assets which will be offered in the program, while, at the same time,
extinguishing claims on the Government created by its assumption of these deposit liabilities.
Pursuant to the privatization law, a Government decree that lays down the rules and
regulations for the swap of frozen foreign currency deposits for shares and other socially-
owned assets was issued in December 1994, and the scheme is now operative. This decree
permits accounts to be sold -- through participating banks -- and transferred to other accounts
(to allow for accumulation by strategic investors). Certificates issued to depositors are
generic (i.e., they can be applied toward the purchase of shares in any enterprise and the
purchase of business premises), but are restricted to exchange for shares or assets targeted
for privatization (to prevent the creation of quasi money).
4.    The privatization law includes measures to protect the interest of former owners of
socially-owned enterprises by requiring all enterprises to publish notice of their
transformation plans and calling for former owners (or their legal successors) to declare their
claims, which must be registered within 60 days of the announcement. The enterprise will
transfer shares to the PA for the amount claimed, and the PA will hold these shares on
behalf of the claimant until a more permanent solution is established under a Law on
Denationalization and Restitution, which is expected to be enacted by Parliament in the first
half of 1996.
5.    Though the privatization program was initiated in July 1993 and was to be completed
by the end of 1996, actual privatization transactions were slow in materializing. The delay
was in part because the Privatization Agency did not become fully operational until mid 1994
and also because the enterprises were given an excessive amount of time to submit their
privatization plans to the Agency: until December 1994, for small enterprises; until July
1995, for medium-sized enterprises; and until December 1995, for large enterprises. Thus,
by the end 1994 none had been privatized. Also, earlier employee share purchase
transactions, involving about 440 enterprises, under the 1989 Yugoslav law, were subjected
to a review by the Privatization Agency before they could be considered as final.
6.    Privatization picked up momentum in 1995 and continued apace in the first half of
1996. During the final quarter of 1995, over 100 enterprises each month were submitting



60
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 7
privatization plans to the Privatization Agency. By end-May 1996, 750 of the 1,217
enterprises covered by the 1993 law had been privatized and privatization was underway in
the case of another 338 enterprises. In addition, all of the employee share purchase
transactions in 440 enterprises, completed under the earlier law, had either been confirmed
or renegotiated. The 750 newly privatized enterprises employed around 100,000 workers.
While, the total net book value of the enterprises in the program, taken from published
accounts at end 1994, was around German DM 3.3 billion, the appraised net book value of
the privatized enterprises was around DM 1.5 billion, while those in the pipeline had an
appraised net book value of DM 2.5 billion4.
7.    To end-May 1996, insiders, including managers and employees, had purchased
approaching 70 percent of the total equity in privatized enterprises, of which 46 percent of
total equity was purchased through management buy-outs. In practice the residual shares
reverting to the Privatization Agency, following privatization, proved hard to sell to the
public and in September 1995 the terms for employee share purchases were made so
favorable that by year end these residual shares represented only about 8 percent of the total
equity in privatized enterprises.
8.    In addition to this mainstream initiative, the Government established a Special
Restructuring Program (SRP) to deal with 25 of the most politically sensitive, large loss-
making enterprises. The thrust of the SRP was to isolate these enterprises from new credit,
implement substantial downsizing, and break-up these conglomerates into smaller, free-
standing units to be privatized or liquidated as appropriate. The selected enterprises included
3 large agro-kombinats and 4 enterprises with substantial mining interests5.
9.     Substantial progress has been made in the SRP, notably in reducing labor force
complements by about one-third on average, and in creating around 125 subsidiary
enterprises from the 25 conglomerates. As at end-May 19966, some 38 subsidiaries had had
their privatization plans approved by the Privatization Commission, and a further 76 had
submitted privation plans to the PA, likely to be approved by the Privatization Commission.
In respect of the agro-kombinats and mining enterprises, however, there has been some
4 Certified appraisers prepare valuation reports for every enterprise undergoing privatization. The main method
used is the calculation of adjusted book value based on revalued fixed assets. In addition, for large enterprises, a net
book value is calculated on the basis of discounted future cash flows while for smaller enterprises there are short-cut
methods whereby the net book value is also determined using comparator measures of share price to earnings ratios.
5  The agro-kombinats being: Lozar, Zik Strumica, and Zik Crena Zvezda (Red Star); the mines being: Sasa,
Toranica, Zletevno Mining, and Fenimac.
6  Source - FESAC supervision mission report. July 1996.



61
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 7
hesitancy in action beyond employee lay-offs, in part due to the perceived lack of clarity in
the legal framework for privatization in these sectors.
10.   As noted above, however, there are some sectors of the economy which have been
left largely untouched by the privatization efforts. The 1993 Law contained the following
main exclusions:
(a)    public services (e.g. railways) and enterprises of special national interest (e.g.
telecoms);
(b)    enterprises or their subsidiaries designated as monopolies (e.g. electricity
utility);
(c)    enterprises using national water resources, forests, and state-held land.
In the application of the law, clause (c) has been interpreted liberally. In vertically
integrated agro-kombinats there are typically a number of essentially independent business
units (e.g. a hotel or retail operation as part of a larger farming and food processing
kombinat) which do not use state-held land. Such business units have not, however, been
slated for privatization, but rather have been exempted from the process. The overall effect
of clause (c) therefore has been to exclude the agricultural sector from privatization7.
7  The exception are those agricultural and mining enterprises in the SRP, but even in those cases privatization
is not yet complete.



62
Annex 4
Page 1 of 4
DATA ON THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
TABLE 1: SOCIALLY-OWNED AGRICULTURAL ENTERPRISES
Number  Employees   Average size
(employees)
Agro-kombinats        163       23,496            144
Coopertaive            51        2,897             57
Total                 214       26,393            123
TABLE 2: EMPLOYMENT PATTERNS IN SOCIALLY-OWNED AGRICULTURAL
ENTERPRISES
Size      Agro-       % of   Cooperatives    % of          All       % of
kombinats   total                    total    enterprises    total
0-19             57      35%              19      44%            76      37%
20-49            20       12%             12      28%            32      16%
50-99            23      14%               6      14%            29      14%
100-199          26      16%               3       7%            29      14%
200-499          23       14%              2       5%            25      12%
500-999           7       4%               1       2%             8       4%
1000+             5       3%                                      5       2%
All             161     100%              43     100%           204    100%



63                                   Annex 4
Page 2 of 4
TABLE 3: SOCIALLY-OWNED AGRICULTURAL
ENTERPRISES BY SIZE OF HOLDING
Size of holding   Number of agro-   Percentage of agro-
hectares        enterprises     enterprises in class
0-49                73                 34%
50-99                 16                 7%
100499                 40                 18%
500-999                 19                 9%
1000-2499                 23                11%
25004999                  16                 7%
5000+                  30                14%
All                          217               100%
median size: approximately 300 hectares
average size: approximately 2,800 hectares
TABLE 4: LAND USE AND EMPLOYMENT IN SOCIALLY
-OWNED AGRICULTURAL ENTERPRISES
Size range                 Total
hectares    Land (hectares)    Full-time workers
<50                419              1,137
50-100                963               797
100-300              5,383             1,630
300-500              4,248              1,932
500-1000              9,449              1,457
1000-2500             19,518             2,425
2500-5000             32,440              5,157
>5000             107,826             10,531
Total                 180,246            25,066



64                                   Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
TABLE 5: REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF SOCIALLY-OWNED
AGRICULTURAL ENTERPRISES
Region        % of numbers of   Land used      Numbers
agro-enterprises    (hectares)    employed
Skopje-Kumanovo               15%         20,515        3,179
East Region                    7%         16,536        1,464
Mediterranean                 47%         84,963       13,558
Pelagonija                    15%         49,427        4,531
Great Lakes                    6%          3,351        1,223
West Region                   11%          5,454         1,111
Total                                    180,246       25,066
TABLE 6: REGIONAL CONCENTRATION OF SOCIALLY-OVNED
AGRICULTURAL ENTERPRISES (SOA)
Agri-region        Population 1991   Households per SOA    Ag. Hold. per SOA
SkopjeKumanovo             698,584                12,937                  505
East Region                 99,359                 3,964                   664
Mediterranean              447,115                 2,661                   361
Pelagonija                 246,766                 4,487                   419
Great Lakes                152,407                 7,257                  704
West Region                389,733                10,256                   922
National                 2,033,964                 5,634                  492
TABLE 7: PRIVATE FARMS BY LAND-HOLDING
Size of holding   Percentage of private
hectares        farms in class
0-2                 68%
2-5                 24%
5-10                  7%
10+                   1%
Average size: 2.07 hectares



65                                    Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
TABLE 8: AGRO-ENTERPRISES
TRADING POSMON (YEAR
ENDING DECEMBER 1994)
Denars       US$
(millions)    millions
Revenues       15,513        358
Assets        69,048        1,594
Losses          2,986         69
Profits          101          2.3
Memo:
net losses as % of gross revenue: 18.5%
revenue per employee: 563,484 denars ($13,000)
net losses per employee: 104,791 ($2,420)
Source: Privatization Agency data
TABLE 9: LARGEST AGRO-ENTERPRISES BY EMPLOYMENT
I    Name of enterprise       Opstina     Employment
1  Zik "Ovce pole"            Sv Nikole            2,419
2  Tikves                     Kavadarci            1,837
3  Pelagonija                 Bitola               1,789
4  Zik "Vinojug"              Gevgelija            1,764
5  Zik "Crvena zvezda"-Stip   Stip                 1,486
6  Zik "Strumica"             Strumica             1,463
7  Kumanovo-Zik               Kumanovo             1,448
8  Zik "Povardarie"           Negotino             1,172
9  Lozar                      Titov Veles          1,094
10  Anska reka                 Valandovo              668
11  Agroplod                   Resen                  667
12  Kocansko Pole              Kocani                 530
Sub-total                                                16,357



66
Annex 5
Page lof 1
Institutional Capacity for Privatization - the Privatization Agency
1.   Institutional capacity to oversee the privatization process is spearheaded by the
Privatization Agency (PA), which became operational in November 1993. Staffed by a total
of 30 professionals (and 15 support staff), the PA has successfully kept the program on
track, including meeting the first and second tranche FESAC conditions. The Agricultural
Privatization Law (April 1996) appoints the PA to extend its existing remit and role to cover
agricultural privatization. The PA's expertise in overseeing the privatization effort to date
has enabled it to take a lead role in designing the details of rolling out the program to
agriculture. The Ministry of Agriculture will assist in advising on the restructuring of the
largest agro-kombinats and in monitoring developments and providing information on the
sector.
2.    The PA has already received substantial technical assistance financed by IDA (Social
Reform and Technical Assistance Credit), USAID, and other bilateral donors. Further
specific actions will be required, however, to train personnel and enhance the capacity of the
PA to tackle the specialized issues raised in the extension of this program, such as asset
valuation in agriculture. Four complementary initiatives are expected to address this
concern:
*     an advisor on agricultural business has been fielded to advise on designing
specific strategies to cope with possible monopolistic and other market
distortions in the sector which become more apparent during privatization;
*     Japan has approved a PHRD grant (US$810,000) primarily for funding
business and privatization advisers to help staff an Agro-Enterprise Assistance
Unit (AEAU) within the Privatization Agency. A competitive tendering
process was completed in September 1996, resulting in the appointment of
international experts, with local consultants to staff the AEAU. The
AEAU will take a lead role in actively seeking out socially-owned agro-
kombinats which require and will properly use technical assistance in
preparing their privatization plans, and in refocusing their operations in the
new market environment;
*     EC PHARE has been approached to provide further technical assistance to
the Privatization Agency;
*     USAID has financed the first stages of analysis of land reform. Further work
is to be carried out, with funding under the PHRD grant, and possibly from
USAID and other bilateral donors.



67
SCHEDULE B
Page 1 of 1
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND CREDIT (SAL)
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Proceeds of the loan and credit will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation
of the adjustment program, including compliance with stipulated tranche release conditions
and maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework. In accordance with the Board
decision dated February 1, 1996 on "Simplifying Disbursements under SALs", disbursements
will not be linked to specific purchases, and, hence, there will be no procurement
requirements.
As each tranche is released, the National Bank of Macedonia (NBM), as authorized
by the Government, will submit a simplified withdrawal application, against which the
Bank/IDA will disburse the loan/credit proceeds for the Ministry's use. For this purpose,
the Ministry of Finance will open and maintain a Deposit Account in the NBM.



68
SCEOEDULE C
Page 1 of 1
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit (SAL)
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a)   Time taken to prepare:                 10 months
(b)   Prepared by:                           H. Fazel (Sr. Economist/Task Manager)
T. O'Brien (Economist, Privatization)
C. Woodruff (PSD Specialist)
C. Antholt (Sr. Agriculturalist)
M. Herman (Sr. Agricultural Economist)
(c)   Identification mission:                November 1995
(d)   Pre-appraisal mission:                 January 1996
(e)   Appraisal mission:                     June 1996
(f)    Negotiations:                         September 1996
and March 1997
(g)   Expected effectiveness date:           May 1997
(h)   Relevant ICRs and PPARs:               Not Applicable



SCHEDULE D
Page 1 of 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN FYR MACEDONIA
(In Million US dollars)
A. IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(As of April 3, 1997)
Difference Between
Onginal Amount m US$ Millions                                      actual
Loan or Credit   Fiscal                                                                                                                                               and expected
Project ID         No           Year                 Borrower                          Purpose                 IBRD            IDA          Cancellations       Undisbursed       Disbursements at
Number of Closed Loans/credits 4
MK-PE-8407       L38680            1995    FYRMACEDONIA                        TRANSIT FACILITATION                   24.00           0.00                0 00              2 00                    -7.67
MK-PE-38092    C27220              1995    GOVERNMvENTOFFYR                     SOCIALREFORM                            0.00         1400                 000               8.18                    598
MACEDON
MK-PE-43447    L40150              1996    FYRMACEDONIA                         PRIVATESECTORDVPMT                     12.00          000                  000             1092                      000
MK-PE-36089    C28890              1996    GOVT. OFFYRM                        HEALTHSECTORTRANSI                       0.00         1690                 0.00             16.15                     -.25
MK-PE-10001    C28630              1996    FYR MACEDONIA                       PRIV. FARMER SUPPORT                     0.00          7.90                0.00              6 98                     -.54
Total                                                                                                                 36.00          38 80                0.00             44 23
Active Loans          Closed Loans                Total                                                                                                          tO
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA)                                27.33                   165 01                   192.34
of which has been repaid                                   0 00                      3.19                    3 19
Total now held by IBRD and IDA.                               74 80                   165.44                  240.24
Amount sold                                                    0.00                     0 00                     0.00
Of which repaid                                              0 00                     0 00                     0.00
Total Undisbursed                                             44 23                     0.00                   44 23
a Intended disbursements to date mninus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b.  Rating of 14 see OD 13 05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Forrn 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system will be used (HS = hsghly Satisfactory, S =
satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) see proposed Improvements m Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994
c Following the FY94 ARPP, "Irnplementation Progress' will be reported here.
B. IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
(As of April 3, 1997)
Conmitted                                           Disbursed
----IFC----
FY Approval                  Company                     Loan         Equity         Quasi        Pantic      Loan        Eqity        Quasi       Partic
Tbere are no IFC commitments in the country yet.



70                                    ~~~~~~SCHEDULE E
70                                       ~~~~~~~~~~Page 1 of 2
FYR of Macedonia at a glance
euroe    6Lwear-
POVEIRTY and SOCIAL                            Ma*ol%        CnftMidclo-
FYR      Asia  IncoMe.      Development dlamond*
Populationi mid-1995 (millins)                         2.1      488    1,154,
GNP pera capta'1995(LUSS)                              840    12,240    1,700                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (bilIons UiS$)                                1.8    1,093    1,962
Average anntual growth, 1990-85
PopulatIon ()0.9                                                 DA       1.4     GNP                             Gross
Labor force (%)                   1.4       0.6 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    per                      primary
Most recent estimate (latest yoar availab/e s/nc 19509)                            capita                     enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urbain population (% of total population)               60       Ss        56
Ufe expectancy at birth (year)                          73       68        67~
Infant mnoitality (per 1,000 live births)               23       23        38               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children) undor 5)
Access to safe water (% of population)                   .         .       78
Illiteracy (% of populatio age 1,5+)                                          I             McdnaFY
Gross prinmry enrollfment (% oftsch6oolag poplaton      87       97       10            -    aeona  Y
male                                                  a8   ~ 97         106               Lower-middle-Income group
Female                                                87       97       101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1986      11994    1996
Economic ratloe*
GOP (billions US$)                              ,        .       2.9      3.7
Gross domestic investment/GOP                                   15.. iA  17.3             Oens o  cnm
Exports Of goods and non-factor servitces/GOP   .        .      44.0    37.2Opnesoecom
Gross domestic savingsiGDP                     ..        .        .4      7.5
Gross national savlngsfGDP                      .        .       6A4      9.8
Current account balance/G13P                    ..       .       9.0    -7.5
Interest paymnent%/GDP                          .        ,       3.s      1.8     Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GQP                                 ..        .      30,9     34,21
Total debt sevoelex"poors                      ..        ..     12.7    15.4:
Present value of debt/GOP                       ..       .,     627
Present value of debt/exports                  ..        ..     68.                            nebens
1975-84  1985.86     1994     199   1996.06
(average annual growth)                                                              -MacedoDnia, FYR
GOP                                    ..       .      4.0      -1.4      4.8
GNP per capita                        ..5                           39                     Lower-mkddle-lncome group
Etcportsof goods atd nfts              .             -11.2     -1164      7.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985     1994      1996
(% of GDP)                                                                         Growth rates of output and Investment %
Agriculture                                     .        ..     14.8    15.4      20
Industry                                        .        ..     47.2    43.96
Manufacturing                                 .        ..     40.4    37.1 
Services                                        .        ..     38.0    40.7    -20
Private consumption                             .        ..     73.6    73.1    -40
General government consumption                  .        ..     20.0    19.4                 _ D                O
Imports of goods and non-factor services        .        ..     53.0     47.0              - O 
1975484  1985-95     1994     1995
(average annual growfh)                                                           Growth rates of exports and Imports t%)
Agriculture                                     .        ..      6.9      4.5
Industry                                        ...            -10.4     -9.2         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Manufacturing                                 .         .     -10.5    -111.0     0
Services                                        .        ..    -12.1      2.2     .0      g
Private consumption                             .        ..      4.7    -2.3       0
General government consumption                  .        ..    -10.0    -4.       -i
Gross domestic investment                       .               -9.1     10.8    .20
Imports of goods and non-factor services        .        ..     -3.4    -12.6ExotImrs
Gross national product                         ..        .       4.0     -1.4                  E~op
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



SCHEDULE E
71                                                         Page 2 of 2
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1904      1996
Domestic prices                                                                      Inflation 1%)
(% change)                                                                           2000
Consumer prices                                                  121.9      16.0    isoA
Implicit GDP deflator                                            126.2      15.9    o0o-
Govemment ffnance                                                                                             so0
(% of GDP)                                                                             o      go   DI   92   03   04   05
Current revenue                                                   51.0      45.3
Current budget balance                                             0.7       2.4                    GDP def  -        CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                           -3.2     -0.9
TRADE
1976     1985      1994     1996
(millions US$)                                                                         xport and Import lavels {mill US
Total exports (fob)                                              1,086    1,204      2,000
n.a.
n.a.                                            ......                             1,000
Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                              .         ..    1,518    1,724      1 000
Food                                            .        ..      243
Fuel and energy                                 .        ..      141        ..
Capital goods                                   ...              247                    __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Export price index (1987=100)                                                             09        91  92  93  94  95
Import price index (1987=100)                    .                                                 Exports     Imports
Terms of trade (1987= 100)                       ..       ..        ..        ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1994     1996
(millions US$)                                                                       Current account balance to GOP ratio t%l
Exports of goods and non-factor services                         1,258    1,389       o
Imports of goods and non-factor services                         1,600    1,824       0 9  I        DI   L9.,    3  i   05
Resource balance                                                  -342     -435              l
Net factor income                                                  -94      -46
Net current transfers                                              179      200       s      
Current account balance,
after official transfers                                        -257      -281
Financing items (net)                                              303      382
Changes in net reserves                                            -46     -101      -10 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)              ..       ..       170      280
Conversion rate (locaI/USS)                                       43.3     38.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1994     1995
(millions US$)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. US$1
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                             1,143    1,275
IBRD                                                             93        86                  G      A
IDA                                                              42        84                 165    86      B
Total debt service                                                 220       73                                  57
IBRD                                                            136        27
IDA                                                               0         0 0  0
Composition of net resource flowvs                                                         F                       149
Official grants                                                  44        27          324
Official creditors                                               -24      -25
Private credilors                                                -15      -19
Foreign direct investment                                        24        13                             E
Portfolio equity                                                  0         3                            410
World Bank program
Commitments                                                      80       123      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                                    80        62      B - IDA    C - Other multitlateral F - Private
Principal repayments                                             104       19      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                      ..       ..       -24       43
Interest payments                                                32         8
Net transfers                                                    -56       35
International Economics Department and ECICO                                                                       10/24/96






FED. REP. OF  YUGOSLAVIA                             &-'IBD251
N   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 3o~~~~~$                                          (J                 / ~~~~~~~~~FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC
(SERBIA/MONTENEGRO)  ,<~~1                                                                              9OF
Gob,ca                                                                                                                                     MAEO A
Pol.nkr, ~  \,uesheoo                -  B U L G  A R I A
/>  >                    ~~~~~~~~~~~Kumano,o    -- -'-
-J   .  N              *                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Osogc''"-k                       -                                              Major cities
Je~~~~~~~onooce    *                2085.                                                                   * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Selected cities
R                                       BLickooce                                 'K
*  -~~~~~~~~~tetovo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ---                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~ National Capital
2                                                  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                      Primary road%
0                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Valley                                                               -        - Secondary roads
2764. ~~~~~~osrsvor                                                                                     I                                   -~~~~~~~~~--------~~~~~~- oElectrified railroads
.JA   ~~~~~~~~  Kitka  >0                                                                                               ---+----'--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  O~~ther railroads
00 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Veles                                                                                       4/                                               Ai rports
/ake  2540.                                                               >                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50     Spot elevations in meters
N                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
A-                                                                                    74~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~International 6udre
Debar  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~r~~~~,                                                      Strumica
N  ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ooodo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K rci              4
0  Esurevo   A                                                                         o'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l,s~~~~~  /*  0       5      30 KILOMETERS
786,~                      L-
Prilep                                                        Lake3 MLE
4N                                                                                                            D o -raSTE                                      h.- boh,ne -ol,r. v-poe,.o,, o, pod oo Th  .~  ~  -
*LlTCoohd ~~~~~~                                            -                                                Ov~~~~ror,                                      cho.voor~~IL  hsup~dosca',epotn-y -,ry, .Wo-d3oor
-                                                                                      0'    /~~~~~~~~
u   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                         ISILOVAK REP r--J   UKAINE -N
0 ,                                                                                   1 AUSTRIA                                      4
~~~    ? ~ ~    GP
2c~2v    stoia                                      GREE K,-eniY //                                                                                      ROMANIA
[  --   FIo.snoe                                                                                           S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERZEOCSTAC -  FED REF
---c2                                          Lake                              ~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OF  -  - 
SC/C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ YU[Oo<-0,                                                            TGOSLAVIA
j                                                                                                                                             B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    UL QARIA
ALB A N IA            K.rce                                                                                                                   TTeSCAflICL,, Yu~
C'                              -                                                                                Ai5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1ANIA~
'                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GREECE  TU7 E
-                  ~~~~~~~Therma,kos
Kolpo  W-,
AUGUST 1996









IMAGING
Report No.: P       6976   MK
Type:     PR



