Page  1
CONFORMED COPY  
CREDIT NUMBER 2949 MK
Development Credit Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
(THE BORROWER)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(THE ASSOCIATION)
Dated May 12, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2949 MK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 12, 1997, between the Borrower and the Association.
WHEREAS: (A)  The Association has received a letter dated April 2, 1997, from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; 
(B)
The Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance in support of the Program, 
and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (the Loan 
Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal 
amount equal to forty four million four hundred thousand Deutsche Marks 
(DEM44,400,000) (the Loan); and
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit 
Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.";
(b)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(c)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit 
account specified in Section 
2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.;
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of 
these General Conditions.  Except as the 
Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) 
on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for 
any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, 
is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of 
the Charter of the United Nations”;
(e)
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)
Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association of their  
respective obligations  under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit";  and
(g)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“agro-kombinat” means an agricultural enterprise or cooperative 
established under the laws of the Borrower;
(b)
“Agency for Strategic Reserves” means the Agency for Strategic Reserves 
within the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy.
(c)
“Customs Tariff” means the customs tariff adopted by the Parliament of 
the Borrower and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on July 31, 1996.
(d)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of  
his Agreement; and
Page  3
(e)
“SRP Enterprises” means enterprises earmarked for privatization in 
accordance with a Special Restructuring Program, adopted by the Parliament of the 
Borrower on January 17, 1995.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 20,600,000).
Section 2.02.  (a)  The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter 
maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be 
deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account.
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association.  Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of SDR 16,500,000 equivalent, unless the Association shall be satisfied, 
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on 
evidence satisfactory to the Association: (i) with the progress achieved by the 
Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (ii) that the actions described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been taken, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association; and (iii)  that the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program as determined on the basis of indicators 
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association. If, after said exchange of views, the 
Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and 
actions taken are not satisfactory, and, within 90 days after such notice, the 
Borrower shall have not achieved progress or taken actions satisfactory to the 
Association, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Page  4
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semi-annually on 
April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 2007 and ending February 1, 2032. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2017 shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
         (b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred,   provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
Page  5
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02.  Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, 
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01.  The following event is specified as an additional condition to 
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Dame Gruev 14
91000 Skopje
Telex:
51 119
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  6
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE BORROWER
By /s/ Ljubica Z. Acevska
Authorized Representative
THE ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under a loan or another credit;
3.
expenditures for goods in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United 
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   --
Alcoholic beverages
121
   --
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   --
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   --
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   --
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked  or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof, fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated 
for
Page  7
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch cases)
and goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares 
(including set gems)
971
   --
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores 
and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph, the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); and
6.
in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank 
or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
1.
Implementation of the new customs tariff with no exemptions except those 
established: (i) by international treaties; and (ii) for imports of goods for 
humanitarian purposes.
2.
Implementation of the first stage of the program for liberalization of tariffs 
and/or surcharges on items which were previously subject to quotas and/or special 
levies, which the Borrower shall have prepared based on guidelines agreed with the 
Association.
3.
Establishment of a trade policy unit within a central economic Ministry of the 
Borrower.
4.
Adoption of a formula, satisfactory to the Association, linking guaranteed base 
prices for wheat and tobacco to world market prices so that such prices shall not 
exceed 100 percent of the world market prices in 1997 and 70 percent thereafter.
5.
Elimination of guaranteed base prices for sugar beet and sunflower.
6.
Submission to the Association of evidence, satisfactory to the Association that 
the Borrower is under no legal obligation to award price premia for sugar beet, 
sunflower, other oilseeds and milk, and that all necessary measures shall have been 
taken to ensure that such payments are ceased, effective May 1, 1997.
7.
Submission to the Association of a plan, satisfactory to the Association, for 
the security operations for food, fuel and pharmaceuticals of the Agency for Strategic 
Reserves.
8.
Submission to Parliament of the Borrower for final reading of a Law on Land Use, 
satisfactory to the Association.
9.
Signing of contracts for the privatization, or cessation of operations and 
initiation of liquidation proceedings, of at least 70 percent of enterprises eligible 
for privatization in accordance with the Law on Privatization of Agricultural 
Enterprises, dated April 12, 1996; provided, however, that such enterprises shall 
include at least three (3) agro-kombinats with more than 1,000 employees and at least 
an additional seventeen (17) agro-kombinats with more than 200 employees. 
Page  8
10.
Signing of contracts for the privatization, or cessation of operations and 
initiation of liquidation proceedings, of a cumulative total of at least 110 business 
units derived from SRP Enterprises; provided, that this total shall include at least 9 
of the 10 enterprises determined by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association, as the Borrower’s largest loss-making enterprises.
11.
Adoption by the Parliament of the Borrower of (i) a new Bankruptcy Law; and (ii) 
a new Collateral Law, in each case satisfactory to the Association.
