Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14729
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2936-HU)
JUNE 27, 1995
Agriculture and Urban Development Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Hungarian Forints (HUF)
1988 US$ I = HUF  50.4
1989 US$ I = HUF  59.1
1990 US$ 1= HUF  63.2
1991 US$ I = HUF  74.7
1992 US$ 1 = HUF  79.0
1993 US$ I = HUF  91.9
1994 US$ I = HUF 105.1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(metric)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGROBER        Agricultural Construction and Engineering Firm
AMP            Agroprocessing Modernization Project
AMPO           Agroprocessing Modernization Project Office
CMEA           Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
EFSAL          Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
EU             European Union
FRR            Financial Rate of Return
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
MHB            Hungarian Credit Bank
MOA            Ministry of Agriculture
MOF            Ministry of Finance
NBH            National Bank of Hungary
OKHB           Commercial and Credit Bank
PBs            Participating Banks
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SPA            State Property Agency



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(Loan 2936-HU)
CONTENTS
Preface  .1........................................................    i
Evaluation Summary   ................................................   iii
Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment  .............                              ..1.................. 
A.  Project Objectives  ...........................................    1
B.  Evaluation of Objectives  .......................................    1
C.  Achievement of Project Objectives .................................    2
D.  Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation   ....                          . .   5
E.  Project Sustainability   .........................................   6
F. Bank Performance  ...........................................   7
G.  Borrower Performance  ........................................   8
H. Assessment of Outcome ......................                                                                       8
I.  Future Operation   ............................................   9
J.  Key Lessons Learned   .........................................   9
Part II: Statistical Annexes
Table 1:  Sunmmary of Assessments  ..................................    12
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans  .....................................    13
Table 3:  Project Timetable .......................................    13
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual  ..............    14
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation   .......................    14
T'able 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation  ...........................    15
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project .................................    15
Table 8A:  Project Costs   ........................................    16
Table 8B:  Project Financing  ...........                                 ..........................    16
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits   ...............................    17
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .................................    18
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements   ..........                                   .......    19
Table 12:  Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs   ..............................    19
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions  .. ..............................   20
Appendices:
A. Aide-Memoire of ICR Initiation Mission
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
C. Map - IBRD No. 27107
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(Loan 2936-HU)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agroprocessing Modernization
Project (AMP) in Hungary, for which an IBRD loan in the amount of US$70 million equivalent was
approved on May 5, 1988; signed on June 2, 1988; and made effective on August 10, 1988.
At the Borrower's request, an amount of US$20 million equivalent was cancelled on October 12,
1993. The loan closed, as originally scheduled, on June 30, 1994, and the last disbursement from the
loan account was made on October 28, 1994. The final amount utilized was US$48.144 million
equivalent and the unutilized balance of US$1.856 million was cancelled on October 31, 1994.
The ICR was prepared in the Agriculture and Urban Development Operations Division of the
Central Europe Department (Country Department II) in the Europe and Central Asia Region. The Task
Manager is Kishore Nadkarni; the report was reviewed by Rory O'Sullivan, Division Chief and Jane
Loos, Project Adviser. The Borrower-the National Bank of Hungary (NBH)-and the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) provided written contributions. A summary, jointly prepared by MOA and NBH,
is included as an Appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR was begun in the last supervision mission in October 1993 and elaborated
further during the Bank's completion mission in August 1994. It is based on material in the project files,
discussions with relevant NBH and MOA officials, interviews with representatives of the participating
banks, and with selected agencies and subborrowers. The Borrower contributed in the preparation of the
ICR by: (i) discussing major points included in the report; (ii) providing information on the credit line
and institutional components; (iii) coordinating collection of necessary data; and (iv) providing its section
of the report.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(Loan 2936-HU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
i.    Since lending to Hungary began in 1983, the Bank's strategy of assistance has focussed on
supporting the country's program of structural adjustment to make the economy more efficient, flexible,
market responsive and competitive in external markets. In the agricultural sector, the Agroprocessing
Modernization Project was preceded by Bank operations to improve efficiency and competitiveness in
grain storage and farm mechanization; production and marketing of livestock and meat products; and crop
production. It was followed by two ongoing operations to support the growth of private, new rural
investors and to strengthen the food and non-food consumer goods marketing and distribution systems,
respectively.
PROJECT OBJECTIvES AND COMPONENTS
ii.    Objectives. The development objectives of the Agroprocessing Modernization Project (AMP) were
to enhance the international competitiveness of Hungarian agroprocessed exports and increase the
efficiency of production and effectiveness of marketing of agroprocessed products by: (a) increasing
earnings of agroprocessed and forestry exports, particularly to the convertible currency markets, by
improving the quality and marketing of exports; (b) improving the efficiency of operations of enterprises
in the agroprocessing subsector by reducing their unit costs of operations and improving their
productivity; and (c) creating a more effective business climate in the agroprocessing subsector in line
with macroeconomic price and tax reforms (para. 1).
iii.    Components. The main project components were: (a) a US$60 million equivalent line of credit;
(b) an institutional component to upgrade support services to agroprocessing enterprises including: (i)
export trade promotion and marketing; (ii) training in management and marketing; (iii) grading and
quality control of raw materials and final products; and (iv) research and development; and (c) a sector
policy component consisting of: (i) a phased reduction of agricultural subsidies; (ii) an action program
for improvements in the poultry industry; and (iii) studies leading to the modernization and restructuring
of the glass and metal container industries relevant to agroprocessed products (para. 2).
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
iv.    Achievement of Objectives. In 1988, when the loan for the project was approved, there was no
consensus that radical change was the only solution. Bank operations focused therefore on securing gains
in selected subsectors, chosen on an assessment of their potential comparative advantage, through
improvement in the productivity and efficiency of state-owned enterprises. Although the project's goals
and objectives were realistic in the circumstances prevailing in Hungary in 1988 at the time of project



- iv -
conception and preparation, they were overtaken by the rapid and sweeping changes that occurred in East
and Central Europe following the collapse of communism and the abrupt demise of the CMEA. These
changes included the accelerated program of macroeconomic and structural reform undertaken in 1990
by Hungary's first democratically elected Government under which foreign trade was largely liberalized,
prices were freed, subsidies to consumers and producers drastically reduced, and progress made in raising
the private sector's contribution to GDP to more than 50 percent. These changes had major consequences
for the project's development impact, particularly in regard to the attainment of the original financial
objectives of increasing convertible currency export earnings and improving the productivity and
efficiency of medium to large agroprocessing enterprises. Nevertheless, this was counterbalanced to some
extent by the project's success in supporting the Government's evolving priorities of promoting the
growth of new, private investors in agroprocessing. The project's institutional development objectives
were largely met with the successful establishment of an Agromarketing Office to assist in the promotion
of agroprocessed exports; upgrading of the skills and facilities at leading packaging and quality
information centers; and modernization of equipment, instrumentation and facilities at selected product
testing and certification laboratories. Project-supported activities have helped the institutions to enhance
their market relevance and to increase the extent of their self-financing. Achievement of the project's
sectoral objectives was mixed. Importantly, in the area of agricultural subsidies, there were dramatic
reductions in the level of subsidies (as a share of GDP) in the early years of the project which, however,
the Government was not able to maintain in the face of external factors, such as the years of successive
droughts. While subsidies have increased as a result, overall they remain at substantially lower levels,
at around 2 percent of GDP as compared to 8 percent in 1987 (paras. 6 to 22).
v.     Major Factors Affecting the Project. The above factors and the sudden shift in Hungary from
gradual reform of the socialist system to a market system altered very substantially the original parameters
of the project. Factors beyond the Government's control included the major changes that occurred in
CMEA markets after 1990 which were critical for many Hungarian exporters who had oriented their
production to the increasing trade in convertible currency within CMEA markets, and who were
subsequently unable to switch their production to the more demanding markets of the west without
substantial additional investments. This was further compounded by the deleterious effects of an unusual
period of three successive years of drought which severely affected agricultural production, thereby
reducing product quality and increasing unit costs of production for processors. Changes ensuing in the
early years of the Government's implementation of its economic reform program also had, on balance,
the effect of reducing the demand on the part of medium to large enterprises for undertaking investments,
resulting from a combination of factors including: the sharp contraction in industrial output, real GDP
and aggregate fixed investment (despite large inflows of foreign investment); increasing liquidity and
solvency problems of the commercial banks; uncertainties in the enterprises' status pending their
restructuring or privatization; the reluctance of commercial banks to lend to enterprises with unclear
prospects; and delays in completion of administrative and judicial proceedings in the case of enterprises
engaged in work-outs with their creditors (paras. 23 to 28).
vi.    Bank and Borrower Performance. Bank performance was satisfactory in all stages of the project
cycle as acknowledged by the Borrower. During project identification and preparation, the Bank was
substantially involved in assisting the Borrower in the design and development of the project, committing
considerable staff and consultant resources on its own account. The Bank was flexible as well in
modifying the project's provisions in response to changing circumstances, (e.g., in removing the export-
orientation requirement and in simplifying administrative procedures to encourage participation by private,
new investors). Project supervision was satisfactory overall but, during the critical period of mid-project
implementation between 1990 and 1992, it suffered from some discontinuities on account of the several
regional reorganizations and consequent staff reassignments.  The Borrower's performance was



- v -
satisfactory as well through all the project stages. A well-staffed Project Office was set up for the
project, with dedicated staff that contributed greatly to project monitoring and regular reporting of the
programs of the institutional components of the project. NBH, the Borrower, carried out well its
responsibility of monitoring and reporting of the progress of the credit line component. Compliance with
covenants was satisfactory overall in respect of the main covenants. Cooperation between the Borrower
and Bank staff remained responsive and cordial at all times (paras. 30 to 36).
vii.   Assessment of Project Outcome.  On balance, the outcome of the project is assessed as
satisfactory. The project's institutional objectives were largely achieved. Substantial progress was made
in the important sectoral policy objective of reduction of agricultural subsidies (from 8 percent of GDP
in 1987 to about 1 percent in 1990) although subsequent events, including severe droughts, have caused
the Government to increase its support levels (to about 2 percent of GDP). In regard to the financial
objectives, although the project achieved rather modest gains as to the original objective of increasing
export earnings and improving productivity of medium to large agroprocessing enterprises, it contributed
significantly to furthering the Government's evolving priorities of promoting the growth of private, new
investors in agroprocessing (paras. 37 and 38).
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTuRE OPERATIONS
viii.   The sustainability of the main project achievements is likely but would depend to a large extent
on the Government's success in turning around the overall macroeconomic situation which continues to
constrain many enterprises in improving their operations and deters potential clients from utilizing more
fully the services that can be provided by the institutions. Recent trends in the external environment are
more favorable for the project entities with the resumption of growth in western markets and progressive
implementation of Hungary's Association Agreement with the EU. No specific plan has been prepared
for future operations of the project. However, actions to be taken by the Government under its program
of enterprise and financial sector structural adjustment, including a resolution for the portfolio problems
of commercial banks, would be of critical importance for the enterprises as well as the commercial banks
concerned. The Bank is closely involved in assisting the Government in regard to the adjustment program
through a proposed Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL) that is under preparation
(paras. 29 and 39 to 43).
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
ix.    The main lessons from the project (as summarized in para 44) are:
a)  successful restructuring of medium to large state-owned enterprises cannot be accomplished
without sweeping reforms that address questions of enterprise ownership and governance,
and sustained exposure to domestic and foreign competition;
b)  the dangers of too restrictive a specification in terms of targeting of credit, and the need to
ensure movement towards more general, open lines of credit that are available to a broad
spectrum of users;
c)  greater reliance on the appraisal process and capabilities of the financial intermediaries
would not only reduce Bank inputs but also help the institutional development of the
financial institutions and increase their commitment to the ownership of the project;



- vi -
d)  the need for close follow-up and frequent assessment of the situation in regard to project
implementation, and for flexibility to adapt the project's provisions and procedures to
changing circumstances;
e)  the limitation against use of Bank funds for financing transfers of existing, used assets is an
important constraint in the ability of Bank credit lines to assist in the early stages of the
privatization process; and
f)  the importance of careful design of the Bank's subloan application, evaluation and reporting
requirements, taking account of the additional burden that this imposes on private sector
participants, both participating banks and investors, operating in a competitive environment.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(Loan 2936-HU)
PART I: PROJECT IPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The development objectives of the Agroprocessing Modernization Project (AMP) were to enhance
the international competitiveness of Hungarian agroprocessed exports and increase the efficiency of
production and effectiveness of marketing of agroprocessed products by: (a) increasing earnings of
agroprocessed and forestry exports, particularly to the convertible currency markets, by improving the
quality and marketing of exports; (b) improving the efficiency of operations of enterprises in the
agroprocessing subsector by reducing their unit costs of operations and improving their productivity; and
(c) creating a more effective business climate in the agroprocessing subsector in line with macroeconomic
price and tax reforms.
2.    The main project components were: (a) a US$60 million equivalent line of credit; (b) an
institutional component to upgrade support services to agroprocessing enterprises including: (i) export
trade promotion and marketing; (ii) training in management and marketing; (iii) grading and quality
control of raw materials and final products; and (iv) research and development; and (c) a sector policy
component consisting of: (i) a phased reduction of agricultural subsidies; (ii) an action program for
improvements in the poultry industry; and (iii) studies leading to the modernization and restructuring of
the glass and metal container industries relevant to agroprocessed products.
B. EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
3.    The operation's fundamental goal of increasing export competitiveness and efficiency in the
agroprocessing subsector was clear. Objectives (a) to (c) were well-defined to achieving these goals.
The objectives were also fully consistent with the Bank's strategy of assistance to Hungary at the time
which focussed on supporting Hungary's program of economic reform, to make it more efficient, flexible,
market responsive, and competitive in external markets, particularly in the convertible currency area.
The project's goals were realistic in the circumstances existing at the time. In 1988, when the loan for
the project was approved, although socialism was under strain and the demand for reform was growing,
there was no consensus that radical change was the only solution. Bank operations focussed therefore
on securing gains in selected subsectors, chosen on an assessment of their potential comparative
advantage, through improvement in the productivity and efficiency of state-owned enterprises. In
hindsight, the objectives remained restricted in that they did not seek further reforms of such broader
issues as enterprise ownership, governance, skills and technology policies.
4.    Project design took into account the experience under previous credit line projects in the sector
which also involved both NBH, as the Borrower in each case, and MOA. Since NBH and MOA had both
participated under the earlier projects, the project was not considered unduly complex in relation to the
implementation capacity of the project agencies.  The main risks to project implementation and



- 2 -
achievement of project objectives were recognized and assessed at appraisal-the possible effects on the
subsector from variations in implementation of the overall economic transformation and structural reform
programs, and the potential impact of adverse changes in world markets.
5.     As described later (para. 24), in addition to the transitional effects of the economic and structural
reform programs, the project's implementation period was marked also by major, unforeseen, external
factors, including the collapse of the former CMEA markets after 1990, and an unusual series of
consecutive droughts which severely affected agricultural production. Two significant modifications were
made to the project during implementation. First, at the Borrower's request, in November 1989, a
substantial amount of the loan, US$15 million (or about 20 percent) was allocated to finance emergency
working capital imports of animal feed to allow continued operations in the agroprocessing enterprises
concerned. Second, in support of the Government's policy of encouraging the growth of new, private
producers in the agroprocessing subsector, the original export-orientation criteria were significantly
modified in July 1992 by waiving the minimum quantitative export-orientation requirement. In addition,
other modifications were made between 1991 and 1994 to simplify application, evaluation and approval
procedures, all aimed at encouraging greater participation by emerging small, private investors.
C. ACHE:VEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
6.     The project succeeded in substantial achievement of its institutional development objectives in
support of creating a more effective business climate in the agroprocessing subsector, and in encouraging
the growth of new, private investors in agroprocessing. Sector policy and financial objectives were
partially achieved, to a lesser extent than in the case of the institutional objectives.
Sector Policy Objectives
7.     Achievement of sector policy objectives was partial. In respect of agricultural subsidies, major
reductions were made between 1988 and 1990, as agreed under the project, with the level of agricultural
subsidies declining from 8 percent of GDP in 1988 to around 1 percent in 1990. However, agricultural
subsidies have increased from these levels to around 2 percent of GDP at present, due in part to the
pressures arising from the adverse effects of the successive droughts between 1990 and 1993. In respect
of the action program for the poultry industry, although significant measures were taken to encourage
higher productivity with the liberalization of animal feed protein imports, no significant headway could
be made given structural problems in the industry. Finally, in respect of the glass and metal container
industries relevant to agroprocessed products, although studies for modernization and restructuring of the
industries were undertaken, as planned, their findings prudently were not implemented in the prevailing
circumstances with the financial difficulties of the container-making enterprises and the continuing
uncertainties in the main container-consuming agroindustries.
Financial Objectives
8.     Achievement of financial objectives was also partial. With the modifications made during project
implementation in support of the Government's policies for private sector development in the
agroprocessing subsector, the original emphasis in the financial objectives on increasing export earnings,
particularly to convertible currency markets, and on improving efficiency through unit cost reductions,
was modified to include the financing of viable private agroprocessing projects, even if not destined for
exports.



- 3 -
9.     Consequently, only 14 of the total of 56 subloans (accounting for about 25 percent of the amount
onlent) were for export-oriented subprojects. With a few notable exceptions, actual exports were generally
significantly lower than projected, reflecting the combined adverse effect of the collapse of the CMEA
markets, the difficulties in switching to Western markets, and the effects of the droughts that affected raw
material availability and quality, and resulted in increased production costs.
10.   The objective of improved efficiency through reductions in unit costs in medium to large
agroprocessing enterprises was also achieved only to a limited extent. While the new machinery and
equipment, and upgrading of domestic and imported working capital inputs, enabled by the subloans
resulted in improved technical capability, the efficiency aspects could be realized to only a limited extent
given the excess capacity in face of the weak domestic and external markets. In some cases, even though
the subproject was successfully implemented, the sponsoring enterprise faced severe problems from other
sources, leading to, in some cases, institution of bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings. Notably, in some
cases, the viability of the subproject operations resulted in the subproject being spun off as a separate,
autonomous entity even while the original sponsoring enterprise was undergoing major reorganization.
11.   Portfolio Characteristics: A total of 56 subloans was made under the project for an amount of
about US$ 45 million of which about US$26 million was for financing of working capital (including the
emergency imports of animal feed) and about US$19 million for investment financing. The subloans
ranged between US$ 18,000 to US$ 6.8 million; subloans for export-oriented subprojects, on average,
were about US$ 780,000 while those for other investment projects were about US$250,000 per loan.
12.   There were some significant differences as compared to expectations at appraisal. First, only a
small number of the medium to large agroprocessing enterprises that were expected to participate under
the project did in fact do so. This was due to a combination of factors, all leading to a reduced demand
for borrowed funds for investment purposes-the continued interest of foreign investors which resulted
in some of the better-performing enterprises having access to equity and other funds through the foreign
investor; the uncertainties caused in the medium to large state owned enterprises in the face of impending
transformation or privatization; high interest rate levels which deterred some enterprises from undertaking
investments; the weakness in domestic markets following from the macroeconomic adjustment process
as consumers reduced their demand for certain agroprocessed products; the collapse of the CMEA
markets; and the difficulties in penetrating Western markets in the face of quality and other requirements.
Second, the subsectoral composition of the subloans was significantly different from expectations at
appraisal. While, earlier, the poultry and wine industries had been expected to be the largest participants,
in the vastly changed circumstances since 1990, they had relatively small shares with the largest shares
going to processed fruits and vegetables (28 percent) followed by meat processing and grain milling
(about 16 percent each).
13.   In regard to performance, about 70 percent of the project investments appear to be operating
profitably even in the difficult economic environment described earlier.  However, a significant
proportion (about 25 percent) of the larger subprojects faced problems due to a combination of the effects
of weak domestic markets, the loss of CMEA markets, and the financial problems caused by inter-
enterprise arrears and high interest costs. In six cases, involving subloans in the amount of US$ 10
million, the enterprises are engaged in bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings with their creditors. Work-
out and reorganization plans are being negotiated in most cases. Other medium to large subprojects
appear to be operating profitably although achievements in most cases are lower than expected.
Performance in respect of the smaller subprojects has been more even, with arrears affecting around ten
percent of the total number of such subloans.



- 4 -
14.   Rates of Return: Actual financial rates of return (FRRs) are estimated to be significantly lower
than projected in most cases as a result of the effect of the unfavorable factors discussed above.
Calculation of FRRs for many of the larger subprojects has been affected by the changes in the original
sponsoring enterprise pursuant to voluntary, or involuntary, reorganization. Against the expectations
at appraisal of FRRs ranging from 26 to 51 percent with an average of around 35 percent, the actual
FRRs for the larger subprojects are likely to be substantially lower, even negative in a few extreme cases.
For smaller subprojects, sampled FRRs suggest a range of around 18 to 50 percent.
15.   Participating Banks: Only three banks participated under the project although many more had
been cleared in terms of eligibility to participate. As expected, Commercial and Credit Bank (OKHB -
which was formed in 1987 from the Central Bank's agricultural lending department) had the largest share
of the subloans, accounting for about 60 percent of the total amount onlent; the other two PBs, the
Hungarian Credit Bank, and Mezobank, had smaller shares at about 25 and 15 percent each. Reasons
for the limited participation of the banks include the fact that several of the eligible banks were
simultaneously participating under other concurrent Bank credit lines, including some available to the
agricultural sector.
16.    Loan evaluation and supervision procedures under the project contributed to strengthening of the
PBs' lending activities to agroprocessors, particularly in respect of servicing new, small, private sector
clients. More general development of the PBs' institutional and operational capabilities was pursued
through other concurrent and successor Bank operations. In common with many other Hungarian
conmmercial banks, the PBs under the project are facing systemic problems, particularly in relation to non-
performing and problem parts of their portfolios. The Government has taken some measures to
strengthen the financial situation of the banks through injections of new capital. However, substantial
further progress is needed, and this is being sought to be pursued under a proposed Enterprise and
Financial Sector adjustment operation currently being discussed with the Government.
Institutional Objectives
17.   Most institutional objectives were substantially achieved. This extended as well to the completion
of the studies under the project for the modernization of the glass and metal container industries which
could not be implemented, however, due to the unfavorable situation in the container manufacturing and
consuming industries.
18.   In respect of export promotion and marketing programs for agroprocessed products, the
Agromarketing Office, set up under the project, has become well-established as a focal point for
information for exporters. It has also had a central role in developing trade marks suitable for certifying
product quality and origin. The Office has been active in organizing trade promotion fairs and seminars,
and has had some success in acting as a middleman in enabling the establishment of joint ventures.
19.   One of the earliest institutional programs under the project was that aimed at training of export
marketing and management instructors. The programs were well-received by the user community in
agroprocessing enterprises, and seminars and training courses were regularly held.
20.    The Packaging and Quality Information Centers supported under the project have been enabled
to significantly upgrade their capabilities and have successfully established networks with counterparts
abroad. Both centers have been able to maintain a client-oriented focus, reflected in steady demand from
the customers.



- 5 -
21.   Capabilities for grading and quality control were significantly upgraded at five major quality
control centers, which serve as demonstration projects for others.
22.   The project also provided for pilot operations at leading research institutes for testing innovative
techniques for quality enhancement of raw materials for the food industry, and for goat husbandry,
including cheese making.
D. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AMCEC-NG PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Implementation Record
23.   The project was appraised in October 1987; loan negotiations were held in March 1988; the loan
was approved in May 1988 and became effective in August 1988. Disbursement was substantially slower
than expected at appraisal. Disbursements slowed down in particular after 1990 as the effects of the
transformation process and the impact of exogenous shocks coincided. While the several modifications
that were made in consultation with the Borrower to reflect the changing circumstances (e.g., increasing
the share of working capital financing; simplification of procedures to encourage new, private investors;
and raising of procurement limits to increase the flexibility given to the PBs) all helped to increase loan
utilization, an amount of US$20 million equivalent (or about 28 percent of the original amount) was
cancelled in October 1993 at the Borrower's request, and a further US$1.856 million in October 1994
at loan closing. In seeking these cancellations, the Borrower took into account the fact that funds would
continue to be available for financing of viable agroindustrial subprojects under another ongoing Bank
credit line (Loan 3020-HU).
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
24.   Two factors in particular had a major impact on project implementation. First, the major
changes that occurred after 1990 in the former CMEA markets which were critical for many Hungarian
exporters. The effect was even more pronounced as, encouraged by the increasing trade in convertible
currency within CMEA participants prior to 1990, many enterprises, including some of the larger
subborrowers under the project, had undertaken investments aimed primarily at these CMEA convertible
currency markets, but which were not readily switchable to the more demanding Western markets when
the CMEA markets disappeared. The second was the deleterious effect of an unusual period of three
successive droughts between 1990 and 1993 which severely affected agricultural production, thereby
reducing product quality and increasing unit costs of production for processors. The prolonged drought
period also contributed to escalating pressures on the Government for reversing the falling trend in
agricultural subsidies until 1990.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
25.   A major economic change occurred in 1990 as the first democratically elected Government in
Hungary undertook an accelerated program of macroeconomic and structural reform.  This program
differed radically from earlier efforts in its clear vision of a Hungarian market economy fully integrated
into Westem Europe. Foreign trade was liberalized (the only goods requiring licenses were those subject
to international agreements), prices were freed, subsidies to consumers and producers were drastically
reduced, and legal restrictions on hiring and firing of workers were removed. Progress was also achieved
in reforming the enterprise and financial sectors, including the creation of a large number of private banks
and sale of state-owned enterprises to domestic and foreign investors, raising the share of private sector
contribution to GDP to more than 50 percent.



- 6 -
26.    Changes ensuing from these programs affected project implementation in various ways, but the
combined effect was to reduce the demand for borrowed funds for undertaking investments.
Implementation of these reforms was accompanied by a sharp contraction of industrial output and real
GDP.   The contraction of activity was accompanied by a pronounced decline in aggregate fixed
investment despite large inflows of foreign investment. The pace of structural reforms decreased,
significantly affecting the performance of key economic sectors. The major banks faced increasing
liquidity and solvency problems. As a result of large losses by state-owned enterprises and a persistent
large fiscal deficit, bank lending to the more dynamic sectors in the economy became severely limited.
27.    Hungary's success in attracting foreign investment increased capital available to the better-
performing agroprocessing enterprises, reducing their dependence on debt financing. At the same time,
several medium to large agroprocessing enterprises that continued to be under state ownership, were
subject to uncertainties arising from impending changes in their status, and chose to postpone major
investments. The initial effects of some other major economic reform measures were also to discourage
investments and use of borrowed funds. The new banking law and regulations introduced in 1990
required banks to increase loan loss provisioning which also contributed to the high interest rates during
the period by requiring the banks to charge higher spreads. While the application of the new bankruptcy
and liquidation regulations since 1991 has contributed to increased financial discipline, enterprises have
been caught up in lengthy proceedings given the limited administrative capacities of the courts and other
agencies concerned.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
28.   MOA carried out well its role in relation to the institutional components under the project as
many of the institutions concerned continued to be under its jurisdiction. For the credit line component,
MOA was unable to have any significant impact in expediting either credit utilization or the early
resolution of pending cases for agroprocessing enterprises that were nominally under its aegis but were
either in the process of being transformed and transferred to other agencies such as the State Property
Agency (SPA) and local governments. Similarly, in the case of participating banks, with the autonomous
status of the banks pursuant to the banking sector reforms, NBH had limited influence in requiring banks
to take necessary actions to expedite project implementation and credit line utilization. Around mid-way
through project implementation, starting from 1991, the project also faced competition from some
bilateral credit lines that were made available to Hungary at lower nominal interest rates than the Bank's
rates and also provided greater flexibility to potential users by permitting the financing of transfers of
used assets (not permissible under Bank credit lines) as well as purchase of new equipment. NBH onlent
funds from these competing credit lines to participating banks at a rate which was substantially (25%)
below that for the Bank line under the project.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
29.   The sustainability of main project achievements is likely but would depend to a large extent on
the Government's success in turning around the overall macroeconomic situation which continues to
constrain many enterprises in improving their operations and deters potential clients from utilizing more
fully the services that can be provided by the institutions. Recent trends in the external environment are
more favorable for the project with resumption of growth in Western markets and progressive
implementation of Hungary's Association Agreement with the EU. Enterprises that have been successful
in exports are expected to continue to do so in the more favorable external environment. For others, the
outcome would depend upon the actions to be taken by the Government, including early transformation
of status, and early completion of reorganization proceedings where the enterprises have been caught up



- 7 -
in bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings. Participating banks are expected to continue to finance
agroprocessing projects for viable private and cooperative investors. Progress under the enterprise and
financial sector adjustment reform program, being pursued by the Government with Bank assistance in
the form of a possible EFSAL, would further reinforce the banks' ability and willingness to lend.
Measures to be taken to deal with the banks' portfolio problems under the adjustment program are
expected to lower the levels of mandatory provisioning by the banks and thus reduce the pressure on high
interest rates. The project's institutional achievements are likely to be sustained as upgrading of skills,
facilities and technology under the project have increased the market relevance of the institutions'
activities and helped them to increase their levels of self-financing. However, to the extent that several
of the institutions continue to rely to a various extent on Government budgetary support which is subject
to increasing uncertainties in the face of the urgent need to reduce deficit levels, their future continued
effective performance would depend upon continued efforts to increase even further the extent of self-
financing, which itself would depend upon the rate of pick-up in the overall economy.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
30.   Bank performance was satisfactory in all stages of the project cycle as acknowledged by the
Borrower. During project identification and preparation, the Bank was substantially involved in assisting
the Borrower in the design and development of the project, committing considerable staff and consultant
resources on its own account. The Bank provided guidance in the preparation of extensive market
studies, including export prospects to Western markets for selected agroprocessing branches. Considerable
work was carried out as well on an assessment of the enterprises as a result of which about 70 enterprises
were identified as likely participants under the project. During project preparation, the Bank found that
its early emphasis on targeting selected agroprocessing industry branches (e.g., poultry, wine, wood
products, etc.) as well as on selected enterprises was likely to prove too restrictive in the changing
economic circumstances, and by appraisal, the Bank moved towards opening the credit line to all eligible
agroprocessing exporters. The Bank was also instrumental in helping the Borrower to design a package
of institutional development aimed at providing exporting agroprocessing enterprises with appropriate
support.
31.   The main project risks-the potential impact on the agroprocessing subsector of the extent and
pace of economic reform being pursued by the Government, and of unfavorable developments in export
markets-were identified at appraisal. However, what could not be foreseen was the major acceleration
of the economic reform after 1990 and the resulting transitional discontinuities -- including the years of
negative GDP growth and weaknesses in domestic markets -- and the sudden collapse of the CMEA
market.
32.   The Bank mounted nine supervision missions between 1988 and 1994, roughly at six-month
intervals. Supervision missions were staffed either by agricultural economists or financial analysts; in
hindsight, the involvement of agroindustries specialists from time to time may have been beneficial in
enabling an assessment of problems by specific branches and enterprises. The critical mid-implementation
(1990 to 1992) supervision period was marked by some staff discontinuities resulting from internal Bank
reorganizations and reassignments. In respect of the credit line component, supervision focussed, from
the outset, on the banks' agroprocessing lending activities; more general issues relating to the PBs' overall
financial performance and operations were addressed under concurrent other Bank operations, including
credit lines to the industrial sector and a loan to the PBs themselves for undertaking modernization of
their operating systems and facilities.



- 8 -
33.    From an early stage, supervision focussed on the need to improve the slow pace of subloan
commitment and disbursement. Efforts were made to bring Hungarian firms into contact with possible
foreign partners for forming trading joint ventures. PBs were consistently advised to raise the level of
their promotional activities for generating greater investor interest in the credit line. The Bank showed
flexibility in making several modifications to the credit line provisions to reflect changing needs and
circumstances. This included the modifications to permit greater working capital financing; waiving of
the minimum export-orientation requirement to enable wider participation, including from emerging new,
private investors; simplification of application, evaluation and approval procedures to encourage small
investors; and raising procurement and subloan processing limits to give greater flexibility to the PBs to
utilize the credit line. In one respect, however, the Bank was not able to respond fully to the Borrower's
requests -- this was in regard to the use of Bank funds for financing transfers of existing assets e.g. for
enabling new private investors to purchase existing assets of state farms and enterprises. Nevertheless,
the Bank emphasized that Bank funds should be used in a complementary manner for financing the
purchase of new equipment, facilities and working capital in conjunction with the purchase of used assets.
Supervision missions also visited subborrowers on a sample basis or where problems were known to
exist. However, tracking of progress in remedial action was difficult once the enterprises had entered
into judicial proceedings (e.g., into bankruptcy or liquidation negotiations with creditors).
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
34.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory through all stages of the project cycle. MOA put
together an experienced team to work with Bank staff during project preparation which successfully
coordinated the preparation of the several market and financial analytical studies that were undertaken.
A well-staffed Agroprocessing Modernization Project Office (AMPO) was set up in AGROBER, an
agency which had participated extensively under the previous project. AMPO functioned effectively with
dedicated staff, and contributed greatly to project monitoring and regular reporting of the progress of the
institutional components of the project. Responsibility for monitoring and reporting of the credit line
component was placed on the section already set up in NBH under earlier Bank credit lines. This section
was again well-staffed, and monitoring and reporting were regular. Both MOA and NBH officials
remained accessible at all times for consultation and cooperated fully with supervision missions.
35.   The Borrower substantially complied with project financial and reporting covenants. Compliance
was partial in respect of some of the sector undertakings. Thus, the action plan for the poultry industry
was only partially implemented.
36.   Some of the measures being pursued by the Government in the broader context of macroeconomic
and structural reform also impacted on project implementation (e.g., the uncertainties caused by
impending transformation and privatization/restructuring of state owned enterprises which led them to
defer investments; the time taken to deal with the banks' non-performing portfolio problems which
increased the pressure on interest rate levels through the mandatory higher provisioning; and delays in
completion of bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings in the face of limited capacities of the courts and
other agencies concerned).
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
37.   Major changes, not foreseeable at appraisal, took place in the internal and external economic
environments with the events since 1990 described earlier. Ensuing transitional changes impacted on the
project's implementation. Consequently, the project's original financial objectives-increasing export
earnings, particularly to convertible currency markets and improving enterprise efficiency through



reductions in unit costs in medium to large agroprocessing enterprises-could be achieved to only a
limited extent as compared to earlier expectations. However, this is compensated to some extent by the
project's success in supporting other emerging priorities under the Government's ongoing reform program
such as encouraging the growth of new, private investors in agroprocessing activities. Overall, as
indicated earlier (para 13), around 70 percent of the project investments appear to be operating profitably
even in the difficult economic environment in recent years. On the other hand, institutional objectives
were largely met. With project supported activities, institutional capacities have been built up which are
likely to be sustained. The project contributed to the participating banks' capabilities for evaluating and
monitoring agroprocessing investments. Finally, substantial improvements were made in reducing levels
of agricultural subsidies during the period of project implementation although much more needs to be
done in the context of the urgent need to reduce budgetary deficits in Hungary.
38.    On balance, therefore, the project outcome is assessed as satisfactory. Even though a substantial
part of the loan was not utilized and the original financial objectives achieved only to a limited extent,
the project achieved important sectoral and institutional gains; strengthened the participating banks'
capabilities in financing agroinvestments; and supported private sector development in agroprocessing
activities.
1. FUTURE OPERATION
39.    The Borrower has not prepared a formal operational plan given the multiplicity of participants.
The Borrower's submission, jointly prepared with MOA, is annexed to the ICR. However, during the
ICR completion mission, NBH and MOA confirmed that the main project objectives continue to be
generally valid and reiterated their commitment to enable the sustaining of viable project components.
40.   In respect of the sector policy comfponient, the issue of agricultural subsidies was discussed
between the Governiment and the Bank in the context of the joint review of the sector report titled
Agricultural Policy Review in September 1994. The Government has indicated that it would continue
to assess the levels and forms of agricultural subsidies in the light of the evolving situation, including
Hungary's obligations under GATT and the EU Association Agreement.
41.   In regard to the institutional component, the institutions supported under the project are being
encouraged to increase the extent of their self-financing through direct commercial contacts with potential
end-users. Their success in doing so would depend critically upon a revival of the overall economy
which would encourage end-users to increase their utilization of such services.
42.    For the credit component, resolution of the cases where enterprises have entered into bankruptcy
or liquidation proceedings, including possible work-outs and reorganizations, depends upon the speed of
the judicial and administrative process.  Actions to improve the situation, including measures to
strengthen the performance of the banking system, are being pursued in the context of the proposed
EFSAL that is being discussed with the Government.
43.    Given the concurrence and common elements in implementation of various ongoing credit lines
in Hungary, it is recommended that an OED review be planned for the second half of 1996 to cover
jointly both the Agroprocessing Modernization and the Integrated Agricultural Exports Development
Projects (Loan 3229-HU). The latter is currently scheduled to close by end-December 1995.



- 10 -
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
44.    The main lessons from  the project, which may also have more general relevance for other
projects, are:
(i)  successful restructuring of medium to large state-owned enterprises cannot be accomplished
without sweeping reforms that address questions of enterprise ownership and governance,
and sustained exposure to domestic and foreign competition;
(ii) the dangers of too restrictive a specification in terms of targeting of credit, and the need to
ensure movement towards more general, open lines of credit that are available to a broad
spectrum of users;
(iii) greater reliance on the appraisal process and capabilities of the financial intermediaries
would not only reduce Bank inputs but also help the institutional development of the
financial institutions and increase their commitment to the ownership of the project;
(iv) the need for close follow-up and frequent assessment of the situation in regard to project
implementation, and for flexibility to adapt the project's provisions and procedures to
changing circumstances;
(v) the limitation against use of Bank funds for financing transfers of existing, used assets is an
important constraint in the ability of Bank credit lines to assist in the early stages of the
privatization process; and
(vi) the importance of careful design of the Bank's subloan application, evaluation and reporting
requirements, taking account of the additional burden that this imposes on private sector
participants, both participating banks and investors, operating in a competitive environment.



- 11 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(Loan 2936-HRJ)
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:    Studies Included Under the Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions






- 16 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate                       Actual/Estimated
Local  Forei-n              ~~LocalFoeg
LoOcstal   Foreign       Total         Costs                 Total
Costs       Costs                               Costs
Wine and Juice                                    17.5         17.0        34.5         1.3         1.0          2.3
Processed Vegetables and Fruits                    7.5         12.3        19.8         3.4        7.3          10.7
Poultry                                           28.1        29.6         57.7         0.7        0.7           1.4
Forestry                                           12.0        16.7        28.7         3.7        4.4           8.1
Breweries                                         ---         ---         ---            1.9        1.9          3.8
Bakeries                                          ---         ---         ---           22          1.6          3.8
Meat                                              ---         ---         ---           7.1        4.5          11.6
Other                                             ---         ---         ---           4.8        11.2         16.0
Technical Assistance                                7.2         4.8        12.0         0.8        6.1           6.9
Agricultural Program  (incl. marketing)             1.3         6.2         7.5                   11.6          11.6
Total                           73.6        86.6        160.2        25.9       50.3          76.2
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Appraisal                                     Actual\EstimaLed
Subloans                                        Subloans
from     Govt.    Prol'ect                     from       Govt.      Project   IBDToa
Commercial Contrib.  Beneficiaries  IBRD   Total  Commercial  Contrib.   Beneficiaries
Banks                                           Banks
Equipment                   24.8     -         25.0      58.8  108.6         4.5      2.2          5.5     15.7  25.9
Civil Works                 28.3     -          7.1       -    35.4          1.0      0.7          6.1      -      7.2
Incremental Working          -       -          -         -      -           5.5      -            4.1     13.7  19.7
Capital
Training & Technical         -       3.2        -         5.5   8.7          -        0.9         0.8       6.0   7.7
Assistance
Agricultural Program         -       -          1.8       5.7   7.5          -        -            -       11.6  11.6
(incl. export marketing)
Other                        -       -          -         -      -           0.6      -           2.5       1.0   4.1
Total             53.1      3.2       33.9     70.0 160.2          11.7      1.2        15.3     48.0  76.2
Percentage Share        33       2         21        44   100            15       2           20       63   100



- 17-
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
At appraisal, the project as a whole was estimated to account for:
(i)  incremental  sales  revenue  of  US$522  million  at  full
development;
(ii) profit before taxes and depreciation of about US$250 million;
and
(iii) incremental convertible currency savings of about US$280
million yearly. The minimum financial rate of return (FRR)
required for subproject eligibility was 18 percent.
Ex-post data on project benefits are not available because of major
organizational changes within many of the larger participating
enterprises.   Based on available samples, FRRs for the larger
subprojects appear to range between negative in a few extreme cases
to about 50 percent while those for smaller subprojects range typically
between 18 to 50 percent.



- 18 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Overall Project Rating: 2
Original
Agreement    Section    Covenant  Status  Fulfillment                          Description of Covenant                         Comments
Type                Date
LA           3.0)1(h)       M          C                For carrying out Pan A of tde Project, Borrower is to make available to   Complied
the Guarantor funds under Subsidiary Financing Agreements terms and
conditions approved by the Bank.
LA           3.01(c)        M          C                For carrying out Part B of the Project, Borrower is to niake available    Complied
participating Banks finds under Subsidiary Financing Agreements temis
and conditions approved by the Bank.
LA           3.01(d)        NI         C                Borrower to supervise the carrying out by the Participating Banks of      Complied
their obligations under the Subsidiary Financing Agreements, and ensure
that the individual subloan limits and the aggregate loans to any one
enterprise shall niot exceed the stipulated limits.
LA           3.02            P         C                Procuremnenit to he govemed by Schedule 4 to the LA.                      Coniplied
LA           4.01(b)         F         C                Borrower to maintain satisfactory records and accounts in accordance      Complied
with sound accounting practices.
LA           4.01(h)         F         C                Borrower to have records and accounts, including those for the Special    Complied
Account, audited not later than five months after the close of the fiscal
year.
LA           4.01(c)         F         C                Borrower to  maintain  appropriate  records and  accounts  for all        Coniplied
expenditures for which  withdrawals were made form  the Special
Accounts and ensure that audit report contains a separate opinion by the
auditors.
GA           3.01          MN          C                Guarantor to provide funds to finance technical assistance, training and  Coniplied
technical services of Part A.
GA           3.()2          N4         C                Guaranitor to employ consultants satisfactory to the Bank for carrying    Complied
out Part A of the Project.
GA           3.05(a)        M          C                Guarantor to carry utit export trade promotion program.                   Complied
GA           3.05(a)        M          C    4/'20/Mi)    Guarantoir to establish agrornarketing office, to assist exporters.      Complied
GA           4.03           M          C                Guarantor to set tip interindustry consultative panel to deterniine work  Coniplied
priorities of lIHFl regarding R & D in agroprocessing.
GA           4.01(h)         F         C                Guarantor to liave records and accounts for each fiscal year audited in   Coniplied
accordanice with appropriate auditing principles not later than five
months after the end of the f iscal year.
SLI          Aniex I         L         C'               Guaraittor to reduce invcstinent, production and consumer subsidies by    Complied
tine-thiri between 1987 and 1990.
SLI          Annex 2        E         (CP               Guarantor to carry out a poultrv industry plan of action.                   Partially
Complietd
Covenant type:                                                                             Status:
M   =  Managerial                                                                        C    =  Complied
F =  Financial                                                                           CP  =  Partially Complied
T  =  Technical
P =  Procurement
E = Economic



- 19 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(Staff-Weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                      Planned      Revised       Actual
Through appraisal                             n.a.          n.a.        17.8
Appraisal-Board                               n.a.          n.a.        45.2
Board-Effectiveness
Supervision                                  82.0         100.6         88.4
Completion                                    12.0         11.0          6.4
TOTAL                                         n.a.          n.a.       157.8



- 20 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
No. of Days in                              Rating 2           Types of
Stage of Project Cycle      Month/Year  Persons   Field    Specialization    Implementation Development Problems
status      objectives
Through Appraisal               3/85         1        18           R               na            na           na
6/85        1        6            E               na            na           na
10/85       1        3            R                na            na          na
2/86
10/86       2        10          E, R              na            na          na
2/87        6        15        E, F, M            na             na          na
6/87        5        11     E, F, M, R, A         na            na           na
1       14            E               na            na          na
Appraisal - Board Approval     10/87         5        17       E, F, R, A          na            na           na
Board Approval -                6/88         6        10           E               na            na           na
Effectiveness
Supervision I                   3/89         2        16         E, E               I             I           ---
Supervision H                   9/89         2        12         E, A              2              1         F, M
Supervision m                  11/90         2        10         E, R              2              2         F, M
Supervision IV                  4/91         2        10         E, F              2             2          F, M
Supervision V                  10/91         1        10           F               2              2         F, M
Supervision VI                  9/92         3        10           F               2             2          F, M
Supervision VII                 4/93         1        3            F               2              2         F, M
Supervision VEII               10/93         2        10          F, E             2             2          F, M
Completion                      8/94         1        5            F               2             2
Follow-Up                       2/95         1        3            F               2             2          F, M
1 - Specialization                           2 - Performance Rating                3 - Types of Problems
A = Agriculturalist                           I = Minor problems                   F =  Financial
E = Economist                                2 = Moderate Problems                 T = Technical
D = Education Specialist                     3 = Major Problems                    M = Managerial
F = Financial Analyst
H = Horticulturist
L = Livestock Specialist
M  = Marketing Specialist
N = Engineer
R = Forester
m:\AhN=mpmatr.iCr






APPENDIX A
Page 1 of 6
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2936-HU)
AIDE MEMOIRE OF IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
1.    A World Bank (WB) mission visited Hungary between August 3 to 9, 1994 to initiate work on
the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agroprocessing Modernization Project (AMP). The
mission met with representatives of the Borrower (NBH), the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), the AMP
Project Unit, the main participating banks, and visited selected subprojects. The mission would like to
thank the various Hungarian counterparts for all the cooperation and courtesies extended to it. The
mission's views expressed in this Aide Memoire are subject to confirmation by WB management on the
mission's return to Washington.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.    The Borrower and MOA confirmed that the project objectives as expressed in para 4.03 of the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) remain generally relevant. However, major changes have taken place in
the project's environment since it was appraised in 1987, which have had extensive impact on the
project's implementation and execution. These include:
--    the major political changes since 1990;
--    the new governments' economic and structural reform programs;
-     the collapse of the CMEA markets since 1990;
--    Hungary's Association Agreement with the EU;
-     new laws on banking, and on bankruptcy/liquidation of enterprises.
3.    The combined effect of these factors has been that, while some of the project components have
been successfully implemented, others have faced various degrees of difficulties. This has been
particularly true of the credit component under the project.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATIONAL PLAN
4.    Part A of the project has, on the whole, been implemented as planned. Although major studies
under the project were completed, e.g. on the glass and can container industries, their findings could not
be implemented due to the changing situation in the user and feeder industries resulting from the ongoing
changes in the domestic and external (notably CMEA) markets.
5.    In regard to the component on the establishment of an agricultural marketing office and
preparation of an export marketing promotion program, modifications were made to the original concept.
The Borrower's ICR should indicate the reasons for the modifications, the alternative arrangements made,
and the impact on agricultural marketing and exports.



APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 6
6.    Under Part B of the project, while many subprojects have achieved their objectives, a
considerable number are facing various degrees of operational and financial difficulties, including
bankruptcy and liquidation proceedings in some cases.
OPERATIONAL PLAN
7.    The WB's revised guidelines (April 1994) on preparation of ICRs requires the preparation of an
operational plan by the Borrower and the implementing agencies, indicating actions and measures to be
taken by the Borrower, the relevant Government agencies, and the project entities, to ensure satisfactory
future implementation and operations under the project, and the achievement of the project's objectives.
The mission welcomed very much the assurances of the Borrower and the project agencies as to providing
their best efforts to meet the revised requirements. It was agreed that a draft operational plan would be
prepared and sent to the WB by October 31, 1994. The draft operational plan should include:
*     the Government's views on the continued relevance of the project objectives;
*     actions and measures to be taken to ensure sustainability and continued satisfactory
operation of institutions and technical assistance programs under the project; and
*     actions and measures to be taken to resolve the situation in case of subprojects and
subborrowers facing financial difficulties, including enterprises that continue to be under
state ownership.
The operational plan should be supported by a table that indicates clearly, for each major item under the
policy, institutional, technical assistance, and credit components, the following:
-     major issues/problems;
-     major actions/measures already taken, being taken or to be taken;
-     schedule and timing of each major action/measure; and
-     the main Government and/or project agencies responsible for the actions/measures.
BORROWER'S EVALUATION OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
8.    The mission drew the attention of NBH, MOA and the project entities to the Borrower's
responsibilities in the preparation of the ICR as indicated in the WB's Operational Manual Statement and
Good Practices for ICR Preparation (GP 13.55 of April 1994, paras 4 and 5). Copies of the WB's BP
13.55 and relevant parts of GP 13.55 were left with the Borrower, MOA and the AMP Project Unit.
9.    As indicated in BP 13.55 and GP 13.55, the Borrower's ICR should include a summary not
exceeding 10 pages, together with the supporting report and annexes.
10.   The Borrower's complete ICR is to be submitted to the WB latest by October 31, 1994.
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
11.   To enable a comparison of appraised and actual project costs and financing plan, the Borrower
and the project agencies should update the relevant tables (Tables 3 and 4) on pages 23 and 24 of the
Staff Appraisal Report No. 7091-HU of April 11, 1988.



APPENDIX A
Page 3 of 6
INFORMATION TO BE SENT TO THE WORLD BANK
12.   To enable the WB to complete the draft of Part I of the ICR, it was agreed that the Borrower and
MOA would ensure that the information indicated in Annex 1 is sent to the WB by October 31, 1994
together with the updated project costs and financing table (para. 11) and the draft operational plan
(para. 7).
13.   The proforma in Annex 1 should be used for all large subprojects (those with subloans over
US$300,000). For smaller subprojects, a less detailed proforma could be used, for example, excluding
the sections on subproject financial rate of return, procurement, and investor financial rates of return from
Part II, and excluding Parts III to V. However, financial rates of return should be calculated for a
representative sample of the smaller subprojects.
14.   The mission indicated that the WB's draft of Part I of the ICR would be submitted to NBH and
MOA within two weeks of receipt of the information in Washington.
COORDINATION OF ICR PREPARATION
15.   The following persons would coordinate the preparation of the Borrower's and the WB's
preparation of the ICR:
For the Borrower:    Mr. Emil Keleti (Dept. of Food Processing, Ministry of Agriculture)
Ms. Maria Deak (National Bank of Hungary)
Mr. Zsolt Papp (APM Project Office)
For the WB:         Mr. Kishore Nadkarni (Central Europe Department)
Budapest/Washington
August 8, 1994 and
August 29, 1994



APPENDIX A
Page 4 of 6
Annex 1
Subproject Information Summarm to be Submitted
for Each Large Subloan/Subproject
(for each subloan over US$300,000 equivalent)
PART I. Background Information
Name of Investing Enterprise:
Location:
Type of Ownership: majority state-owned/cooperative/majority private-owned
Tvpe of Organization: state enterprise, joint stock company, limited liability company, etc.
Main Activities of Investine Enterprise:
Short Description of Subproiects: e.g. new facility/expansion/diversification for production of (name
of product) of which .......... percent aimed at exports to convertible currency markets (if applicable)
Subloan Information:
*     name of participating bank
*     date of subloan approval by participating bank
a     amount of subloan (US$ equivalent)
*     maturities, grace period
X     interest rate charged by participating bank
*     date of first repayment of subloan principal
*     are interest/principal payments current?  -- indicate extent of arrears, default,
rescheduling, etc., if applicable
Subproject Completion/Expected Completion Date: month/year
PART II. Performance Summary
Subpro*ect Performance:
Appraisal           Actual/Current Estimate
(in US$)
incremental sales
incremental exports to CC markets
incremental employment (in nos.)



APPENDIX A
Page 5 of 6
Subproject Cost:
ApDraisal    Actual        Appraisal    Actual
(in HUF)            (in US$ equivalent)
*     civil works
*     machinery & equipment
*     incremental working capital
*     other
Total subproject cost
Subproject Financing:
Appraisal    Actual
(in HUF)
*     investors' own funds
*     local loans
*     world bank subloan
*     other foreign loans
Total subproject financing
Sub_roject Financial Rate of Return:     Appraisal            Current Estimate
Subproject Procurement:                  No. of Contracts           Value
(in US$)
-     International Competitive Bidding
-     International Shopping
*     Direct Contracting
Other (specify)
Total
Investina Enterpnrise Performance:       (in HUF or ratios, as relevant)
1992         1993
*     total sales
*     net profit/loss
*     net worth
*     current ratio
Note: net worth = assets minus liabilities owed to others
current ratio = current assets/current liabilities



APPENDIX A
Page 6 of 6
PART III. Maior Issues/Problems (in order of importance)
For example,
*     excess capacity due to lack of domestic/foreign markets
*     difficult financial situation due to
*     organizational and management weaknesses such as
*     high costs of production due to
*     low/negative profitability due to
PART IV. Actions/Measures Taken or To Be Taken to
Address the Above Issues/Problems
For example,
*     voluntary restructuring by enterprise is under way
*     involuntary restructuring/bankruptcy/liquidation proceedings are under way
*     privatization/restructuring of enterprise is actively under way
*     enterprise is being restructured under consolidation program
Adequate information should be provided to give a clear indication of the actions/measures taken
or to be taken, with an indication of their timing, and the agency or agencies responsible for
implementation or enforcement.
PART V. Expected Outcome and Timing
An indication should be provided of the expected outcome of the actions/measures being taken
and the timing/expected timing of the outcome.
m:Vmnkamp2936



APPENDIX B
Page 1 of 8
BoRROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
(Prepared jointly by the National Bank of Hungary and the Ministry of Agriculture)
INTRODUCTION
1.    In the second half of the 1980s, the Hungarian Government developed and introduced a number
of financial incentives to encourage state-owned food-industry enterprises to increase their exports to
convertible currency markets. However, those efforts sometimes failed to succeed because:
most of the products were sold to Eastern Europe countries;
there were only a few industrial facilities capable of restructuring their product profile
in a quick and flexible manner;
lack of strategic concepts suitable to support the making of consistently organized
marketing efforts by the management;
*     compared to the value of fixed assets, the amount of working funds remained excessively
low;
*     lack of external sources needed to finance imports from convertible currency countries.
2.    In order to solve the above problems and to support implementation of the Government's creative
endeavors, the World Bank (IBRD) and the Hungarian Government designed and launched an
Agroprocessing Modernization Project, with due regard to:
*     the existing organizational and production structure of the state-owned foodprocessing
companies;
*     the features and capabilities of institutions designed to control operations of the
agroprocessing industry, knowing that those institutions were in need of being
transformed and/or restructured;
*     the existing financial conditions of lending; furthermore;
*     the then existing system of subsidies granted by the state to encourage exports.
CONTINUED VALIDITY OF THIE AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT'S OBJECTIVE
3.    The objective of the Agroprocessing Modernization Project is to enhance the international
competitive edge of exported goods produced by the Hungarian agriculture and agroprocessing industry,
to improve the efficiency of production and to promote efficient marketing of products made by
Hungarian food industry companies. Within the Project, the most important targets are as follows:
*     increase of the exports of food and forestry products, through improved quality and
applying better marketing skills;
*     improvement of efficiency throughout the operations and management of the companies
concerned, by means of cutting their specific costs and improving their productivity;
*     development of a more favorable "climate" in business life and market economy, in
conformity with the reform of the pricing and tax regime to be accomplished at the level
of the national economy.



APPENDIX B
Page 2 of 8
4.    In conformity with the policy adopted by the Hungarian Government concerning the economic
reform, the World Bank experts have identified five major areas within the plan focusing on the
establishment of a proper institutional framework, which areas have been considered to have a decisive
effect on the selection of the Project's objectives. These areas are the following:
*     development of a legal framework regarding the founding and liquidation of companies;
*     completion of the refortn of pricing and tax regime (removal of subsidies, broader
application of free pricing policy);
*      liberalization of foreign trade;
*      introduction of a uniform and restriction-free wage policy (including removal of various
legal provisions making adverse effects on organizations active in the domestic agriculture
and food industry);
*     granting significantly more autonomy to companies in financing their businesses.
5.    The Hungarian Government definitely confirmed its commitment regarding validity of the
Agroprocessing Modernization Project's objectives in a document published in June 1991 to discuss some
major agrarian policy issues and in the Government Program of 1994. Both documents specified the
same targets, i.e., agribusinesses must improve their efficiency, should adjust their production and
product profile to the market demand and should react to market changes in a more flexible and sensitive
manner. The Government Program of 1994 laid a special emphasis on the increase of exports of
competitive agroprocessed goods.
6.     The Project was designed to be implemented over a four-year period and consisted of (i) an
institutional development part and (ii) an investment component.
*     the institutional development part was designed to upgrade support services to enterprises,
in terms of: (a) export trade promotion and marketing; (b) training in management and
marketing; (c) grading and quality control of raw materials and final products; (d)
research and development; (e) creating a basis for the restructuring of the glass container
industry and can manufacturing.
*     under the investment component, long term funds were provided for strengthening of the
agroprocessors' management and marketing capabilities, the rehabilitation and expansion
of their facilities, and the carrying out by these entities of export trade promotion and
marketing schemes.
AcBvEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
7.    The economic policy objectives of the Project were completely achieved:
*     The transformation of the price, subsidy and tax systems and their comprehensive reform
in conformity with the market economy were outlined in 1988. Parallel with project
implementation, the price system of agricultural products was liberalized. Agricultural
subsidies fell radically starting from 1990 and subsidies were phased out across a
significant span of production. Foreign trade in general and imports in particular were
liberalized, constraints were only imposed through the Agricultural Market Regime,
which were in place to protect the local market. Under the auspices of tax reform, a



APPENDIX B
Page 3 of 8
transparent, uniform and competitive tax system was created comprising three major
types of taxes (VAT, personal income tax and corporate profit tax).
The Ministry of Agriculture took major action in order to improve the competitiveness
of poultry production. Breeders and poultry producers were mobilized in keeping with
project objectives through the Association of Poultry Producers. Loan funds were made
available through the participating commercial banks for the establishment of new
production integrations, installation and restructuring of hatching farms and the
implementation of the veterinary system.
8.     Achievements under the Institutional Development Component:
*     The Agromarketing Office achieved significant results in the process of developing a
trademark suitable for certifying product quality and origin. In addition, the Office has
assumed the role of "middleman" or trade promoter. The Office had developed a
Collective Food Marketing Project and its trade promotion efforts met with much
success. The Office had an active role in encouraging the establishment of international
joint ventures, as well.
*     The subproject of "Training of Export Marketing and Management Instructors" has also
proved its merits. A number of successful seminars and training courses certify the
success of this subproject which is reflected by numerous cases of positive feedback
received from businessmen and companies.
*     In the frame of the Research and Development subproject, a number of useful
relationships were established between fellow researchers working in universities and
research institutions abroad and the domestic food industry companies. The services
offered by this subproject have met great demand.
*     The Packaging Center and the Quality Information Center have been established and both
are operational. Both centers established extensive international relations and have
received numerous orders placed by domestic customers. A very intensive demand has
been experienced for the information provided by the Quality Information Center.
*     The equipment used for grading and quality control were modernized and upgraded at
five state-owned quality control stations, as a result of the development subprojects
provided by AMP.
*     The studies discussing the issues related to qualification of food industry raw materials,
modernization and development of the supply of glass food containers and the
restructuring of can manufacturing have been completed.
*     From the "unallocated" portion of the Agroprocessing Loan, the Szarvas Faculty of the
Debrecen University of Agricultural Sciences launched a pilot farm to support the
development of the profitable production of food industry raw materials which are
capable of satisfying quality requirements across a wider variety; and the Research
Institute of the University of Veterinary Sciences (Ullo, Dora farm) set up a pilot goat
farm which is to develop goat production and cheese production technology to be spread
across the county with the assistance of Dutch specialists; study tours were organized for



APPENDIX B
Page 4 of 8
researchers from the Agricultural Biotechnology Research Institute (Godollo), the
Irrigation Research Institute (Szarvas), the Agricultural Research Institute of the
Hungarian Academy of Sciences (Martonvasar), and the PANNON University of
Agricultural Science (Kaposvar) to study the developments of the food industry and the
methods and instruments to promote increasingly efficient market entry of food products.
9.     Under the credit line (investment) component, the achievement of objectives can be evaluated as
follows:
*     The export performance of the food industry increased. In 1993, USD 133 million of
incremental exports were realized on account of the Project. In 1994, incremental
exports exceeded USD 140 million in line with the projections.
*     Significant efficiency improvement can be noted both at large and small companies
participating in the Project. During 1992-1993, project beneficiaries experienced a 16
percent reduction in the number of employees, while their value-added increased by 7
percent. Consequently, the per capita value added was 28 percent higher in 1993 than
in the previous year.
*     Contrary to the appraisal estimates, loan funds were not financed exclusively by the
preselected subsectors. Altogether 16 food industry subsectors were covered by the
creditline component (the majority of subprojects were identified in the canning industry,
meat industry, forestry, wood processing, breweries, and bakery industry).
MAJOR FACTORs AFFCTING TE PROJECT
10.   The most important institutional conditions of a market economy emerged by the time of project
completion. Acts were enacted concerning bankruptcy, financial institutions, accounting, corporate profit
taxation, companies, the transformation of cooperatives, land and privatization.
11.   Hungary signed the Europe Treaty with the EC. Granting to Hungary the status of associated
member of EC increased the chances of Hungarian agroprocessed goods to be sold to EC markets.
12.   The Act on Agricultural Market Regime was also passed.  The Product Councils and the
Agricultural Market Regime Authority have become operational. Foreign trade was liberalized. Wage
regulations affecting the public sector were incorporated into a uniform  legal framework.  The
restructuring of the pricing and tax system in conformity with the market economy was completed by
1990.
13.   Several factors, however, having been beyond the control of project authorities, adversely affected
the implementation of the Project credit component and mitigated the impact of the Project on the overall
development of the food industry.
*     Agriculture and the food processing industry were severely hit by the collapse of the
CMEA markets in 1991. Between 1991 and 1993, the value of agriculture and food
industry exports declined by 26 percent from USD 2.7 billion to USD 2.0 billion.
Although Hungary signed the Association Agreement with the EC in 1991, which has
granted better market access for Hungarian agricultural and food products into the



APPENDIX B
Page 5 of 8
European Union, agro-industrial trade performance under the Project was insufficient to
offset the losses which the Hungarian agro-industries have suffered due to the collapse
of the CMEA market.
*      The continuous decline in the consumption of domestic food products also had a negative
impact on the food processing sector. As a result of the decrease in primary production
and a drop in exports and domestic demand, output of the food sector declined by about
40 percent between 1988 and 1992.
*      Due to the contraction of both the domestic and export markets, most of the large
agricultural and food processing enterprises found themselves in a difficult financial
situation and banks were reluctant to increase their exposure in the food processing
sector. The number of food industry enterprises subject to bankruptcy proceedings
increased in the last four years. Poultry, canning and meat processing companies have
been the most affected by liquidation proceedings. Thus, significant parts of potential
beneficiaries have not been able to comply with the project viability, creditworthiness
criteria and collateral requirements of commercial banks. The Government launched a
program in December 1993 to clean up the bad debts of several food processing
companies. Due to the fact that the Government program started only in 1994, it could
not have major impact on project implementation.
*      sThe structure of the food processing sector has also undergone a radical transformation
since 1990. By March 1994, 58 percent of the large-scale state-owned enterprises were
privatized and the number of enterprises in the sector increased dramatically, which can
be attributed to the split-up and sale of the state-owned food enterprises into independent
units and the entry of new, small and medium-size private enterprises. This had a
positive impact upon the utilization of project funds since dozens of small and medium-
size private enterprises applied for a loan under the Project successfully. Uncertainties
linked to the privatization process led the managers of the state-owned enterprise to
postpone investment decisions until agreements on the development projects can be
reached with the new owners.
*      Foreign investments had a major role in the privatization of a large proportion of food
industry enterprises. The competitiveness and financial performance of these privatized
firms improved due to the considerable resources invested in upgrading the technical,
management and organizational standards of the firms concerned. These investments,
while playing an important role in improving the competitiveness of the Hungarian food
industry, reduced interest of large food companies in applying for the AMP loan.
*      Further specific conditions strengthened the negative impact of the above factors on loan
utilization:
the increase in interest rates;
the availability of sources on more favorable terms -- the JEXIM loan was a case
in point. This latter, due to lower costs of borrowing which should have been
reflected in the onlending agreements between NBH and the commercial banks,
became the more preferable source of borrowing for ventures. The possibility
of financing expenditures not eligible under World Bank financing from, e.g.,



APPENDIX B
Page 6 of 8
the JEXIM line, and supplementing such financing with long term resources
available under the AMP credit line, was adequately communicated to the banks.
Despite the efforts of NBH to proliferate information on the possible
complementarity of World Bank financed credit lines (including the AMP funds)
with these preferential resources, this latter received priority in borrowing
decisions of enterprises.
-      while it is clear that the operational policies of the Bank preclude the possibility
of financing of real estate, used assets and permanent working capital under any
World Bank project, significant demand was reported by the banks on the
financing of such expenditures during project implementation.
14.   The above highlighted major changes in the Hungarian economy as well as the already mentioned
specific conditions affected adversely the utilization of loan proceeds. This required the cancellation of
a part of the loan facility (20 million US Dollars) almost one year prior to the Closing Date.
SUSTAINABiLITY OF THE PROJECT
15.   The Government of Hungary undertook a number of measures in the last four years to facilitate
the recovery of agriculture and the food industry. The measures include (a) changes in institutions and
regulations to enhance the functioning of the markets, and (b) promotion programs for producers,
processors and traders. As a result of the measures taken, several companies carried out development
projects under the Project, and were able to shift their exports from the former CMEA markets to
Western markets and/or increase their convertible exports. The sustainability of the main project
objective in the future is not only a possibility for Hungary, but a "must" considering the share of
agriculture and food industry in the total economy and foreign exchange earnings (together accounting
for one quarter of total exports). It is the declared intention of the Government to increase the value of
exports of agricultural and food products to USD 3 billion per year. The Government launched several
export promotion programs to sustain the export performance of the food sector.
16.   The World Bank assumed, in general, a flexible stand and tried to arrive at a compromise
concerning every issue that might have an impact on the progress of the Project. On the initiative of the
Hungarian counterparts (NBH, commercial banks, MoA), the World Bank:
*     abandoned the strict requirement of export orientation;
*     confirmed that small enterprises in private hands also may become beneficiaries under
AMP;
*      allowed for financing the entire amount of working capital (although set a ceiling: the
total amount used for financing working capital ought not to exceed USD 30 million);
*      increased the ceiling of IS procurement from USD 150,000 to USD 300,000;
*     allowed for financing the purchase of machines and equipment needed for the production
of seeds.
BANK PERFORMANCE
17.   We should highlight the importance and efficiency of continuous dialogue between the Bank and
the Hungarian counterpart in order to improve loan utilization and project implementation. The Bank



APPENDIX B
Page 7 of 8
demonstrated great flexibility in adapting loan conditions to the changed situation in Hungary. As a result
of this work, the above modifications were made to the loan agreement.
18.   A good example of the Bank's flexibility was the speedy and efficient assistance the Bank
provided to the Hungarian Government in 1990 allowing the financing of importation of animal feed in
order to mitigate the consequences of the severe drought under the four existing agricultural credit lines.
19.   The relationship between the Bank and the NBH was good throughout the preparation and the
implementation of the Project. Hungarian institutions received valuable assistance from the Bank staff.
Their continuous assistance in early stages of project implementation in the elaboration of loan
applications reflecting the real financial status of the borrowers, viable options for future development
and realistic assessment of the marketing perspectives are good examples for that.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
20.   During project implementation, substantial progress was made in the achievement of Project
objectives: convertible currency revenues of food-processing companies have been increased, significant
efficiency improvement was recorded at project beneficiaries, policy steps agreed in the context of the
AMP have been met and the institutional background of supporting services -- such as export trade
promotion, raw material and final product grading system, Research and Development and training -- was
established and developed.
21.   Changes in external economic and macroeconomic conditions, however, slowed down the
implementation of the investments component. After 1990 the Project was no longer able to keep pace
with the disbursement schedule projected during loan appraisal.
22.   Even mutual efforts of the Bank and the Hungarian counterpart to adjust the loan conditions to
the changed situation could not counterbalance the impact of the already mentioned serious changes in
the economy. Therefore, in agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture, in 1993 NBH initiated the
cancellation of the loan amount which, according to the future loan demand estimates of the participating
commercial banks, could not have been disbursed by the Closing Date for financing of subprojects. The
Bank, having taken account of the reasons for under-utilization and having been informed on future loan
demand estimates of the banks, agreed to cancel the 20 million US dollar equivalent from the original
loan amount.
23.   Simultaneously with the cancellation, conditions of the Third Industrial Restructuring Project were
changed so as to include, inter alia, the financing of food processing subprojects. Thus the possibility
of growth in investment and loan demand has been reckoned with.
FUTURE OPERATIONS
24.   By the closing date of the Project, the implementation phase of the institutional development
components was completed and the most important project institutions are functional. The sustainability
of the components and their future operation can be guaranteed if the following important problems are
solved:



APPENDIX B
Page 8 of 8
*      The absence of the conditions required for self-financing characterizes all institutions that
have emerged. To varying degrees, each component requires government financing to
establish the conditions required for further continued operation.
*      Due to a change in ownership and privatization, the number of small and medium-size
companies increased significantly in the food industry subsectors. The development of
marketing training centers for managers and their ability to accommodate large numbers
of new entrepreneurs to provide high-level professional training is particularly urgent.
*      To coordinate the further continued operation of project institutions, the incorporation of
necessary developments and the coordination of the new and existing instruments for
financing and implementation, coordinating activities similar to the activities of the
existing project Unit should be maintained.
25.    If the conditions required for the continued operation of the project institutions are put in place,
the operation of the following institutions can be envisaged for the future:
*      Agro-Marketing Office in charge of national food marketing;
-      food industry marketing training centers for managers;
*      Packaging Center;
*      Quality Information Center;
*      new systems of raw materials rating suitable for introduction;
*      new systems for quality control and food testing;
*      launching export-oriented Research and Development projects;
*      a Project Unit, coordinating the operation of the existing project institutions, which keeps
track of their activities and launches new projects.
26.    Due to the redistribution of tasks and authorities among different ministries, the majority of
institutions set up and operated under the Project -- except for the Packaging Center, Quality Information
Center and the Project Unit -- have been gotten out of the auspices of the MoA.
27.    The professional relationship with these institutions and relevant ministries, however, will be
maintained further on by the MoA. Activities of the above referenced institutions are carried out mainly
on a market basis. If they are involved in the performance of public tasks as well, the financing of such
scope of activities is beyond the control of the MoA.
m:\hun\amptext.525



15                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~                    ~~                         ~~~~~~HU NG A RY  20                     Lo.                        22                            8D70
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT                                                                                                                     ,, 'f' .... ,'U.od UK RA INE
MOTORWAYS               NATIONAL CAPITAL                        ,BORSOD ABA UJ- SlrlrubA'
M^AIN ROADS        t3 COUNTY IM3EGYE) CAPllALS'                                     J       ZEMPLEN        ,                  
RAILROADS           OTEMAO  lI                                            l un_>        _
CANALS                  COUNTY IMEGYEt BOUNDARIES jt)     V  sod'
Id ~~~Z/'t- c
'~~~~~~~~~I. Z- IA f                            E    E.O   UGS\I                                                                                             ';
10  ?0  30  *0  50  60  70  80 KILOKErErS   ~ , _ _  ^   t <  rO o,,l   \   .                                       '~' i                                     s3'                Ac.Er;E k.-d
o  1 0  20    30    40    50 rdlLES                            -ARO
ZTR           O d                                                                      !IUNEj     









I   '; I hG
Repcort No:       14729
Type: ICF



