Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LAl 2'3a-,tJ
Report No. 7091-HU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
April 11, 1988
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Country Department IV
Agriculture Operations
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1              =        Forint 46
Ft 1                      US$0.02
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 liter                               0.908 quart
1 hectoliter         =                 100 liters
1 hectoliter         _                 3.53 cubic feet
1 metric ton         =                 1,102 short tons
1 kilogram           =                2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGROBER      -     Agricultural Construction and Engineering Firm
AKI          -     Research Institute of Agricultural Econom-,cs
BCB          -     Budapest Credit Bank
CCB          -     Commercial and Credit Bank
EEC          -     European Economic Community
HCB          -     Hungarian Credit Bank
HUNGEXPO    -      Agency for Trade Fairs & Export Promotion
KOMPLEX      -     Agroindustrial Equipment Foreign Trading Company
KOPINT       -     Institute for Market Research
MEM          -     Ministry of Agriculture
MT           -     Ministry of Trade
NBH          -     National Bank of Hungary
NPO          -     National Planning Office
UHFI         -     University of Horticultural and Foud Industries
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONILY
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                            Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUM     MARY.                        .. . .i-iv
I. INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            1
II.  BACKGROUND ON AGROPROCESSING . . . . . . . . . . . .           2
A.  Sector Overview. . . . . . .  . .  . . . .* . .            2
B.  Export Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           3
C.  OrganiLation and Firm Size . . . . . . . . . . .           5
D.  International Competitiveness  . . . . . . . . .           6
E. Linkage with Government's Reform Program . . . .            6
III.  POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES  . . . . . . . . . .           8
A. Sector and Subsector Development Strategies  . .            8
B.  Trade-Related Issues . . . . . . . . . . . ...            11
C. Financial Issues ....  .  .  .    . . .  . . .  .          13
D. Institutional Issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           17
E.  Impact of Bank Lending in Agriculture  . . . . .          19
IV. THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            20
A.  Concept, Design and Objectives . . . . . . . . .          20
B.  Project Description  . .  0 . . . . . . .   . . .         21
C.  Cost and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          22
D.  Procurement   .     .   .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  . . .      24
E.  Bank Loan Allocation and Disbursement  . . . . .          26
F.  Envirormental Impact . . . t  . . . . . . .    .          27
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .      .  .  .  .  .  ..  . .         28
A.  Organization of Implementation . . . . . . . . .          28
B. Intermediary Banks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           30
C.  Subloan Criteria and Onlending Terms . . . . . .          31
D.  Technical Assistance and Training  . . . . . . .          32
E.  Reporting and Auditing . . . . . . . . . . . . .          35
This report was prepared by Wayne Ringlien (mission leader), Franco Lucca,
Vance Pulley (Bank) and James Tustin (Consultant).
This document ha a restricted diribution and may be used by recipients only In the peorfoman
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dbclosed wkhout Wordd BDnk authodrtion.



Chapter                                                             Page No.
VI.    FINANCIAL RESULTS, PRODUCTION AND MARKETS . . . . . . .        36
A.  Financial Results.. . . . . .          ....  .             36
B.  Production  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        39
C.  Marketing and Markets . . . .   .   . . . . .  a . .       40
VII.    JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       44
A.  Results of Economic Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . .        44
B. Major Risks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         47
VIII.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . .       47
ANNEXES
1. Export Market Performance for Selected Products
2. Barriers to Entry into EEC Market
3. System of Prices, Taxes and Subsidies
4. Financial Ratios for Selected US and Hungarian
Agroprocessing and Wood Processing Subsectors for 1986
5. Financial Projections for Poultry, Processed Fruits
and Vegetables, Wine, and Wood Products to 1995
6. Subsector Grading and Quality Control
7. Food Industries Research and Development Facility
8. Management and Marketing Training
9. Issues concerning Feeder Industries
10. Detailed Cost Table
11. Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
12. Business Plan at EnterpriLe Level
13. Swmnary of Projected Financial Statements
- Commercial and Credit Bank
- Budapest Credit and Development Bank
- Hungarian Credit Bank
14.  Active Market_ng Component
15. Specific Product-Market Export Prospects
16. Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD 19989 - Location of Potential Project Enterprises
IBRD 19990 - Location of Raw Material Supply



- I -
HUNGARY
AGROPROCEING MODERMZATION PROJECT
LU and Proi ummt
Barrower.              National Bank of Hungary (NBH)
Guarantor               Hungarian People's Republic
About 70 agroprocessing and wood processing enterprises
Aimount:               US$70 million equivalent
Terum                   Fifteen years, including three years grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
OkffleadiM Tern=       US$64.5 million of the proposed loan would be onlent
through intermediary banks to state enterprises and
cooperatives for a maximum period of 10 years,
including a maximum of 3 years grace. NBH will onleud
the loan proceeds to intermediary banks at the
prevailing Bank rate plus a 20X mark-up which includes
a fee for the foreign exchange risk to be borne by NBH,
or at its rediscount rate, whichever is higher. At
present, NBI would make the funds available to the
banks at its rediscount rate, which is currently 10.5l
and therefore higher than the Bank's current interest
rate plus a 20S mark-up. US$5.5 million equivalent
will be lent to Government and its agencies for
financing marketing, training, research and
development, packaging and quality standards and
grading of raw materials and processed products on the
sam  term  as the Bank loan.
Proeot                 The objective of the project is to increase export
earnings of processed agricultural products,
particularly, to the convertible currency market, by
improving their quality and to improve the efficiency
of operations of enterprises in the agroprocessing
sector by reducing their unit costs of operations and
improving their productivity. The project would also
support training and technical services in order to
prepare managers of the enterprises to become directly
involved with the marketing and sale of products to
their customers. Based on completed export market
studies and the results from a workshop on marketing
and technology held in Budapest in June 1987,
enterprises would develop product and market strategies
which would indicate the type of investment required by
them over the medium-term for improving product quality



-ii-
and increase market penetration. Equipment to
modernize processing lines, packag4;g, canning,
bottling, chilling, freezing and cold storage would be
the major areas for plant improvement under the
project. The improvement of feeder industries which
supply goods to agroprcoessing plants would also be
encouraged under the project. Project components
include institutional strengthening of existing efforts
in research and development, grading and setting
product standards and of new efforts in packaging
technology and testing of final product quality. The
Mi"istry of Trade would establish in Hungexpo an
agro-marketing office for export trade promotion and
marketing to provide export and marketing services to
enterprises.
Proiect Benerits
arA Risks:              The economic benefit would be a restructuring of the
most important agroprocessing enterprises in the
country toward those products in which Hungary has the
best export market possibilities. The project would
improve the marketing and technology of processed foods
and wood which would improve their quality and reduce
cosLs of production. Agroprocessing enterprises would
fight to retain their existing markets of products
already under production, while at the same time
develop new products and the skills to package and
market them so that additional agroprocessing products
will be sold on the export market, and thus, increase
the foreign exchange earnings to the country. The
project faces three sets of risks: (a) at the macro
level, policy and institutional reforms may lack the
intensity and sequencing required for movements towards
a market-oriented system. The risk is being minimized
by the current Government commitment and the ongoing,
continuous dialogue between the Bank and Hungarian
officials on policy and institutional reforms; (b) at
the micro level, traditional practices may delay the
response by managers and employees of productive
enterprises to the freeing of prices and reduction in
corporate taxation and subsidies. Supporting services
such as export trade promotion, raw material and final
product grading system, research and development, and
training will help to accelerate changes in the
behavior of managers; and (c) at the international
level, unfavorable terms of trade and tariff and
non-tariff barriers may limit Hungarian exporters'
ability to increase sales abroad. Apart from the
import tariffs and the specific regulation regime under
its Common Agricultural Policy, export opportunities to
the Comminity are also limited by the general status of
production and imports in the EEC, and in some
products, the market shares of Hungary are already so



-iii-
high, or the porportion of extra-EEC imports in total
trade is so low, that large incremental exports are
likely to be difficult. But, in spite of these
constraints to trade, Hungary's overall performance in
the EEC market showed improvement between 1980 and
1987. Hungarians can cope with thesu exogenous factors
by imk,roving the quality and servicing of their
products; the signing of a trade agreement, which is
under active consideration with the EEC, is also
expected to improve access to EEC markets. Finally,
environmental risks of water and air polluW.ion are
reduced as enterprises are finding it more economical
to install pollution control devices rather than pay
the charges, assessed by Government for pollution.
Estimated Costs:
Local /a      Foreign       Total
----------(US$ Million)-
Wine & Fruit Juice                    17.8            16.9         34.7
Processed Vegetables & Fruits         11.6            12.2         23.8
Poultry                               28.1            28.5         56.6
Wood Processing                       11.9            17.0         28.9
Technical Assistance                   3.2             5.5          8.7
Marketing                              1.3             6.2          7.5
TOTAL                               73.9            86.3        160.2
/a Including an estimated US$32.8 million of taxes and duties.
Financing Plan:
Local         ForeiRn       Total
----------(US$ Million)-
IBRD                                   -              70.0         70.0
Government                             3.2              -           3.2
Commercial Banks                      36.8            16.3         53.1
Project Beneficiaries                 33.9              -          33.9
TOTAL                               73.9            86.3        160.2



- iv -
Estimated Disbwments:
IIRD FY
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
-----------(s(S$ Million)
Anual              8.0    12.0    15.5    15.5    11.0       8.0
Cumulative         8.0    20.0    35.5    51.0    62.0    70.0
MAPS:                   IBRD# 19989
IBRD # 19990
Economic Rate
of Return              Average of 33S per investmaent with ranges between 16S
and 57%



HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
L INTRODUCTION
1.01      The three agricultural projects in Hungary financed by the World
Bank to date have concentrated mainly on grain production and storage,
livestock production and export marketing, and farm mechanization, with major
emphasis on upgrading deteriorated and obsolete equipment at the farm as well
as the agroprocessirg levels. As part of the macroeconomic dialogue on
economic reform, the Bank is becoming more strategically involved with policy
analysis in the agricultural sector, which is being implemented by the
Ministry of Agriculture (MEM) and its related agencies. The proposed project
grew out of the dialogue to respond to the urgent need for Hungary to expand
its earnings from convertible currency exports of agricultural and
agroprocessed products on an increasingly competitive world market. The
objectives of the project comrlement the restructuring of the industrial
sector which is underway with the assistance of a series of Bank-financed
industrial sector loans, two of which are under implementation.
1.02      The proposed Agroprocessing Modernization Project seeks to increase
the country's foreign exchange earnings by reorientating the operations of
agroprocessing firms, especially the large ones, toward those products which
present the best opportunities on the export market (paras 6.09-6.25), while
at the same time seeking concrete ways in which enterprises can reduce their
costs of production and increase the productivity of capital and labor. In
order for those desirable changes to occur, Government will need to intensify
the implementation of key economic reforms in the critical areas of reduction
of subsidies to loss-making enterprises, trade, investment, wages and credit
as well as permit enterpri¶.e managers increased financiai autonomy and
responsibility for operational matters. At the agroprocessing enterprise
level, it is necessary to introduce modern business planning regarding
product/market strategies, technology, management tools of analysis and
effective organization. Under the project, enterprises are expected to be
responsible for their own profits or losses but will be supported by expanded
and improved services of export trade promotion, training in management and
marketing, grading and quality control of raw materials as well as final
products and research and development.
1.03      The project was appraised in October/November 1987 after two
detailed preparation vmissions (November 1986 and February 1987) which included
the completion of international market studies by country and by product, a
workshop on marketing and technology (June 1987) of international caliber and
the preparation of five subsector strategy reviews in poultry, processed
fruits and vegetables, wine, fruit juices, and wood processing, which were
carried out by a joint expatriate-local venture cf A.L. Little (US) and
Szenxor (Hungary), consulting companies under contract with MEM.



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND ON AGROPROCESSING
A. Sectoral Overview
2.01      Over the past two decades the Hungarian agroprocessing sector has
played an important role in the country's development. The agricultural,
including agroprocessing, and forestry sectors accounted for 20Z of GDP, 22Z
of employment and 30% of convertible currency exports; it is a "hard" currency
sector since it earrs about 30% of all convertible-denominated trade to the
country; and only 18% of all ruble-denominated trade as opposed to
manufacturing which earns the same share of convertible currency, but accounts
for over 75% of ruble-denominated trade.   Agriculture, in the mid-to-late
1970s, received a substantial chunk of investment which was associated with
some technical and organizational changes at the enterprise level; it
sustained agricultural growth at 3.7% p.a. from 1970 to 1982. Since 1982,
however, average annual growth in agricultural GDP has slowed considerably.
While a large part of the recent stagnation in agriculture is weather and
external-market determined, the simultaneous occurrence and persistence of
sevreral factors has served to highlight certain critical issues which have to
be faced. They broadly cover three areas of activity:
a)   renewal of capital stock for productive subsectors which have
supported significant depletion because of the tight demand
management policies adopted since 1979;
b)   complicated pricing, taxation and subsidy measures and the
complex financial influence exercised by government over state
farms and enterprises and, to a lesser extent, over the
cooperatives; and
c)   need for restructuring of farms and enterprises in order to
improve their efficiency and performance, particularly, with
reference to exports.
These broad themes which cover the agricultural sectGr as well as the
agroprocessing sector are being pursued by the Bank as the key discussion
points with Government.
2.02      During the 1970s, the agroprocessing sector continued to produce
traditional goods under the assumption that increasing volumes could
compensate for declining world prices grew at an average rate of 4.5% p.a.
which lagged behind overall industrial growth. This growth rate was partly
attributable to the decision by Government to expand the agroprocessing sector
under the Fifth Five-year Plan (1976-81) in order to increase the country's
capacity to further process primary agricultural production, which had
expanded rapidly during the early 1970s. In 1981-87, however, growth slowed
down in the manufacturing sector (1.6Z p.a.) as well as in the agroprocessing
sector (1.4% p.a.). Severe winters, droughts and the price collapse of some
of Hungary's majoz export products (meat, wheat and vegetable oil) in
international markets contributed to this decline. Wood-processing industries
showed a similar pattern in that this rates of growth was relatively high



- 3 -
(6.21 p.a.) in the 1970s, but fell in the 1980s (-1.0% p.a.) mainly due to a
15% p.a. decline in the prices of sawn wood and plywood, reflecting a major
decline in construction on the domestic as well as their export markets. The
subsectors which stand out as the best performers during the 1980s in the
agroprocessing sector, in terms of annual growth rates greater than the 4%
p.a. were distilling and starch, beer, vegetable oil, and poultry. Declines
were experienced in the five subsectors of: meat, wheat milling, sugar,
confectionaries and wineries.
B. Export Performance
2.03      Hungarian exports of agroprocessed products amounted to about
US$1,200 million both in 1986 and 1987, which was about two-thirds of
agricultural exports; the agricultural sector as a whole accounted for 201 of
total exports from the country. The most important markets for Hungarian
agricultural and agroindustrial products are socialist countries, primarily
the CMEA. These markets account for over 532 of sales revenue in the sector
compared to 40% from sales to developed capitalist countries and 6% from those
to developing countries. Sales revenue from exports of agricultural products
nevertheless represents an important source of convert ble foreign exchange --
251 of the total for the economy. During the 1980s, an average two-thirds of
the foreign exchange earnings generated in the sector were denominated in
convertible currency and about one-third was denominated in roubles.
2.04      The apparent contradiction between the large market share held by
the CMEA and high proportion of convertible currency-denominated trade in
agriculture is explained by the fact that a portion of Hungary's exports to
the CMEA are denominated in dollars rather than transferable rubles. Although
the proportion of total Hungarian exports to the CMEA that are denominated and
cleared in convertible currency was only 20% in 1985, the corresponding
proportion for agriculture was 462. In 1986, data shows substantial
deterioration for Hungary with only 331 of agricultural trade with socialist
countries denominated in convertible currency. One notable contributor to the
trend was the poultry subsector which received much less favorable treatment
on exports to other CMEA countries in 1986.
2.05      Although agroprocessed exports stagnated from 1983-85, they have
expanded at an impressive average annual rate of 4.81 during the period
1979-1986. This exceeded the rate of growth in total exports, which was only
2.61 p.a. Agricultural exports enjoy large subsidies from the Government --
as much as 341 in 1987 for sales to non-CMEA markets and perhaps even higher
on sales to the CMEA, depending on the domestic price which Hungarian export
enterprises could receive for their products.
2.06      The most important agroprocessing export commodities are processed
meat products including poultry, which accounted for about one half of sales
of agroprocessed exports in 1986. Sizeable, but considerably lower
contributions to exports were made by beverages, tobacco and other products
(201), canned fruit3, vegetables and spices (191) and vegetable oil (91).
Baking, milling, sugar, confectionaries and sweets represented only negligible
components of agroprocessing exports. As for the products covered by the
proposed project, Table 1 below shows that these groups accounted for US$ 693
million equivalent in 1986.



Table 1: EXPORT VALUE OF SELECTED PRODUCT GROUPS
IN AGkOPROCESSING AND WOOD-PROCESSN!¢G
Total S growth/decline
Product Group                 1984       1985     1986    between 1084-86
----(in US$ '000)----
Poultry and Products           203.3    201.8      243.4           19.7
Wine                           187.2    193.7       149.4         -20.1
Processed Fruits                68.1      79.5      93.9           37.9
Processed Vegetables            93.0    119.1      139.9           50.4
Pulp Wood                       31.4      35.2       39.1          24.5
Parquet Flooring                  7.2      7.4        9.9          37.5
Sawn Wood                         7.6      7.1       8.4           10.5
Plywood, Veneers, Logs           5.3       6.1       8.9           67.8
for Processing
TOTAL                       603.0    649.5      692.9           14.9
Source: Hungarian Trade Yearbook, Budapest 1984-86.
2.07     All of these product groups showed impressive increases in foreign
exchange earnings between 1984 and 1987 except wine, which declined by 20X
between 1984 and 1986 due to poor harvests in 1985-86 and a sobriety campaign
initiated in the Soviet Union, Hungary's largest market for wine exports.
2.08     On the non-CMEA markets, forty-two percent of the value of the listed
products represented exports to the EEC, 24S to other industrial markets aad
34S elsewhere, mainly the Middle East and North Africa. Given the small size
of Hungary's economy, it has basically no influence on the pricing structure
abroad and has to content itself with the role of a price taker.
Nevertheless, Hungary's overall performance in the EEC market showed
improvement between 1980 and 1987, and Government is actively negotiating a
trade agreement with the EEC Commission (para. 3.12). This includes Hungary's
principal export items of fresh, chilled and frozen meats and meat products.
Other products such as canned meat, aad vegetable oil did less well but were
able to maintain their market share. Despite this performance, Hungarian
foreign trading organizations have not been innovative or risk-taking in the
export of agroprocessed products as they tend to sell products through
exclusive rights to a foreign agent under long-term contracts, and in this
sense, become order takers rather than aggressive marketers. Although the
proposed project encompasses all enterprises in agroindustry which satisfy the
onlending criteria, 5 subsectors have been targeted on the basis of their
share of exports, recent performance in this area, or their potential for
significantly increasing sales to convertible currency markets. The export
performance of these subsectors viz., poultry, processed fruits & vegetables,



-5-
wine, fruit juices, and wood processed products is reviewed individually in
Annex 1.
C. Orianization and Firm Size
QCganization
2.09     The government began decentralizing the food industry in the early
1980s by breaking up 10 subsectoral trusts which had maintained wiie-ranging
authority over member firms' decisions in such strategic areas as production,
export and investment, and by introducing enterprise management reforms in
1985. The primary goal of these reforms was to improve firms' efficiency and
profitability by increasing their financial responsibility and managerial
independence. Only the grain and dairy subsectors continue to retain the
trust form of organization. There are 1,375 individual enterprises involved
in food processing, including a large number of state farms and cooperatives
which carry out some processing of primary production, a few small private
firms, and 199 large, state-owned agroprocessing firms, which represent about
80% of production. The structure of the wood processing industry is rather
distinct from agroprocessing firms with more enterprises (68%) organized as
cooperatives and most falling under the regulatory framework of the Ministry
of Industry rather than MEM.
Firm Size
2.10     High concentration of production exists in both agroprocessing and
Hungarian industry as a whole, with large agricultural enterprises employing
more than 300 workers representing more than 95% of the gross value of
production in 1984. Although the number of large enterprises within the
industrial sector has remained basically constant (56%), the number of firms
employing more than 300 workers within the agroprocessing sector increased
dramatically from 36% in 1965 to 85% in 1984.
2.11     Moderate to significant economies of scale exist in canning and
poultry, the two project subsectors where size significantly exceeds industry
norms on a per plant basis. Wood processing firms, which are predominantly
cooperatives, on average tend to be significantly smaller and fall below the
norm for Hungarian industry. The possible inefficiencies associated with a
high degree of concentration in Hungarian agroindustry result from their link
to non-competitive behavior and high cost production structures. The lack of
competition in the past is likely to have contributed to the sector's low
productivity performance and reduced growth below its potential. The success
of the tax reform and other measures in decentralizing the economy and
strengthening profit orientation will be determined to a large extent by the
government's willingness to reduce the degree of industrial concentration and
thereby increase competition among firms. The dismantling of the trusts will
reduce barriers to entry and exit in agroprocessing. Tne promulgation in
January 1988 of the new law allowing the establishment of limited liability
corporations should also ease the entry of small and medium sized enterprises,
including agroprocessing, into industrial and agricultural activities. A Law
of Association has also been promulgated which permits the establishment of
joint ventures between cooperatives and/or private individuals, foreign
companies and state enterprises.



- 6 -
D. International Competitiveness
2.12     As about half of Hungary's GNP is derived from foreign trade, all
sectors must attempt to contribute to the overall trade balance by exploiting
international comparative advantages which are inherent in Hungary's current
level of technology in transforming products and in factor endowments. In
addition, the Hungarians need to compensate for shortcomings by selling in
competitive areas through aggressive and penetrating marketing methods and
techniques. Based on average domestic resource costs (DRCs) estimated for
1981, 1983 and 1986, those project product groups, currently being produced
and exported, which are most competitive on the international market are fruit
juices, wood products, cherries and apricots. The least competitive project
product groups are vegetables and broilers. Increased export earnings from
poultry sales will depend on the development of new products derived from
chicken such as fresh and chilled poultry including ducks and turkey, and
poultry parts. Vegetable exports will largely depend on ef' ttve demand from
convertible currency markets and on the response of agroprotl -ing enterprise
managers to produce higher quality products, which are packaged to take
advantage of market niches.
E. Linkage with Goverment's Reform o
2.13     In support if a comprehensive five-year industry policy reform
program in an environment of increased fiscal austerity, a series of
industrial restructuring projects financed by the Bank have been initiated in
Hungary to improve industrial efficiency through increased competition,
enhanced reliance on market forces and increased enterprise autonomy. Because
of the importance of industry in the Hungarian economy and the "systemic"
nature of the policy changes, the reforms being implemented have also
important implications for the agricultural and, especially, the
agroprocessing sectors. Of the eleven policy areas being discussed with
Government under the ongoing industrial restructuring loans 1/ from the Bank,
and in the current dialogue between the Bank and Government, five are
particularly relevant for the agricultural and agroprocessing sectors.
(a)    Entry and liquidation of enterprises--to encourage competition
and encourage the mobility of productive resources. Action on
these lines, which has already occurred in 1986 in the case of
meat, with the breakup of marketing and trade monopolies, is the
fundamental policy reform required for the creation of a
business environment and the provision of incentives to managers
of enterprises, to maintain their market shares, to expand new
product lines and to improve enterprise profitability in the
medium-term.
(b)    Improved pricing, incentive and taxation policies to (i) promote
market-based allocation of resources through price deregulation,
and (ii) rationalize the taxes and subsidies system to improve
1/ See the SAR for the Hungary Second Industrial Restructuring Project,
Report No. 6643-HU, Table 3.1, May 15, 1987.



-7-
cost efficiency and remove in:entive distortions. Since January
1988, the proportion of on-farm producers prices that are in the
fixed category of the Materials and Pricing Board was reduced
from 50% to about 10% and consumer food prices from 55% to 252;
all subsidies for agricultural inputs except fertilizer have
been eliminated. Furthermore, comprehensive economy-wide tax
reforms are being introduced. The impending standardization of
income taxation and the introduction of the value-added tax
would directly have positive effects on the profitability of
efficiently managed agricultural enterprises, but have negative
effects on loss-making enterprises. The elimination of all
subsidies on commercial inputs, except fertilizer, may also
increase the cost pressure on agricultural enterprises but the
government hopes that the reduction (and, in several cases, the
elimination) of consumer subsidies would compensate for these
disincentive effects. In any case, further decontrol of prices
(away from cost plus pricing) is likely to improve the business
climate for enterprise performance. The impact of these changes
is analyzed in paras. 3.17 - 3.20.
(c)    Liberalization of foreign trade in 1988, now permits interested
enterprises to acquire direct foreign trading rights either on
an individual basis or through joint trading houses formed by
two or more enterprises. Enterprises are rewarded with positive
incentives for exports to the convertible currency market such
as export subsidies, tax rebates, and duty drawbacks. But there
are virtually no commensurate penalties for enterprise managers
to pay, such as bankruptcy or loss of management positions
within enterprises if the enterprise stays with the CMEA markets
even when threatened with future losses. This inertia of
enterprise managers has left convertible currency trade
promotion in the hands of foreign trading companies which do not
control product supply and act only as marketing agents of
enterprises. While these problems are particularly pronounced
in the agroprocessing sector, they are present in other
sectors. The Bank is addressing these issues under a
macro-economic dialogue with the Hungarians which includes:
(a) e medium-term program to phase out all forms of support to
ineftAcient or loss-making enterprises; and (b) an export
promotion program which would provide additional incentives to
exporters such as devaluation of the forint against convertible
currencies, access to direct foreign trading rights, and import
competition.
(d)    Wage regulations continue to be tightly controlled by
Government, based on the view that strict demand management is
one of the key actions required by economic managers for growth
and stability. Currently, wage regulation in the agricultural
and agroprocessing sectors differs from the other sectors and
the rest of the economy which is set at an overall rate of 32 in
wage increases for 1988; these sectors will tie wage increases
to improvement in productivity and any increases in excess of
such improvement will meet with prohibitive taxes.
(e) Increasing financial autonomy of enterprises and the
corresponding decline of the traditional practice of assigning



production quotas without regard to cost constitutes two of the
most critical areas for renewed growth and development of those
enterprises which are, particularly, inte nationally
competitive. Financial discipline of enterprise is to be
strengthen by the threat of bankruptcy and management's greater
accountability for its profits and losses. While the
establishment of a commercial banking system in 1987 is evidence
of movement toward improving the financial institutional
environment, Government continues to exercise a strict control
over credit policy and foreign exchange through the NBH. Under
its macro-economic dialogue with the Bank, the Hungariara are
making progress on permitting enterprises to have greater access
to foreign exchange than previously was the case and are
committed to introducing reforms in the banking system which
would gradually shift greater responsibility to the commercial
banks for the management of their operations without the current
influence exercised by the NBH. These issues are being
discussed under the proposed Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan.
Efforts under the project will, essentially, help deepen these economic
restructuring efforts in the agroprocessing sector.
M. POLICY AND ThTSTITUTIONAL REFORMS
A. Sector and Selected Subsector Development Strategies
Sector
3.01     The strategy for developing the agricultural and agroprocessing
sectors falls within the objectives of the Seventh Five-year Development Plan
and the efforts under the industrial restructuring program with consideration
given to the special characteristics, roles and problems facing agriculture.
In addition to contributing to economic growth and export earnings,
agriculture has played a critical role in income dittribution and reducing the
population and employment pressure on the large cities. Development strategy
in agriculture and agroprocessing is based on four fundamental sets of
policies and actions:
(a)  liberalization and support of trade with the convertible
currency markets;
(b)  improvement of the incentive system facing enterprise managers
in terms of prices, taxes and subsidies;
(c)  identification and implementation of those actions in the areas
of the production, processing, marketing chain which reduce
costs, promote efficiency and emphasize products which have the
best export market prospects at internationally competitive
prices; and
(d)  introduction of management-labor systems in agriculture and
agroprocessing enterprises which provide more effective use of
land, particularly of the cooperatives, and use of capital for
meeting specific production targets based on market forces.



- 9 -
These four policy areas are the focus of the Bank's discussions with
Government on agricultural and agroprocessing policy, and are being followed
up with Government.
Selected Subsectors
3.02     Poultry.  The poultry br, .ch of agroindustry is not internationally
competitive at present. Subsidies of about US$108 million equivalent, 30X of
gross production value, were provided in 1986 to enable processors to maintain
exports and domestic sales at current depressed price levels in the face of
negative value added which totalled US$34 million. International
broilerprices have fallen substantially since 1983. Nevertheless, major
indicators of efficiency of the poultry show Hungary lagging behind its major
competitors in world markets.
3.03     Improving feed formulation is a prerequisite to achieving
competitiveness for poultry. Average feed conversion ratios are below and
mortality rates, and days to slaughter recorded in Hungary are substantially
above those recorded for the United States. The two most critical factors
contributing to this poor performance are inadequate supply of high protein
soymeal required for feeds and government maintenance of high prices on
imported protein in order to conserve foreign exchange and promote domestic
production. The artificially high price of soymeal results in inefficient
substitution of grain for soymeal in feeds which lowers protein content. The
government maintains a defacto quota on imports through import licensing and
control over foreign exchange. The total soymeal deficit for the country in
1987 is estimated at 100,000 tons, appoximately 20% of imports. Increasing
soymeal imports and the supply available to poultry producers at lower prices
are essential at least in the short- to medium-term if Hungary is to improve
production efficiency and profitability and reduce the budgetary drain caused
by the subsidies. Otherwise, current levels of poultry production should be
reduced in line with appropriate feed supplies. In the longer term, the new
IFC-financed, lysine facility scheduled for full development by 1992 and
increasing domestic production would help reduce import requirements, but the
economic viability of domestic soybean production is yet to be proven. Local
costs of soymeal prnduction are currently 15-20% higher than importing. High
mortality rates in Hungary can also be improved through better veterinary
practices and better care during transport to the processor.
3.04     Processed Fruits and Vegetables.  As in the case of poultr<, groos
value added for the canning and preserving branch of agroprocessing was
negative in 1986 by US$43 million equivalent, but the amount of subsidies
(US$190 million) from the central government necessary to ensure profitability
and solvency for enterprises was almost double that of poultry. One of the
reasons for these high subsidies is the relatively low international price
assigned to processed fruit and vegetable exports to the USSR. Nevertheless,
the need for restructuring and new investment targeted to achieve
international competitiveness in convertible currency markets is urgent in the
case of processed fruits and vegetables. The key constraints on achieving
competitiveness include:
(a)  high import content (701) of convertible currency exports;
(b)  financial burden imposed by high inventories;
(c)  lack of uniform quality of raw materials;
(d)  need to invest in modern processing technology and expertise; and
(e)  inefficient organization of plant, production lines, and
training of labor.



- 10 -
3.05     The most important cause of the first two constraints is the weakness
of domestic feeder industries which provide glass, jars* cans, packaging,
additives and other ingredients for processed products. This issue is not
exclusive to this branch, but affects wine and many other agroprocessed
exports. Two problems with packaging are evident throughout the food
processing industry; poor quality and unreliable supply. The latter causes
enterprises to hold large inventories in order to guarantee that production
schedules and supply contracts can be met, but this imposes high financial
costs and efficiency losses. The poor quality of packaging also affects the
pos.tioning of Hungarian products in international markets and results in a
lower price, irrespective of the quality of the contents of the product. This
leads many importers of Hungarian products in convertible markets to provide
their own labels and packaging and implement expensive quality control
measures at the Hungarian factory, thus raising their transaction costs.
Although the import of labels and other packaging material does not result in
an outflow of foreign exchange, it reduces the domestic value added and
incremental foreign exchange earned by the branch due to lower net prices paid
by importers. It also contributes to the very high import content for these
products.
3.06     Two steps are necessary to improve this situation; first, greater
competition among enterprises in feeder industries is needed so as to improve
the quality and supply of products and services they provide to agroindustry;
second, modernization of these industries is required to upgrade industrial
design, graphics, and domestic content of convertible currency exports. These
steps are particularly pertinent to this project in respect of the feeder
industries involved in the production of glass bottle, jars, metal cans and
lids, cardboard and other laminated and coated paper containers and printed
labels and aluminum foils. The four largest processed fruits and vegetables
plants operate their own can manufacturing departments to overcome the
problems of reliability of supply and they supply cans to the smaller
processing plants, but suffer from underinvestment, fully depreciated
equipment, and inefficient management.
3.07     Over staffing in his branch has resulted from industry attempts to
satisfy peak labor demands with full time employees and growth in
administrative staff has not been commensurate with increased quality or
volume of output. The modernization of plant and equipment and reorganization
of production expected to take place through this project will, if successful,
likely exacerbate the problems of redundant labor. Enterprises will,
therefore, need to carry out a manpower assessment and make a medium-term
training and employment plan as part of the business plan attached to their
subloan application.
3.08     Wine.  Unlike canning and preserving, 95% of packaging materials in
this branch are procured domestically. This situation is facilitated by the
fact that 85% value of wine is shipped to convertible markets in bulk, and
packaging requirements for such products are less rigorous than for bottled
wine. The steps outlined earlier for improving the quality and services of
feeder industries including glass bottles, labels, boxes, and corks are also
essential if this branch is to launch a successful effort to market higher
value bottled wines and champagnes in convertible currency markets.
3.09     As in the case of processed fruits and vegetables, improving feeder
industry is a necessary, though insufficient, condition for achieving
competitiveness in these product lines. In addition, new investment will be



- 11 -
needed to modernize physical and chemical wine treatment methods including
heat and filtration. An estimated 50% of equipment in the industry is fully
depreciated. Investment is also needed to expand storage capacity and upgrade
its standards. Current capacity is insufficient and almost two-thirds fails
to meet western hygienic standards. Improvements in quality control and
laboratory testing facilities are also needed. Enterprises will be required
to submit a qualification statement from MONIMPEX, the relevant FTO, to the
lending commercial bank confirming that the enterprise has equipment in place,
or that it will be procured under the subloan, in order to carry out necessary
quality control tests on both raw materials used in processing and the
finished product itself.
3.10     The final area in which greater attention and financing is needed is
marketing. Again, while this concern applies to all branches included under
the project, the issue is highlighted in this branch since bottled wines are
not currently marketed in convertible markets to any great extent.
Enterprises and the responsible foreign trading organizations must therefore
make a strong commitment in terms of human and financial resources to
undertake an aggressive product promotion campaign to launch Hungarian bottled
wine in the convertible currency markets (paras. 6.15-6.16).
3.11     Wood Processing.  The problems facing wood products are somewhat
different from the agroprocessed products. Principally, there is a strong
demand on the international market for wood products, particularly for the
hard woods which are indigenous to Hungary, despite the heavy felling program
for the last ten years. The most important issue is to maximize the return
from production and exports by better processing and marketing and by ensuring
that each product is sold in the best market. The main export items are sawn
timber for packaging and for furniture structures, fiber board supply and both
traditional and panel parquet. There are some fifty companies with direct
export licenses; virtually all of them are in need of replacement equipment
with modern technology which would ensure less waste and greater efficiency in
the manufacturing process.
B. Trade-Related Issues
EEC Barriers to Entry
3.12     The barriers to entry faced by Hungary in its export markets
(especially the EEC) are comprised of tariffs and quantitative restrictions,
as well as of non-tariff barriers (e.g., legal, hygienic requirements). In
general, the EEC, which receives about 402 of agroprocessed exports, imposes
an average 107 tariff on raw materials and 257 on processed goods.  Hungary
must compete with other more favored exporting countries (ACP members,
countries of the Mediterranean rim), but in the type of temperate climate
exports Hungary produces, it does not face more restriction than any of its
competitors. But since 1980, world growing supplies of agroprocessed products
and tightening demand have created a buyer's market. Hungarians can cope with
those exogenous factors through the improvement in the quality and servicing
of their products on export markets and signing of a trade agreement with the
EEC, which is under active discussions between the Hungarians and the
representatives of the EEC and is expected to improve the Hungarian position
on the EEC market. The trade agreement is expected to halt discrimination
against Hungarian exports by EEC countries and develop understandings between
Hungary and EEC on a series of important products, which include agroprocessed
goods. EEC trade restrictions will continue to constrain Hungarian exports to
the Community, but exporters are finding ways to find the niches for



- 12 -
agroprocessed products by evidence of export improvement in the EEC between
1980 and 1987. See Annex 2 for greater detail on barriers to entry into the
EEC for Hungarian agroprocessed goods.
Lack of Trade Promotion Services
3.13     Government-controlled Foreign Trading Organizations (FTO) manage all
product flows to the CMEA market and, until recently, controlled virtually all
export sales of agroprocessed goods to convertible currency markets. They
work through well-established agents and basically take orders which are
conveyed back to the processing plants. HUNGEXPO is an autonomous agency of
the Ministry of Trade MT and is responsible for trade fairs and the "Gutes aus
Ungarn" program, which is an advertising program under which high quality
goods are labelled and sold in the West German market. The Chamber of
Commerce invites and entertains foreign businessmen to Hungary and attempts to
develop general trade contacts abroad through a series of programs. KOPINT is
a market research institute which undertakes market studies on a contract
basis for paying clients. The commercial and agricultural attaches located at
Hungarian Embassies throughout the world attempt to carry out irregular
promotional efforts on behalf of Hungarian producers.
3.14     To initiate a breakthrough for Hungarian products, enterprises must
start the process of developing a marketing capability within those individual
enterprises that have achieved sufficient economies of scale in their
operations to justify direct marketing overseas, and to support those efforts
through an enhanced and more focussed infrastructure of public services
offering current market related information and analysis, as well as trade
related activities. 1/
Accomplshments in Trade Activities
3.15      While the country is facing important challenges in export
competition and requires strategic planning and action at the government level
as well as the enterprise level, it has undertaken over the last three years
several measures which indicate an acknowledgement of trade, constraints and
an apparent willingness to take the following actions:
(a) eliminate the trusts which handled resource allocation marketing
and sales of poultry, wine, and fruits and vegetables in the
early 1980s and abolished restrictions affecting exports;
1/ Hungary's lack of market intelligence, its primarily consignment-oriented
trading and the lack in flexibility of response to chenging world market
conditions represent another set of difficult constraints to overcome. They
arose out of: (i) traditional trading approach which seeks, mostly on an
ad-hoc 'Masis to provide the products they have been used to providing through
traditional channels; (ii) use of importing agents, foreign trading companies
ar.d trusts (the last ones being trading and market monopolies) which acted
more as "common agents" or passive sellers with little incentive to actively
search for new market prospects or niches; (iii) relative isolation of
producing agents from export markets; and (iv) pricing, subsidy and taxation
signals set by the state which often do not reflect world market signals and,
jointly with an inadequate accounting system, distorted the "true"
profitability of firms thus providing opportunities for uneconomic investments.



- 13 -
(b) completed market studies of project product groups by
internationally known firms and through the Hungarian Chamber of
Commerce and organized a workshop with Bank assistance on
marketing and technology of project products in June 1987 in
Budapest;
(c) granted subsidies on export-oriented investments and direct
subsidies for selected agroprocessing and wood processing
exports to convertible currency markets together with an
improved automatic duty drawback system in order for Hungarian
goods to compete on world markets, particularly the EEC market;
and
(d) reduced import tariffs and eliminated many quantitative
restrictions on project products coming into Hungary in line
with GATT regulations.
C. Finaniagd Issues
3.16      In line with the economic reform program, Hungarian authorities
launched a program in January 1988 of changes in the way enterprises calculate
their prices to wholesalers and retailers and the way Government grants
subsidies. In general, prices to producers and consumers were liberalized and
a new set of taxes - value added, personal income and linear profit tax
replaced several other taxes. Current subsidies being transferred to the
agricultural and agroprocessing sectors are scheduled to be significantly
reduced over the medium-term. Despite these important changes in the current
system, the degree of change in prices and subsidies will depend directly on
the new tax system at the enterprise level. The details of those policy
changes can be found in Annex 3.
Impact of Reforms on Project Subsectors
3.17      Although the overall impact of the various price, tax and subsidy
changes is expected to be revenue neutral for much of agriculture, the impact
on project subsectors such as wine, soft drinks, and to a lesser extent,
poultry is expected by the government to be positive. For six enterprises
examined in the wine subsector, total sales revenue is expected to rise by 52
over 1986 baseline measures after 10-152 domestic price increases are offset
somewhat by reductions in consumer demand. The recent (November 1987)
devaluation against the dollar (42) and rising sales revenue should permit a
immediate reduction in subsidies. The most significant benefit for wine
enterprises stemming from the reform program is the reduction in the corporate
tax rate from 47% to 40%.  This change, along with the other measures
affecting pricing, would result Ln an estimated 53% increase in net after tax
profits of the subsector.
3.18      In the fruit juice subsector, aggregate sales revenue for 5
enterprises studied is expected to increase by about 52 as a result of the
reforms, but domestic demand is expected to contract sharply with the
application of the VAT tax on these products. The reduction in corporate
taxation from 561 to 502 is, again, expected to be the most significant factor
affecting profitability for these products. Application of this lower rate
along with the assumptions on sales revenue are expected to result in a net
increase in after-tax profits by about US$ 0.8 million.



- 14 -
3.19      The benefits for the poultry subsector would increase net, after-tax
profits by 40X. This is primarily the result ot increasing sales revenue due
to price liberalization and the devaluation against convert'tble currencies.
These results will depend on the ability of the industry to avoid an overall
increase in production cost due to the planned increase in the price of corn
and the expected increase in wages. Total subsidies to the industry can be
reduced by about 2.52 as a result, in part, of the devaluation.
3.20      The reforms are expected to have a neutral impact on the processed
fruits and vegetables subsector, which would increase after-tax subsector
profit by about 42. Total sales revenue will increase slightly due to the
combined effects of higher domestic revenues and devaluation against
convertible currencies and revaluation against the rouble. Higher prices that
will be demanded by small producers of fruits and vegetables whose marketed
sales make them liable to taxes and will likely be passed on to processors who
will face higher costs of production. If they are not compensated, small
producers can be expected to reduce output or resort to other non-taxable
forms of exchange.
Financi  Performnance of Agrorocessng Enterprises
3.21      Improvement in the management of corporate assets and in the capital
structure of enterprises is essential to increase efficiency and profitability
in agroprocessing in Hungary; progress in this area is expected to yield
substantial financial and economic benefits. At present, financial management
of corporate assets is hampered by frequent underutilization of production
capacity, excessive build up of inventories of raw materials and finished
products, and excessive delays in collecting accounts receivables and in
paying suppliers. Further, inadequate use of financial leverage for
investment financing limits the availability of financial resources to
agroprocessing enterprises and results in an excessive recourse to government
financing in the fcrm of subsidies.
3.22      A comparative analysis recently carried out with the assistance of
NBH and MEM on financial performance of enterprises operating in the same
subsectors in Hungary and in the U.S. clearly indicates these deficiencies in
Hungarian agroindustries. The exercise is based on the comparison of 14 key
business ratios as derived from subsectoral aggregate financial statements
provided by the Hungarian authorities and on a set of Dun and Bradstreet
median financial indicators, which represent standard industry norms.
3.23      The fourteen business ratios are categorized into three major groups
as follows:
(a) Solvency or Liquidity Ratios which provide a significant measure
for evaluating a company's ability to meet short-term and
long-term obligations;
(b) Efficiency Ratios which indicate how effectively a company uses
and controls its assets; and
(c) Profitability ratios showing how successfully a business is
earning a return on its assets and to its owners.



- 15 -
3.24     As indicated by Table 2, the comparative analysis of the six most
significant ratios provide a valuable insight into the Hungarian
agroprocessing and wood processing subsector. Detailed financial ratios, can
be seen in Annex 4.
Table 2: HUNGARIAN AGROINDUSTRY BUSINESS RATIOS
Solvency Ratias              Efficiency Ratios  Profitability Ratio
Current Total Liabilities/ Collection  Sales/Inventory Assets/    Return on
Ratio    Networth X    Period (Days) Turnover    Sales X  Assets S
X           (Days)               X
POUJLTRY
Norm      1.8     129.9         18.6       21.6      21.9         7.7
Hungarian   1.8    95.1        45.2         6.2      63.7         3.7
FRUITS AND VECETARLES
Norm      1.6     147.4        23.3         4.9      50.3         5.1
Hungarian   1.8    97.6         58.9        2.2     107.6         3.8
Norm      1.8      93.9        51.4         1.6     133.3         1.0
Hungarian   1.8    88.8        51.1        2.0      113.7         2.3
WOOD PROCE5SINC
Norm      0.8      67.1        92.3         7.2     161.0         0.3
Hungarian   3.3    20.7        40.3         4.2     106.1         5.7
Source: Dun and Bradstreet, IndustrX Norms and Key Business Ratios. 1986 and Mission Estimates.
3.25     The solvency ratio analysis indicates that the financial performance
of Hungarian agroindustrial enterprises compares well with the subsector
norms; but a large number of Hungarian firms in poultry, fruits and
vegetables, and wood processing are underleveraged with regard to their
long-term borrowings position as indicated by the comparison of the total
liabilities to net worth ratios. These show that on average in the po-altry
and processed fruits and vegetables subsectors, Hungarian enterprises use
about 40t less long-term borrowings than similar American enterprises and in
the wood processing sector about 302 less. It is important that financing of
investment of Hungarian agroprocessing enterprises should be done increasingly
through long-term borrowings instead of subsidies or equity capital. This
would decrease the burden on Government funds and probably result in more
funds made available to enterprises for restructuring their assets. It would
also improve capacity utilization and financial responsibility of
agroprocessing enterprises.
3.26     The comparison also shows that poultry and wood processing
enterprises make use of short-term borrowings less than their peer enterprises
in the US as excessive financing of inventories often occurs through a
Government-financed, quasi-equity facility. This transfer of long-term funds
for current expenditures results in an unnecessary financial burden for the
Government and excessive build-up of working capital. The latter is normally
financed through short-term borrowings, which also oblige enterprises to be
more financially responsible for their operations.
3.27     The efficiency ratios show significant deviations of financial
performance of Hungarian enterprises from the industry's norms. First, slow



- 16 -
collection of receivables which is a problem especially in the poultry and
canning subsectors where the collection period is about 2.5 times longer than
the norm. This excessive delay results in significant financial cost on
account of lost interest to the companies and in liquidity shortages. The
excessive delays in collecting accounts receivables by enterprises and delays
in timely paying of accounts payables is, in fact, due to the current system
of cross-subsidizatien among enterprises. Primary producers are not timely
paid by agroprocessors who in turn are not paid in time by wholesalers and
retailers. This practice makes it difficult if not impossible, to charge
financial costs to those enterprises that actually incur them. Efforts should
be made throughout the industry to reduce the payments collection periods.
This would permit better identification of corporate profitability and result
in decreased Government subsidies.
3.28      Second, the sales to inventory ratio, which is a useful inventory
control measurement tool to prevent excessive build up or ' sufficient
inventory stocks, indicates an extremely low inventory tu. "er in the entire
agroprocessing sector in Hungary with the exception of the wine processing.
The situation is particularly anomalous in the poultry subsector where the
inventory turnover is about 4 times below the norm. It is also problematic in
fruits and vegetables, and wood processing with a turnover about half of the
norm. Extremely high inventories are usually the result of conservative or
inadequate sales management. A more aggressive sales and marketing policy and
a more conservative policy of inventory accumulations is required in order to
reduce financial costs to the sector.
3.29      Third, the analysis of total assets-to-sales ratio indicates that
processed fruits and vegetables and poultry enterprises are undertrading or
not generating sufficient sales to warrant the assets invested. A more
aggressive sales policy and reorientation of investment is needed in order to
achieve a more efficient utilization of capacity. The sales-to-net working
capital ratio indicates that a company is overtrading or conversely carrying
more liquid assets than needed for its volume. In the case of Hungarian
agroprocessing enterprises, this ratio indicates excessive use of working
capital per unit of sales and that, therefore, a drastic reduction in the net
working capital position is required, especially in the case of the processed
fruits and vegetables and poultry subsectors. The accounts payable-to-sales
ratio indicates a problem only in the case of the Poultry subsector showing
that firms throughout the subsector may be using suppliers to help finance
operations.
3.30      Finally, profitability ratios indicate that the return on assets and
on net worth of the processed fruits and vegetables and poultry subsectors are
much below average performance. This is attributed to excessive
capitalization, and hence, the value of fixed assets is out of proport£on to
the processing activities undertaken. In general, Agroprocessing enterprises
in Hungery have a tendency to employ substantially more asset and inventory
value per unit of production and to use less borrowed capital than do similar
firms operating efficiently in a market-oriented economy.
3.31      Under the revised income regulation system, most enterprises will
have to increase their self financing capacity by a more efficient management
of their assets, especially current assets. This could be done through the



- 17 -
use of computerized corporate medium- and long-term planning to foresee
financial, technical, managerial and marketing improvements needed to improve
overall profitability. Commercial banks making subloans, for investment and
working capital, to agroindustrial enterprises need to see that medium- and
long-term restructuring planning is prepared at the company level as a
condition of subloan eligibility. Banks would have the obligation to ensure
that, in all cases, corporate plans of agroprocessing enterprises indicate
measures to improve their management of current assets. To achieve an
improved financial position, sub-borrowers would also need to improve their
capital structure by bringing about a more balanced total liabilities to net
worth position.
3.32      As a general rule, commercial banks would have to be assured prior
to subloan approval that improvement in the following ratios over the
medium-term be achieved up to the norm levels as a measure of acceptable
financial performance; current ratio, current liabilities to networth,
collection period, sales to inventory, assets to sales, and return on assets.
In addition, a computerized c)rporate plan would be submitted when applying
for a subloan, the plan would be periodically reviewed for performance by the
commercial banks. In addition, Annex 5 provictes a subsectoral example of
projections of financial statements of agroprocessing and wood processing
categories. Commercial banks would have to see that a similar methodology is
applied in the preparation of corporate medium-term planning of
sub-borrowers.
D. Istitutional Issues
3.33      Apart from the upgrading of vital supports of export trade promotion
and marketing which government and specialized agencies would render to
enterprises exporting to the convertible currency, enterprises are also in
critical need of the following institutional assistance: (a) grading and
quality control of raw material and final products; (b) training in management
and marketing of agrprocessed products; and (c) research and development of
new products, food technology and use of food processing machinery.
Grading and .ualitY Control
3.34      A major factor relevant for increasing earnings on western markets
is not the volume of raw material but its quality which requires the setting
and enforcement of industry standards at the raw material and final product
level. The introduction of an enforceable grading system based on uniform
standards on which processing firms can justify differential payment to
producers as a function of the quality of raw materials would increase the
supply of higher quality raw material, reduce losses at the processing -nt,
and improve the quality of the processed product. Likewise, agroprocessing
firms have not been sufficiently concerned with the quality of product
presentation, particularly regarding container labeling and packaging. Until
recently, Hungarian agroprocessing firms could sell low quality products
presented poorly on the domestic and the CMEA markets, but with their sights
now set on the sophisticated western markets and the Soviet market demanding
better quality products, firms are beginning to pay greater attention to the
overall presentation of their products in line with the competition.



- 18 -
3.35      The Hungarian food law is currently under review and revision by
Government; it is vague in its application and confusing to administer since
several government agencies -- Ministries of Agriculture, Trade and Health as
well as the Bureau of Standards and the University of Horticultural and Food
Industries -- are assigned tasks without sufficient clarity regarding
authority or enforcement of the law at the industry and enterprise levels.
Moreover, with prices officially prescribed by Government in the past, the
rewarding of volume production and the regulatory environment under which the
economy generated, there was little incentives f.,r managers to excel in
quality of product. It is still a widespread practice, particularly in the
processed fruits and vegetable industry, to ignore established quality
standards and accept all raw materials that are offered, which result in an
overall low average product quality. Revised grading system and quality
control standards are needed and should be based on existing western European
and U.S. practices both at the raw material and final product levels
(Annex 6).
Research and Development
3.36      The University of Horticulture and Food Industries (UHFI) is charged
with the responsibility of undertaking R&D for the food industry in general
and for specific enterprises on a contract basis. It seeks to achieve the
development of new products for export, improvements in production efficiency,
quality assurance and better utilization of by-products. The University has
proposed a series of programs for the project products, but requires a broader
view of its role in that research findings and quality control practices
actually reach the factory-floor. It needs to initiate a comprehensive
program on quality improvement in product packaging wh4ch would integrate
handling, transport and processing line technologies in the development of
improved product presentation to final buyers. Unfcrtunately, as in the case
of agricultural research, other than the transfer of technology spread by the
technical production units, final users of the research have initially no
input into the setting of priorities and design of the work. Therefore,
priority setting of UHFI should be a result of structured meetings with MEM,
MT and various industry groups (Annex 7). R&D is also required in packaging
standards, technology and design if Hungarian products are to increase their
international competitiveness.
Traing in Management and Marketing
3.37      The University of Horticulture and Food Industries (UHFI) has
proposed a training program for management and marketing specific to the
project that would aim at training personnel from foreign trading
organizations, commercial and agricultural attaches, commercial banks, and
ministries of agriculture, trade and industry. They would organize special
training programs for the different levels of enterprise managers on a case
study method. Marketing candidates would be placed in a foreign branch of a
trading office or supermarket chain store which carries on business in
Hungary. In order to improve its own capacity for training, UHFI would send
its staff abroad for study and research and bring expatriates regularly to
Budapest as guest lecturers. A key to the success of the program will be the
development of the international cooperation with management training
institutes in other countries and the exchange of staff that this will allow
(Annex 8).



- 19 -
Feeder Industries
3.38     The lack of quality and timely availability of jars, bottles, lids,
cans, boxes, labels, printing and other goods and services needed by the food
industry is one of the fundamental constraints to growth of food exports and
profitability of enterprises. The food industry should set its own standards
for the packaging the) procure from the feeder industries, and set up a
program, with their suppliers on a one-to-one basis for quality improvement.
Government would be expected to assist these feeder industries which have
particular problems in meeting the quality, variety and timeliness
requirements of agroprocessing enterprise as they target specific customers in
convertible currency markets. One of the major constraints for expanding
exports of processed fruit and vegetables and wine is the lack of appropriate
glass containers delivered in a timely manner by the current monopoly
enterprise which controls the four glass contair%.L plants in the country.
Another constraint is the lack of specialized  ma, :aufacturing companies
which use modern technology to produce modern style tans for exports (Annex 9>
E. Impact of Bank Lendin in Agriculture
3.39     The Grain Storage and Farm Mechanization Project (1983, Ln. 2316) was
the first Bank operation in Hungary and has been followed in the agricultural
sector by two other projects, the Integrated Livestock Industry Project (1985,
Ln. 2510) and the Crop Production Improvement Project (1986, Ln. 2738). The
Grain Storage Project was successfully closed on December 31, 1986 and
contributed to the replacement of obsolete, deteriorated grain storage
facilities and on-farm equipment such as combine harvesters, tractors, etc.
with modern equipment, embodying new technology. It also introduced the
Hungarians to cost effective storage facilities in terms of both construction
and operating costs and helped trained operators of storage facilities in
efficient storage and handling practices. Under the first Bank project, the
project preparation system used by Bank staff was initially transferred to
Hungarian counterparts in the agricultural sector and the door was slightly
opened for exchange of views on agricultural policies, particularly in the
area of prices, taxes and subsidies. Under the initiative and guidance of
Bank staff, the Hungarians began a series of economic, technical and financial
studies which formed the basis of an increasingly relevant dialogue regarding
current government strategies in agriculture. The Livestock project is
assisting the Hungarians to modernize the production and marketing system for
beef, sheep, pork, milk and products and lamb/mutton, and includes
improvements in institutions and practices in input supply, on-farm
development, slaughterhouse rehabilitation and export marketing. Within an
overall Government program to gradually liberalize the economy, discussions
between the bank and authorities under the project resulted in a complete
review of their price policy and led to increases in milk prices to consumera
and the eventual breakup of the Meat Trust in January 1987; both actions
proved to be important and were subsequently followed by further price
liberalization (para 6.05) and export trade liberalization (para 3.15). The
project was innovative as it focussed on improvements in export marketing with
particular reference to changing the traditional ways of thinking about how
livestock products are sold on foreign markets. In response to this project,
MEM reorgan! -A itself to place production and marketing activities under one
deputy minister whereas these two functions had been managed earlier under
different deputy ministers. More recently, the Crop Production project is
funding high-efficiency farm machinery and construction equipment for land
improvement. In line with the need for high levels of fertilizer, liquid



- 20 -
fertilizer plants are expected to be constructed or rehabilitated. However,
demand appears slow for these funds and a reduced construction plan is
envisaged compared to appraisal estimates. The project has also introduced a
computerized management information system at the Papa State farm level as a
pilot exercise and is expanding the traIning of agricultural extension agents
in farm management techniques and practices.  Since the commencement of Bank
involvement in the sector, the Hungarians have made significant reforms in
agricultural policy particularly in prices and tax liberalization. They have
reduced the amount to be sold in the category of fixed prices to farmers from
50% to 10% and the amount to be sold to consumer food goods in the category of
fixed prices from 55Z to 25X. Enterprises management is now largely
responsible to the workers and not to MEM and agroprocessing enterprises have
directly exported about 15% of food products to convertible currency markets
without going through the traditional FTOs.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Concept. Desiga and Objectives
4.01     In parallel with the ongoing restructuring of the industrial sector,
the concept underlying the proposed project is to realign, over time, the
production mix of the agroprocessing sector in line with expected effective
market demand, particularly, on the convertible currency market. The Project
seeks to achieve a breakthrough in motivating agroprocessing managers towards
efficiency, exports and profitability by internalizing the commitment of
managers of enterprises to produce improved product quality and to engage in
direct marketing to the large supermarket chains and other large buyers in
Western Europe and other selected parts of the world. Individual anterprises
are expected: (a) to develop clear product and market strategies, (h) to
reduce costs of production, (c) to improve product quality through better and
more efficient technologies in product processing, and (d) to impose methods
of enterprise management which fulfill modern standards such as those
practiced in comparable model countries like Denmark and Holland. These
developments are expected to be accompanied by greater financial autonomy and
by greater independence from the Ministry of Agriculture in terms of capacity
and freedom to take and to carry out major decisions on investment, product
selection, pricing and medium-term, business planning.
4.02     The Project was originally designed by MEM to include a number of
pre-selected firms in the subsectors of poultry, processed fruits and
vegetables, wine and fruti juices, and wood products. In the judgement of MEM
and NBH, these firms were in need of rehabilitation of their capital stock and
reorganization of their product lines in order to take advantage of presumed
current and potential export opportunities in the convertible currency
markets. It became apparent during project preparation that, due to the
difficulty of market access and the weak overall financial structure of some
of these enterprises, all firms should be required to meet a series of lending
criteria which would include, in addition to the financial analysis of the
project investment, assessment and improvement of the financial structure of
the enterprise, its organization and management, its technology, and its
country specific marketing strategy. In addition, in January 1987 a new
commercial banking system was established, which provides for competition
among the banks and requires them to take responsibility for subloan
decisions. The project was redesigned from financing a possible list of
enterprises selected by MEM to a credit line, open to all agroprocessing



- 21 -
enterprises which qualify under the criteria set by the commercial banks.
This expansion of the project scope challenges the preselected firms to
improve their plans for the future in line with market signals and permits
only the best firms with a viable investment package to support such
development to be included in the Project.
4.03     The Project seeks to enhance international competitiveness of
Hungarian agroprocessed exports and increase the efficiency of production and
effectiveness of marketing of agroprocessed products. The specific objectives
of the Project are to:
(a) increase earnings of processed agricultural and forestry
exports, particularly to the convertible currency market, by
improving the quality and marketing of exports;
(b) improve the efficiency of operations of enterprises in the
agroprocessing sector by reducing their unit costs of operations
and improving their productivity; and
(c) create a more effective business climate in the agroprocessing
subsector in line with macro economic price and tax reforms.
These objectives directly support the macro-economic goals of the Government,
which are to achieve a balance in its foreign payments account by increasing
exports and greater efficiency in the production of agricultural and
agroprocessed goods.
B. Project Description
4.04     The Project would provide funds through the intermediary banks to
about 70 agroprocessing enterprises to modernize their facilities and to
incorporate improved management. marketing and technology into the
operations. Each enterprise requesting subloans would prepare, with the help
of qualified consultants, a medium-term business plan which would include
country-specific product and market strategies, the appropriate equipment
technology, modern management practices and a responsive organizational
structure; an environmental impact assessment would also be included with each
subloan application. Modern, up-to-date equipment for packaging, canning,
bottling, chilling, freezing and cold storage of food and wood products would
be the major areas for plant improvement. Computer software and consultant
services would also be financed for those firms which want to install
inventory control systems, cost accounting, including management information
systems and other operations requiring automation.
4.05     The project selected subsectors are poultry, processed fruits and
vegetables, wine and fruit juices and wood processing. Apart from meat
products which are covered under an ongoing bank-financed project, those
subsectors offer the greatest possibilities for increasing earnings from
exports. Improving competitiveness of poultry production through targeted
financing under the Agroindustry Modernization project is critical given the
importance of these products among agroindustrial exports (approximately, 20%
of total) and the fiscal drain caused by subsidies. There is an identified
need to modernize plant and equipment of processing operations and improve



- aZ -
their capacity to produce higher value products such as cut chicken, turkey,
and other products suitable for export to convertible currency markets. Major
constraints on achieving competitiveness relate to shortcomings at the breeder
and grow-out stage. Feed formulation, poultry management, the quality of
day-old chicks, lack of modern equipment and competition at the hatchery
stage, as well as the genetic qualities of breeding stock are issues that must
be addressed in the context of financing for the subsector. The project would
provide funds ror investment in the poultry breeder industry currently held by
two enterprises and for rehabilitation of grow-out farms. Processed fruits
and vegetables receive large subsidies from Government due to high costs of
production and low prices received from the USSR. Major restructuring of the
existing enterprises as well as the feeder industries supplying glass
containers and cans is urgently needed in order to become more -ompetitive on
Western markets.
4.06     Hungary's production of wine is divided into three broad groups; bulk
wine, bottled wine, and sparkling wine. Only bulk wine can be characterized
as marginally competitive in convertible currency markets at present. Value
added in this branch was slightly positive in 1986 (US$4 million equivalent).
Several constraints facing the wine industry relate to packaging, processing,
storage, quality control and marketing must be addressed if Hungary is to
increase its convertible currency earnings in this branch and increase value
added in production. Unlike the other subsectors, wood products enjoy a
strong demand, particularly the hard wood, which is indigenous to Hungary.
Enterprises are in need of rehabilitated factories along the lines of those
high value added products indicated by market studies carried out during
project preparation (para. 6.22).
4.07     The Project would upgrade support services to enterprises, in terms
of: (a) export trade promotion and marketing; (b) training in management and
marketing; (c) grading and quality control of raw materials and final
products; and (d) research and development. It would also seek to create
restructuring of the glass container industry and can manufacturing so as to
assist agroprocessing enterprise to improve its competitive position on export
markets with more attractive and appropriate jars, bottles and cans.
C. Cost and Financing
4.08     The total financing required for the Project is estimated at US$160
million, of which US$86 million (54X) would be in foreign exchange, as shown
in Table 3:



- 23 -
Table 3: PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
PROjECT COST SUMIARY
(FT '0001                (USS '000\                S Total
------------------------^----------- --------------------------- I Foreign  Base
Local    Forsign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange   Costs
_=c=======z= ===:-=====    =:::=:===:=z   =======: == =::==:::=::= =:::
A. MINE AND JUICE               660,854.9  712.012.3 1.372,867.2 14,045.3 15,132.6 29.177.8  52  22
8. PROCESSED VEGETABLES AND FRUITS    281.091.7  513,761.7  794,853.4  5,974.1 10,919. 1 16,893.2  65  12
C. POULTRY                    1,046,008.5 1,240, 191.3 2,286. 199.9 22,231.0 26. 358. 1 48 589. 1  54  36
0. FORESTRY                     446,366.9  707.515.3 1.153,882.3  9.486.7 15,037.0 24.523.7  61  18
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE         259. 592.4  188, 084.4  457. 676.8  5, 729.7 3,997.4  9, 727. 1  41  7
F. NARKETING                     49,392.0  260.610.0  310,002.0  1,049. 7 5,538.8  6,588.5  84   5
Total BASELINE COSTS            2. 753.306.4 3.622, 175. 1 6.375.4U1.5 58,516.6 76,982.9 135,499.5  57    100
Physical Contirgencies         269.619.7  328,529.0  598, 148.7  5,730.3 6,982.3 12,712.6  55   9
Price Contingencies            453,930.7  111.645. 1 565. 575.8  9.647.5 2,372.8 12,020.3  20   9
Total PROJECT COSTS             3.476,856.9 4.062. 349. 1 7,539. 206.0 73. 894. 4 86. 338.0 160,232.4  54    118
January 19. 1988 21:42
4.09        The base costs were derived from feasibility studies and adjusted by
the appraisal mission to prices of March 1988 at the exchange rate of US$1 =
FT 46. The cost estimates include US$32.8 million in taxes and duties which
accounts for 201 of total cost. Price contingencies have been allocated at 12
in 88-90 and 3.5% in 91-93 for foreign currency cost and 15% in 1988, 9% in
1989, 7% in 1990, 5% in 1991, and 4S in 1992-93 for local costs. The Project
is expected to be completed by June 1994. See Annex 10 for detailed coit
tables.
4.10        A Bank loan of US$70 million is proposed to cover about 44% of total
project cost and about 811 of the estimated foreign exchange component; the
Bank loan would not finance taxes and duties.    Additional financing required
for project implementation would be provided by NBH and commercial banks,
US$53.1 million or 33% of project cost, and by equity contributions of
subborrowers aggregating US$33.9 million or about 21% of project cost, and
Government contribution of US$3.2 million or 21 of project costs. The Bank
loan would be made to NBH for 15 years including a three-year grace period at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The NBH would make available to
the commercial banks, US$64.5 million at the prevailing World Bank rate plus a
mark-up of at least 20% (para. 5.09). The balance of the loan of US$5.5
million is for training in management and marketing, research and development,
and grading and quality control of raw materials and final products which
would be carried out by MEM initially and would be loaned by NBH to Government



- 24 _
or its agencies which would be responsible for servicing this part of the Bank
loan. Assurances were given at negotiations that counterpart funds would be
made available for project works and equipment in a timely manner according to
the sources of financing in Table 4 below.
Table 4: SOURCE OF FINANCING
(US$ miions)
Subloans     Government      Project
Commercial   Contribution  Beneficiaries
Banks                                      IBRD    TOTAL
Equipment                   24.8          -             25.0          58.8    108.6
Civil Works                 28.3          -              7.1           -        35.4
Training & Technical
Assistance                 -            3.2            -             5.5       8.7
Export Marketing             =            -              1.8           5.7       7.5
Subtotal                    53.1          3.2           33.9          70.0    160.2
=     ==e=          ~= ==    ===
Percentage Distribution   33%            2%            212           441      1001
D. Procurement
4.11     The project would involve about 70 different subborrowers, out of
which about 25 would have contracts involving equipment procurement from
abroad for values over US$1.0 million; these items would be procured under
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Virtually all of the investments
will be carried out as modernizations, improvements and expansions of ongoing
operations, and would, therefore, require standardization of equipment in some
cases. Equipment and technical licenses to be procured under the project
would be to modernize plants which mainly process fruits, vegetables, grapes
for wine, poultry and wood. Equipment for processed fruits and vegetables and
wine would include, among other items, aseptic sack filters and closers,
scourers, filling and labelling machines, packing lines for bottles, grape
presses, separators, filters, and must evaporators; for poultry it would
include offal removers and transport systems, scalding vats, poultry carcass
openers, gizzard processing lines, cutting machines, overhead electric weight
graders for packaging, cardboard box freezing units, cooling compressors,
air-blast precooling equipment, computerized data systems, and poultry
reception lines; for wood processing, it would include wood chippers,
debarkers, wood-briquetting presses, slicing machines, veneer clippers,
lacquering lines, special planners, double band saws, packaging machines,
horizontal panel sizing saws and feeder and log processing lines. Procurement
arrangements for the project are summarized in Table 5 showing approximate
amounts, including contingencies, and except for a few cases listed below,
would follow international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the
Bank guidelines.



- 25 -
Table 5: Procuremenkt
Procurement Method
Project Element         ICB     LIB          Other                  Total Cost
(IS)   (Local)
----             (In US$ Million)----------- -
Civil Works               -       -         -       35.0               35.0
(-)               (-)
Equipment                69.0    8.0        7.0     29.0              113.0
(54.0)  (4.0)     (5.0)    (-)               (63.0)
Marketing                 -       -         6.0      1.0                7.0
(~~)   (-)    (6.0)    ()(6.0)
Technical Assistance      -      -          1.0      4.0                5.0
(-)    (-)  ~(1.0)    ()(1.0)
Total                    69.0    8.0       14.0     69.0              160.0
(54.0)  (4.0)    (12.0)    (-)               (70.0)
NOTE:  Amount from Bank loan is in brackets.
4.12     Exceptions to ICB will be made for proprietary equipments and items
which are limited to selected suppliers and are critical for efficient project
execution. In such cases, bid packages amounting to an aggregate total of
US$4 million which are financed by the Bank, may be procured through Limited
International Bidding (LIB). Bid packages for equipment and technical
licenses with an estimated value below US$200,000, may be procured through
International Shopping (IS) based on price quotation from at least three
suppliers from eligible countries. Total amount of loan funds to be used
under IS for equipment purchase, marketing activities, and technical
asssistance would not exceed US$12 million. Foreign consultant services for
technical assistance, studies and staff training would be procured in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Consultants and services may be retained for
export marketing by all agroprocessing enterprises including those which may
not be undertaking rehabilitation of their plants; enterprises seeking project
funds may hire consultants to help prepare a medium-term business plan which
would form part of the documentation for subloan requests from the commercial
banks. Services and goods would be made available to MEM and related agencies
for the Project Unit, training in management and marketing, research and
development, and grading and quality control.
4.13     All bid packages for equipment, supplies and technical licenses
estimated to cost over US$1.0 million equivalent, and bid packages for
consultant services would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation, including prequalifications if necessary. It is estimated that
the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation would cover about 55S of



- 26 -
the total estimated value of contracts. The balance of contracts would be
sent to the Bank with the detailed bid evaluation report prior to submission
to the Bank for disbursement. Civil works, small equipment items locally
available, installation and other services not financed out of the proceeds of
the loan would be processed under prevailing government procedures, which are
considered appropriate for this Project's needs. Civil works would basically
be modifications to existing buildings and foundations and would be spread
over seventy enterprises during a seven year period. These enterprises are
scattered throughout the country with an average expenditure per enterprise of
less than US$250,000 equivalent. Assurances were given at negotiations that
Government would follow the procurement procedures according to Bank
Guideliues.
E. Bank Loan Allocation and Disbursement
4.14     The al'ocation of the proposed Bank loan of US$70 million is shown in
Table 6:
Table 6: ALLOCATION OF BANK LOAN
(US$ MiRlon Equivalent)
2 of Expenditures
Category                                Amount            to be Financed
(1) Goods, consultants' services,         5.5    l0O0  of foreign expenditures
grading and quality control,                     and 100% of local expenditures
research and development, training                (ex-factory cost) for goods and
in management and marketing,                     100% of foreign expenditures for
packaging modernization, informa-                consultants' services and
tion library on product standards,               training
and the project unit
(2) Goods, consultants'                  60.0    100% of foreign expenditures and
services, technical licenses                     1002 of local expenditures (ex-
and export marketing activities                  factory cost) for goods and 100%
for modernization of agro-                       of foreign expenditures for
processing and wood processing                   consultants' services, technical
enterprises                                      licenses, and export marketing
activities
(3) Unallocated                          4.5
TOTAL                                   70.0
For the project components, all disbursements for contracts valued at less
than US$1 million equivalent would be on the basis of statements of
expenditure (SOE) which detail the individual transactions; existing
arrangements for SOEs at the commercial bank level were found to be
satisfactory. The documentation to support these expenditures would be
retained by the commercial banks, audited by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank, and made available for review by the Bank upon request.
Withdrawal applications against contracts over US$1 million equivalent will be
fully documented.



- 27 -
4.15     To facilitate the Borrower's access to the loan, NBH will establish a
special account and deposit into it from time to time amounts determined with
reference to the actual need for financial resources as estimated. The
special fund would maintain a constant floor of bank deposits of the
equivalent of the average four months' expenditures which are estimated to be
about US$5.0 million and would be allowed upon request by NBH to increase
adequately deposits at the time of major ICB bid opening. Records of proceeds
and outlays of the special account would be kept in a special project account
to be held at the NBH and run parallel to the master project account. A
record of all contracts financed ar.d a permanent accounting record of
operations financed would be kept by NBH and be available for review by Bank
missions upon demand. Payments from the special account would only be made
for eligible expenditures indicated in the Loan Agreement. Assurance were
given that an audit report by an independent auditor on the special account
would be prepared and submitted to the Bank no later than five months after
the end of each fiscal year.
4.16     It is anticipated that the Bank loan will be completely disbursed by
June 30, 1994 in accordance with the disbursement schedule given in Annex 11.
The disbursement schedule has been estimated, based on the following
assumptions:
(a) Agricultural projects in Hungary have an excellent record of
project disbursements as the Grain Storage and Mechanization
Project became effective in August 1983 and disbursed by
December 1986 (3 yrs., 4 mos);
(b) the Crop Production Improvement project is currently about 1302
ahead of SAR estimates with $54 million disbursed. Tender
documents are under preparation for another US$22 and it is
likely that the loan would fully disburse one year ahead of
schedule; and
(c) the Integrated Livestock Industry project is currently about 60%
behind SAR estimates, but almost $40 million (502 of loan
amount) of the equipment expected to be procured under the loan
is already committed.
The suggested disbursement period for the project is accelerated relative to
the disbursement profile of agroindustry projects throughout the Bank and ten
agroindustry projects in the EMENA region which both indicate a ten-year
period. In addition to the favorable country experience in Hungary, project
disbursement should be carried out in not more than 6 years because
enterprises which are expected to receive subloans are large firms, Hungarian
Foreign Trading Organizations have valuable procurement experience and will be
assisted by the Project Unit (para 5.02) in reviewing bidding documents.
Hungarian authorities have prepared model bidding documents which are being
reviewed by the Bank and their use is expected to streamline procurement under
the project relative to past experiences. Finally, a special account will be
established to facilitate project processing.
F. Environmental Impact
4.17     Existing regulations for environmental protection, particularly for
effluents from the proposed enterprises under the project, have been reviewed
and were found to be acceptable to the Bank. A Bank mission confirmed that



- 28 -
Government places high priority on the quality of the environment and is
carrying out its laws and regulations in compliance with pollution control
guidelines as set by the National Authority for Environmental Protection for
air pollution and solid waste; those guidelines were found acceptable by the
Bank. Assurances were obtained5 during negotiations that each subproject would
be undertaken in accordance with the country's ;afety, health and
environmental standards. In addition, the proceeds of the Bank loan would
finance modernized laboratory equipment for testing products for chemical
residues such as harmful pesticides; it would also finarce the carrying out of
an improved quality control system for agricultural processed products.
Government imposes an effective graduating charge on enterprises which cause
pollution, and enterprise are finding it more economical to install pollution
control devices rather than pay the charges. Poultry slaughterhouses follow
the practices of burying feathers and selling waste products to pig farms for
wet feeding. Processed fruits and vegetables plants in Hungary as well as the
wineries make extensive use of all by-products and discharge little if any
solid waste into the environment. Wood processing plants adhere to the set
standards for environmental protection, particularly for discharge of recycled
water into the rivers and lakes of the country. The Project would reduce
solid waste from the wood processing plants through the installation of new
technology which would permit the greater utilization of raw material.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. OEaanization of Implementation
5.01     Project organization will basically include the active participation
of MEM, MT, the commercial banks and NBH. A Project Unit will be established
within MEM to deal with all non-lending and all non-trade aspects of the
project. Lending aspects of the project would be implemented by the
commercial banks and NBH and export trade promotion and marketing aspects of
the project would be implemented by MT. In addition, MEM would coordinate the
policy and institutional reforms carried out in the agroprocessing sectors
with macro economic reforms and cooperate in supporting the needed changes in
the feeder industries for agroprocessing enterprises with the Restructuring
Council, an entity created by the Bank-financed industrial restructuring
projects and headed by the Deputy Chairman of The National Planning Office
(NPO).
5.02     The Project Unit would be headed by the Director of Agroprocessing of
MEM and would be assisted by a full-time staff of three to four professionals
hired on a contract basis from existing consulting firms in the country. The
Unit would coordinate project activities with MT and the NBH. It would be
responsible for the following tasks:
(a) Assist enterprises, which are seeking subloans, in the initial
preparation of investment proposals and business plans and the
contracting of specialized consultants, where necessary;
(b) Give advice to the commercial banks on enterprises' business
plans and technical feasibilty of the subprojects;
(c) Supervise and monitor the implementation of the project,
including the preparation of project progress reports for
Government and Bank supervision missions;



- 29 -
(d) Develop an information system on all project activities
including project progress in the areas of onlending and export
trade promotion and marketing, which would be regularly supplied
to the Unit by the MT and commercial banks respectively;
(e) Assist enterprises to prepare and to carry out a review of
bidding documents for international competitive bidding
according to Bank guidelines; and
(f)  Prepare terms of reference, hire consultants and supervise
project work in the areas of training, grading and quality
control and research and development.
5.03     The MT would be responsible for the implementation of the active
marketing component and coordinate the work to be carried out under the
project by the different government agencies, e.g. HUNGEXPO, KOPINT, charged
with export promotion and trade. The commercial banks would be responsible
for approving subloans and assuming the risk of the subloans, based on the
subloan applications which would include: (a) a business plan; (b) an
investment feasibilty study; and (c) a statement of creditworthiness (Annex
12). The banks would hire consultants from time to time as considered
necessary to assist them in undertaking assessments of potential subborrowers'
business plans in those areas where special expertise is required. Finally,
assurances were given at negotiations that to assist each enterprise receiving
subloans to develop its own direct export marketing capability, the enterprise
would create a marketing and sales department within its organizational
structure and staff it with the appropriate personnel.
5.04     Enterprises seeking to request a subloan from the Agroprocessing
Modernization Project are expected to prepare a complete business plan. The
purpose of the business plan is to assist the enterprise to improve its
international competitiveness by increasing its value added, improving its
product quality, adjusting more closely to market requ -ements, reducing costs
of production and introductivity direct export marketing and sales. As a
result of the business plan preparation and its implementation, it is expected
that the enterprises will be better positioned to export to the convertible
currency market. A business plan would include the following elements:
(a) history of the enterprise and its current situation; (b) analysis of the
enterprise's product lines and marketing strategy; (c) evaluation of
technological capabilities; (d) organizational structure, management and
information system; and (e) feasibility study of the planned investment.
Within the context of the business plan, enterprises would make projections of
their financial statements with the view toward bringing certain financial
ratios up to the industry norm levels which will be made available by the
commercial banks; current ratio, liabilities to networth, collection period,
sales to inventory, assets to sales, and return of assets. 1/
1/ Each of the project subsectors, e.g. poultry, wine, would be assigned its
corresponding ratios as they were derived from a Dun and Bradstreet report
and shown in Table 3, para. 3.24. These rates would be targets toward
which the enterprise beneficiaries would strive over the repayment period
of the project and, after that period, would be used in the enterprises'
financial program.



- 30 -
Guidelines for the preparation of an enterprise's business plan was prepared
by MEM and reviewed by the Bank for use by the commercial banks in assisting
potential subborrowers under the Project to prepare a business plan. See
Annex 12 for further details on the proposed content of an enterprise's
business plan and subloan application.
B. Lntermediary Banks
5.05     Onlending of the loan proceeds to the final beneficiaries will be the
responsibility of commercial banks set up in Hungary in 1987 in pursuance of
the reform of the banking system. At present there are nine commercial banks
licensed to carry on all lending activities in local currency in Hungary. Of
these, seven will participate in onlending the proceeds of the proposed loan.
The banks are: (i) the Hungarian Credit Bank, (ii) the Commercial Bank and
Credit Bank, (ili) the Budapest Bank, (iv) UNICBANK, (v) Agrobank, (vi) the
General Bank for Venture Financing, and (vii) Interinvest Bank. The banks
have been found to be suitable intermediaries for onlending bank funds after
an appraisal of their institutional, financial and operational aspects. The
above banks fall into three distinct categories as regards their origin. The
first three were formed out of the former credit sections of the NBH and the
credit wing of the State Development Bank. They are much larger than the
remaining four banks, and account for over 90% of the assets, staff and
lending activity of the commercial banking system. UNICBANK is a joint
venture of NBH, IFC and German commercial banks formed at the beginning of
1987. The remaining three banks were originally formed as innovation finance
institutions by various Government agencies in 1983-85, and convert-d into
Specialized Financial Institutions under NBH's supervision in 1987. As such,
they did not have the authority to operate current accounts, but were
otherwise full-fledged commercial banks. Permissions were granted to them to
operate current accounts at the beginning of 1988, as part of the continuing
reform and liberalization of the banking system. Though the seven banks will
compete and serve clients in all subsectors, a large share of the loan
proceeds is expected to be handled by the Commercial and Credit Bank, which
was formed out of the former agricultural credit section of NBH, and thus has
the greatest familiarity with the subsector.
5.06     In order to strengthen the institutional and financial aspects of the
intermediary banks, agreement will be -ought on the following measures:
(i) the banks will participate in a comprehensive training program to upgrade
their staff capabilities in the area of commercial banking cperations, project
evaluation,'' loan supervision, and customer services; and (ii) they will
have a satisfactory financial structure. The quality of the loan portfolios
of the banks varies markedly. The four small banks have followed very
selective lending policies and have portfolios of good quality, with no
arrears or substandard loans. Their profitability is adequate to cover any
loan losses that may arise in the future. The three large banks have started
operations with a loan portfolio transferred from NBH. Tne entire loan
portfolio was transferred at book value, without corresponding provisions for
doubtful debts. While the accounts were current at the time of transfer,
several of the large accounts are of large enterprises which have had
financial
1/ Special attention will be given to ensure that commercial banks can
adequately evaluate subloan applications. Training in agroprocessing
marketing and management would be available for the banks' staff within
the UHFI training program.



- 31 -
difficulties in the past. The quality of the loan portfolio needs to be
assessed on a loan-by-loan basis to determine the level of provision that
would be required. It has also been confirmed that all commercial banks would
set up prudential reserves equal to the following amounts. (i) 0.31-0.5% of
all current maturities of loans, i.e. those maturing within the next 12
months; plus, (ii) 1.01 of all maturities exceeding one year. In addition,
there would be doubtful loan provisions equal to 15-20X of all outstandings in
loans classified as doubtful by the State Bank Supervision Board of the
Ministry of Finance. These rules are considered satisfactory and would
generate an adequate offset for doubtful loaxz.  The overall performance of
the intermediary banks would be monitored closely by the bank to determine
their continued capacity to act as viable intermediaries for onlending Bank
loan proceeds.
5.07     The intermediary banks have undertaken to set their interest rates on
the basis of the following principles which are contained in the policy
statement of each of the banks and which have been agreed with the Bank:
(i) the rates would include an adequate spread to cover the bank's operating
costs including adequate provisions for doubtful debts; (ii) the rates would
be positive in real terms; and (iii) the rates would not subsidize any
category of borrowers. This arrangement is in line with the measures under
the recent banking reform, which allow the banks to set their own deposit and
lending rates. In this respect, the lending rate structure in Hungary has
been satisfactory in the past. The Bank would periodically review these
interest rates to ensure that they continue to adhere to the above three
principles, providing an adequate margin to ensure profitability of the
banks.
C. Subloan Criteria and Onlending Terms
5.08     As in earlier Bank operations, the Bank loan would be made to NBH for
a period of 15 years, including three years grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate. NBH will bear the foreign exchange risk. In order to
regulate the flow of funds to the beneficiaries, and to set out the respective
obligations of the various entities, Subsidiary Financing Agreements
acceptable to the Bank between NBH and two intermediary commercial banks would
be concluded as a condition of loan effectiveness. For financing of eligible
.subprojects of enterprises, NBH will onlend the loan proceeds to the
intermediary commercial banks through its loan rediscounting facility. The
signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between NBH and the Government, and of
a subsidiary financing agreements between NBH and eligible intermediary banks
would be a condition of Bank loan effectiveness. Further, signature of
subsidiary financing agreements between NBH and other banks would be a
condition of disbursement to them.   Funds would be available for onlending to
all banks which are found to be suitable intermediary institutions after
review by the Bank of their institutional, operational and financial
standings. All funds available for onlending will be provided to the banks on
a first-come, first-served basis, without a prior allocation to the
intermediary banks or to any subsector.



- 32 -
5.09     NBH will' onlend the loan proceeds to intermediary banks at the
prevailing Bank rate plus a mark-up of 20X, comprising NBH's processing costs
and a risk-bearing premium to cover the estimated foreign exchange risk or its
rediscount rate, whichever is higher. At present, NBH would make the funds
available to the banks at its rediscount rate, which is currently 10.5% and
therefore higher than the Bank's current interest rate plus 20% (currently
9.32) . In turn, each intermediary bank will set its interest rates for
subloans to the subborrowers on the basis of principles which are contained in
the policy statement of each of the eligible banks and which have been agreed
with the Bank (para. 5.07). As part of the Bank supervision, the Bank would
periodically review these interest rates which have been and should continue
to be positive in real terms, i.e. greater than the rate of inflation. The
interest rate charged by the intermediary banks on local currency subloans
will be the prevailing commercial rate. Assurances were given regarding the
onlending terms of NBH and intermediary banks on the above conditions.
5.10     Subloans made by the intermediary banks to the final beneficiaries
will have maturities of not more than 10 years, including a maximum three-year
grace period. The intermediary banks will repay the funds onlent by them to
the enterprises back to NBH on a back-to-back basis. NBH will repay the Bank
loan on a fixed amortization schedule. Subloan repayments surplus over the
Bank loan repayments requirement of NBH will again be onlent by NBH to the
commercial banks for financing of modernization projects ano investment needs
in enterprises which are eligible for financing under the Project. Only those
agroprocessing enterprises vhich fulfill the following criteria would be
eligible for subloans: (a) subprojects must provide a projected financial rate
of return of at least 18%, an economic rate of return of at least 14% and
generate a positive foreign exchange cash flow in convertible currency within
five years from the beginning of the investment period; (b) enterprisea should
have a satisfactory financial situation as indicated by a current ratio above
1.3, a debt/equity ratio of 65/35, and a debt service coverage above 1.5;
(c) enterprises would prepare business plans which would indicate, inter alia,
projections of their financial statements; and, (d) a single enterprise will
not be eligible to receive more than US$8 million. Each intermediary bank
will submit the appraisal reports for the first two subloans for prior Bank
review irrespective of subloan size. The commercial bank granting a subloan
under the Project would send an information sheet in an agreed format on each
subloan regardless of its size to the Bank for its review. In each case, the
Bank would approve the subloan or request further information on the subloan
prior to its authorization. Assurances on the above were obtained during
negotiations.
D. Technical Assistance and Traiing
5.11     Despite the direct exporting rights which enterprises in all sector
now enjoy most firms are without experience and knowledge on how to take
advantage of direct trading since they were told for many years what to
produce and the quantities which they were obliged to deliver to the local
market and to the foreign trading company. Enterprise managers need a set of
critical supporting services which assist them in their opserations in terms of
export trade promotion and marketing, training in nanagement and marketing,
research and development, and product grading and quality control.



- 33 -
Export Trade Promotion and Marketing
5.12     In an effort to promote export of agroprocessed products, the MT has
undertaken an initiative to carry out the following actions under the project:
(a) establish an Agromarketing Office (AMO) within the existing
agency, Hungexpo (para 3.13);
(b) coordinate and collect market information already existing in
Hungary and create channels for timely delivery of the
information to enterprises and their FTO;
(c) develop specific TORs for commercial and agricultural attaches
located at Hungarian embassies abroad in order to create
opprotunities for businessmen to come in contact with Hungarian
processed food manufacturers;
(d) improve on the current program to bring foreign buyers to
Hungary in order to make contact with Hungarian agroprocessing
enterprise; and
(e) bring new ideas to the existing marketing program "Gutes aus
Ungarn" in Western Germany and adopt marketing slogans in other
major importing countries of Hungarian food products.
This trade promotion and marketing program will be supervised, monitored and
coordinated by the MT and will be financed from the local resources available
to the MT for this program. The centerpiece of the program is the proposed
Agromarketing Office which marks a new initiative and would carry out its own
overall marketing support activities in creating an improved image abroad for
Hungarian products, as well as respond to individual requests by enterprises.
The Office would render the following services to enterprises at their request
and for a fee: (i) assist enterprises in making marketing decisions by
conducting media-market research, and commodity and market analysis; (ii)
prepare specific or complex marketing plans and plans for PR and advertising,
concerning one or more markets and products; (iii) contribute to the creation
of product - enterprise name recognition; (iv) organize exhibitions, marketing
campaigns, e.g. display of goods, businessmen's meetings, sales promotion,
etc., and undertake the planning and carrying out of advertising campaigns;
(v) arrange the visits of foreign businessmen to Hungary; and (vi) apply a
wide range of methods of marketing communication in countries with potential
new members such as applied under the "Gutes aus Ungar" program, and organize
similar new campaigns. Based on the experiences gained from this program, the
Agromarketing Office will initiate forming associations of enterprises for
export trade promotion and marketing. The Government gave assurances that it
would establish an Agromarketing Office and an export trade promotion and
marketing program to carry out the above-mentioned activities.
5.13     An important issue relates to the incentives to enterprises for
exporting to the CMEA market relative to the convertible currency market. If
enterprise managers do not have adequate incentives to produce quality goods
for the convertible market, there will be little chance of increasing the
country's export earnings from project products. An effective incentive
policy would include measures such as: (a) the continuation of the current
Government po1'cy to devalue the forint against convertible currencies;



- 34 -
(b) reducing the amount of subsidies granted to enterprises supplyirg CMEA
partners on Government-made contracts; and (c) auctioning of export contracts
on the CMEA market to enterprises. This matter is being pursued under the
macroeconomic dialogue with the Bank.
Management and Marketing Training
5.14     The UHFI would be responsible for providing an effective training
course for managers of agroprocessing enterprises with particular expertise in
export marketing and overall management of the financial and product features
of agroprocessing enterprises. UHFI would enter into a contractual agreement
with a foreign training center or consultants, expected by end of 1988, to
upgrade their curricula and, particularly, strengthen the training program in
marketing and provide UHFI with the personnel and materials required to become
an important and relevant training center for agreprocessing managers and
salesmen.
Research and Development
5.15     As Hungarian agroprocessed products move into a higher quality
category than is currently the case, research and development will be
increasingly in demand at the enterprise and subsector level. The University
of Horticulture and Food Industries (UHFI) has designed a program of R&D that
would seek the objectives of market-oriented product development, improvement
of production and marketing efficiency and export potential, quality
improvement and better utilization of by-products. As a result of the
Project, UHFI revised its research plan, including its budget, equipment list,
manpower development plan, information Tirvices plan, standards research,
packaging and related quality improvement research and standard setting, and
storage and transportation research. In addition, assurances were given at
negotiations that a consultative intra-industry panel comprised of
representatives of MEM, MT and industry associations, would be established to
determine work priorities of UHFI regarding R&D in agroprocessing by December
31, 1988.
5.16     As part of the Research and Development work of UHFI, a packaging
center would be established within the Central Research Institute for the Food
Industry, an existing agency which seeks to undertake research in food service
and technology. It would incorporate research on containers, packing
technology, packaging design, transport and storage resistance testing, and at
the same time, serve as an information base for the packaging material
manufacturers regarding research results as well as attend to specific
packaging requirements of individual enterprises.
Grading and Quality Control
5.17     MEM's Quality Control Department would establish an improved and
comprehensive, but simple classification scheme within each project subsector
to enable processors to make payments to farmers for raw materials appropriate
to their market value. UHFI would assist the agroprocessing industry to set
quality standards of final products, which should be enforced and implemented
by the industry itself. MEM is currently reviewing the existing food law and
the institutional arrangements for enforcing the law. In order to assist MEM
in designing an improved food law, MEM would contract consultants to review
the grading and quality control systems in major western European countries



- 35 -
and the U.S. with a view to establishing a modern, market-oriented system in
Hungary to apply to all markets, both foreign and domestic.  MEM would prepare
TORs for the work to be carried out for the study expected to be completed by
June 30, 1989, after which an action plan would be undertaken to set up
improved grading standards for agroprocessed products.
Feeder Industryr
5.18     The current low quality of products and their relatively Yigh cost as
compared to international prices of commercial inputs that "feed" the
agroprocessing enterprises is one of the most critical issues regarding export
capability and enterprise profitability. The availability of glass bottles
and jars and cans are two of the key problems in the agroprocessing industry
which causes high inventories at the plant level and containers not responsive
to the requirements of foreign buyers. Government confirmed that the
operation of the glass container industry which supplies goods to
agroprocessing enterprises and which is now restricted to one enterprise would
be decentralized by 1990. This action is expected to improve the quality and
variety of glass containers as well as the timeliness of delivery relative to
current conditions. A study would be carried out, expected by June 30, 1989,
under the Project by the Ministry of Construction and Urban Development for
the purpose of restructuring and further development of the glass container
manufacturing industry. Funds would be provided under the project for hiring
consultants, if needed to assist Government in the planning of disaggregation
action and the execution of the plan.
'.19     Canned goods marketing has been constrained by inadequate supply of
quality cans, thus limiting sales into the quality market niches. These
processed fruits and vegetable enterprises which have their own can
manufacturing usually see them as being profitable. This is doubtful, but
they probably take this approach because of inadequate accounting for
inventory costs. Nevertheless, these enterprises intend to maintain their can
manufacturing units because of the supply assurance and because of the cash
flow it gives them from sales to other processing plants. Given the low
priority of investment in the canning operations due to capital scarcity,
agroprocessing enterprises are not expected to carry out significant
investment programs in can manufacturing, while specialized firms are expected
to gradually take over can manufacturing. A study would be carried out and,
expected by June 30, 1989, under the Project to develop a plan for
restructuring of can manufacturing for agroprocessing enterprises.
E. Reporting and Auditing
5.20     The Project Unit would prepare semi-annual and annual project
progress reports on all non-lending components of the project, and coordinate
the periodic reports from the NBH on the commercial banks regarding the
lending aspects and from the MT on the export trade promotion and marketing
aspects of the Project. The NBH controller's office would set up a project
account at the start of the project and keep a detailed record of all subloans
extended under the project, whether financed with Bank or NBH funds. The
intermediary commercial banks would submit summary sheets for approved
subloans to NBH, which would make this information available to the Project
Unit, indicating: (a) up-to-date project financial status; (b) the type of
subprojects financed such as poultry or processed fruits and vegetables; and



- 36 -
(c) the respective sources of finance used such as Bank funds, NBH funds,
beneficiary equity contributions and Government subsidies. The summary sheets
of approved projects would serve as a monitoring tool for NBH, the Project
Unit and Bank supervision missions to check project progress and investment of
project funds.
5.21     Assurances were given at negotiations that NBH will furnish to the
Bank, within five months after the end of the fiscal year, a report of the
project account, audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. NBH
will also retain the annual audited financial statements of beneficiary
enterprises and institutes for Bank staff review during supervision missions.
Within four months after the closing date of the Bank loan, NBH will prepare
and furnish to the bank a project completion report dealing with the Project's
implementation, initial operations and the costs and benefits derived and
expected to be derived. The above reporting procedures and contents of the
reports will be finalized at negotiations. All project accounts, the
revolving funds, statements of expenditure, and the financial statements of
the Project entities will be audited at the end of each fiscal year by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Short form annual audit reports
for the preceding fiscal year will be sent to the Bank no later than the end
of May each year. The annual financial statements of the intermediary banks
will also be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank at the end
of each fiscal year.  As the General Banking and Trust Company, which used to
carry out such audits for project entities under previous Bank loans, has
itself been converted into a commercial bank, its audit functions are being
separated into an independent organization, which will audit the accounts of
all banks as well as the beneficiaries under the Project. The General Banking
and Trust Company had been assessed by the Bank as acceptable for such
purpose, and the new arrangement can also be considered adequate.
VI. FINANCIAL RESULTS. PRODUCTION AND MARKETS
A. Financial Results
Prototype Models
6.01     During project preparation, about 44 feasibility studies were
collected from agroprocessing and wood processsing enterprises which expressed
interest in the agroprocessing modernization project. A local engineering
consulting firm, AGROBER, with assistance from the Bank selected eight of the
feasibility studies as representative of the expected demand for equipment and
works under project and further refined these studies along product lines
which demonstrated the best export market opportunities. Based on these
prototype models, the project seeks to achieve a series of incremental
financial benefits in the different agroprocessing subsectors mainly on
account of: (i) incremental and improved quality of production;
(ii) decreased operating costs due to technological innovations;
(iii) increased profitability deriving from a more efficient management of
assets; (iv) reduced levels of inventories; (v) reduced period of collection
of accounts receivables; and (vi) increased utilization of capacity.
6.02     Table 9 contains Financial Rates of Return (FRR) and Net Present
Value (NPV) of a sample of 8 prototype model enterprises which are considered
as potential subborrowers under the project and that can be considered as
representative of enterprises in the subsectors of poultry, processed fruits
and vegetables, wine and fruit juices and wood processed products (para.
7.08). In the cases considered, the financial analysis of net incremental



- 37 -
benefits indicates that the proposed sub-projects are financially viable with
acceptable financial rates of return running between 262 and 512 and averaging
35, and aggregate present value worth about US$56 million equivalent
calculated at a discount rate of 7% which was estimated to represent the
average weighted cost of capital of the subborrowers. The financial cost of
capital to the enterprises is relatively low mainly due to: (i) the high level
of capital subsidies received by anterprises in the past; (ii) the absence of
a requirement to distribute dividends; and, (iii) the rebate on the interest
rate received by the enterprises on loans for investment to produce goods for
export to the convertible currency markets.
6.03     The project as a whole is estimated to account for: (i) substantial
increment sales revenue of US$522 million equivalent at full development;
(ii) profit before taxes and depreciation worth about US$250 million; and,
(iii) incremental convertible currency savings of about US$280 Million
yearly. It is also expected to generate substantial incremental tax revenue
due to increased sales revenue and to introduce a more efficient use of
manpower. In all cases, incremental cash flow is estimated to be satisfactory
and cause beneficiaries' self-financing capacity to increase. This reflects
the policy advocated by the Government for the seventh five year plan with
regard to increasing financial independence of enterprises.
6.04     The projected financial situation of the prototype models is also
satisfactory from the standpoint of creditworthiness. Current ratios of the
agroprocessing beneficiaries in almost all cases are projected to be above the
2:1 standard. The debt service coverage ratio, averaging 1.8, indicates
satisfactory levels of financial resources to meet current and long term
financial obligations. Pretax profits averaging 4-52 of sales revenue,
compare positively with other efficient agroprocessing concerns operating in
the world markets. The enterprises in the model are expected to achieve
financial industry norms at full development (para 3.24).
Prices and Subsidies
6.05     When the Bank first started to work in Hungary about 1982, virtually
all prices of major agricultural products at the farm level were fixed or
heavily controlled. But since then there has been a gradual liberalization of
prices which culminated with the price liberalization decrees 1/ of January
1988 whereby the only fixed price to farmers was milk, which represented about
101 of total sales value in primary agriculture. For those products included
in the project subsectors only wood for use as household fuel will remain
subject to a fixed price. All industrial inputs to agriculture including
agricultural machinery also have free prices, except fertilizer, which remains
subsidized and centrally fixed due to the inefficient domestic fertilizer
industry and volatile international prices. Food prices to consumers which
have been traditionally set by decree at a level usually below the cost of
production in order to compensate for low wage levels have been dramatically
reversed under the price liberalization program of January 1988. Over 752 of
agroprocessed products at the consumer level have been placed in the free
1/  In January 1988, Government also Launched an economy-wide package of
economic reforms whose centerpiece is the value added tax and the personal
income tax. These measures are expected to have a positive impact on
managers of enterprise including agroprocessing enterprises (para.
3.17-3.20), as well as reduce the fiscal burden on the Government.



- 38 -
price category, but some products are still regulated in the sense that
planned price increases must be announced to the Price Board in advance, which
may delay the effective increase up to six months. The major products
targetted in the Project which are affected by this administrative arrangement
are broilers and fruit juices. The scope and nature of the price
liberalization program in agriculture would be confirmed during negotiations.
The use of subsidies is the key instrument used in Hungarian agriculture and
food consumption to stimulate incentives. The costs of the subsidy program
for agriculture, food industry and consumers for 1987 was about US$ 1.6
billion equivalent, which was about 34Z of agricultural GDP and 81 of total
GDP. 1/ High subsidies granted to poultry and processed fruit and vegetable
processors and wholesalers are causing a serious drain on the budget and
having adverse effects on the economic reform program of the country. The
total estimated amount of subsidies received by agroprocessing enterprises in
the project subsectors for 1987 was about US$370 million, of which it is
estimated that about 651 went for support for CMEA trade and 352 went for
support of non-CMEA exports.
6.06     Government presented a monitorable program of subsidy reduction to
the Bank in agriculture and the food industry.  The program covers the period
of 1988-1990 with 1987 as the base year. In agriculture, the level of 1987
subsidies of Ft. 19.7 billion (US$419 million equivalent) is targeted to
decrease by one-third to about Ft. 14.8 billion (US$315 million equivalent) by
the end of 1990 and would largely include production and investment
subsidies. In the food industry, the level of 1987 subsidies of Ft. 17.7
billion (US$377 million equivalent) is targeted to decrease by one-third to
about Ft. 13.3 billion (US$283 million equivalent) and largely include
consumer, producer and investment subsidies. These subsidies are line items
in the Stte budget which permit them to be monitored on an annual basis. In
addition to these targeted reductions, non-rouble export subsidies are
expected to be reduced in line with the results of the current GATT and EEC
discussions and agricultural trade liberalization on world markets.
Government confirmed that it would reduce the maximum rate of export subsidies
on convertible currency export earnings as valued at the Hungarian border from
34% in 1987 to, at least, 281 in 1990. The willingness of Government to set
quantitative targets for subsidy reductions in agriculture and the food
industry with deadlines is a breakthrough in the Bank's dialogue with them and
indicates a positive response on their part to the issues addressed in the
sector.
6.07     Poultry.  Government recognizes the problems of high costs of
production in the poultry industry relative to its competitors. For example,
the total cost of production of broilers is estimated to be about US$1.50 per
kilo on averige which is over twice the costs in the USA. In order to reduce
its cost of production, particularly at the breeder and grow out farms, and
become more competitive on the international market, Government has recently
undertaken the following policy actions:
(a) producer and consumer prices of all poultry products were
transferred to the "free" price category as of January 1, 1988;
(b) agricultural producer prices of grain (e.g. wheat, corn) and
high-protein feed (e.g. soya meal) were transferred to the
1/ In comparison, an OECD study points out that during the period 1979-81, US
farm, food industry and consumer subsidies comprised 421 of agricultural
GDP, but only 1.3% of total GDP and EEC subsidies comprised 932 of
agricultural GDP but only 2.81 of total GDP.



- 39 -
indicative price category which permits price variations of + 5S
taking into consideration supply and demand conditions of the
domestic and international markets;
(c) domestic production of high protein crops has been significantly
developed through better varieties and more up-to-date production
technology; for example, soybean acreage doubled and yields increased
by about one-third in 1987 compared to the average of the previous
five years; and
(d) in order to ensure adequate supply of protein-feed for the poultry
industry, Government provides for the necessary imports to supplement
domestic supply.
Government confirmed that further actions would be carried out over the period
1988-90 to reduce production costs and to improve the quality ot poultry
products and these would include the following:
(a) improvement in the quality of hatcheries, day-old chicks, broilers
and mixed feed through improved grading and quality control in the
poultry industry and rehabilitation of feedmills;
(b) production of lysine, to begin in 1990, would supply the growing
domestic demand for lysine; and
(c) strengthening competition in the poultry breeder business through the
establishment of two joint ventures, which would provide for the
production of breeding stock and day-old chicks.
6.08     Fruits and Vegetables.  Despite the emphasis given to the area of
marketing strategy and markets for processed fruits and vegetables as well as
all other project product groups during project preparation, further
dissemination of the conclusions of the discussions and studies is required at
the level of government ager.cies, commercial banks and agroprocessing
enterprises, particularly those producing processed fruits and vegetables.
Sufficient information and market intelligence is already known about most of
the fruits and vegetables which have a potential for export from Hungary and
these products should be clearly identified as a result of the work undertaken
by the Hungarians under the Project. Therefore, MEM presented to the Bank a
li3t of those processed fruits and vegetables which are considered to be
competitive and can be used as indicators to enterprises considering subloans
under the project from commercial banks.
B. Production
6.09     Based on fifty feasibility studies collected by MEM of already
existing investment plans, indicative quantities of incremental production and
exports were estimated. As shown in Table 8, gross incremental production and
exports due to the project would be important for wine and fruit juice, 91 and
141 respectively; parquet flooring, 1472 and 1142, and wood products, 612 and
401 respectively. Poultry production would increase by almost 8% with a 162
increase in exports, mostly in improved quality poultry, poultry cuts and
products. Processed vegetables and fruits would not have a significant impact
on the volume of production and exports but would contribute substantially to
foreign exchange earnings due to the diversity of products and improved
quality.



- 40 -
Table 8: ESTIMATED INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION DUE
TO PROJECT INVESTMENT
Increment   Current     Expected
Due to     National   Increase   Current     Incrent
Project   Production 1/  of Incre- National As X of  lAs S of
at Full     (1986)      mental    Exports  National |
National
Produt Line     units Development              Exports      1986 E Prod1uctio  Exnorts
wine          million   42.8        496         28.9     202.0     S        14
liters
Fruits & Veg. '000 tons   45.0     989         40.1      669       5         6
PoultrI2/    '000 tons   34.0       403         29.5     180.0     8        16
Parquet    '000 m     364.0        248        278       244      147      114
Wood Products 000 m____ 124.0     203         77       193       61       o4
l/ Includes estimates of hame production/consL'mption.
Z/ In slaughter weight calculated on bone-in carcass basis.
C. Marketing and Markets
6.10     The market research studies carried out show a basic market strategy,
irrespective of product or market and point to the weak state of marketing in
Hungary. They indicate that high returns can be expected from the
improvements in the "software" aspects of marketing. General marketing
strategy will need to take into account the following factors: (a) quality of
product; (b) product range and the segment of the market toward which specific
products should be designated and developed; (c) choice of distribution
channels, including the sales servicing and market management to meet
channel-specific requirements; (d) broad development policy; and (e)
advertising as an important tool in image development and in specific sales
promotion.  This strategy can only be undertaken if Hungary continues and
deepens its trade liberalization policies, provides manpower training, product
development, grading and quality control and export trade promotion services.
All of these elements combine to create a condition for enterprises to
identify specific products for specific markets for the short- and
medium-term.  Annex 15 shows specific prospects for each of the project
product groups.
6.11     Based on market studies and a workshop on markets and marketing held
in Budapest in June 1987, project products have niches in existing and are
expected to open new markets in convertible currency countries under the
Project. In the EEC, the best market prospects for immediate exports for
processed fruits or vegetables are Germany, Netherlands, UK and France; for
fruit juice, Germany; for poultry, Belgium, Luxembourg, Germany, Italy and
Netherlands; for wine, Belgium, Denmark, Germany and Netherlands; and for
processed woods, Italy, Germany, Greece and Belgium. In other western
European and Scandinavian countries, market prospects are strong for processed
fruits or vegetables in Sweden, Austria and Switzerland; for poultry in
Switzerland and Austria; for wine in Finland and Sweden; and for wood products
in Austria and Sweden.



- 41 -
6.12     In other parts of the world, market opportunities are strong for
processed fruits or vegetables in Canada and Japan; for fruit juice in US,
Canada, and Kuwait; for poultry in Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, U.A.E., and Egypt; for
wine in Canada and US; and, for wood processed products in Turkey. The
challenge for Hungarian enterprises to take advantage of these immediate
market prospects will depend on their capacity to assess the position of
competitors and to find and engage in direct marketing with buyers in these
countries. Hungarian products have an excellent reputation relative to their
socialist competitors and a relatively high quality product, if not in
sophisticated packages and containers, with non-socialist competitors.
Poultr
6.13     Poultry products cannot be considered as a single market, or a market
governed by a single trend. Because of differences among poultry products in
respect of price, quality, prestige, etc., they service distinct and unrelated
markets. While broilers are a commodity item, fresh slaughtered chickens -
whole and parts on ice - are emerging in high income purchasing areas of the
EEC, and this trend is expected to expand in all of the upper income
countries. Thus, the market strategy should aim at increasing poultry export
revenues, and not export volume increases: on the contrary, Hungarian poultry
producers should be reducing the exports of low priced items and concentrating
on the higher priced niches, particularly, the freshly slaughtered birds.
6.14     However, Hungary's established market position in standard quality
frozen chicken in the Middle East must be defended in a market that is
essentially price competitive, and where a brand image does not necessarily
assure sales at a higher price. The industry will have to become more cost
efficient, and improve quality, including packaging presentat4on, in order to
meet the cost cutting strategies of competitors and retain its show of the
bulk broiler market. At the same time market strategy should include some
turkey, duck and geese products, which are considered as specialty products,
should pursue high quality and specialty distribution. Again, the fresh
slaughtered group for these meats can be expected to expand in the high income
markets, as will the smoked and pressed luxury "lunch meats." Positioning of
goose livers should also take on a multiple product strategy. There is a
growing market for fresh goose liver pieces, but this requires a specialized
fast delivery system to very selected gourmet food wholesale distributors.
Wine
6.15     Market research reports point to the decline in wine sales in the
convertible currency countries as a sign of the lack of success of Hungary's
higher-priced wine offerings to the discerning consumer, and the decline in
average price of the bulk wines as a sign that the professional commodity
buyers are heavily discounting for both low quality and oversupply in the
market. Therefore, improved wine quality and more effective methods of
marketing are needed in order to shift the mix in favor of higher priced
bottled brand named products with a strong Hungarian identity. This approach
may increase the revenues of Hungary's exports to the identified markets in
Germany, Belgium, Holland, U.K., and the Scandinavian countries and open new
markets in Canada and US. Total exports could average about US$29 million
annually, of which US$19 million is estimated to be from sales in Germany
alone. Increased levels of sales require an elaborate marketing strategy that
can be justified only if the marketing prospects are at this expected level.
However, if indeed, the success of Hungary's marketing effort is as expected



- 42 -
by the market research report, predominantly in one market - Germany - then
efforts should be made to expand the market base in Europe as far as possible,
with additional promotion efforts outside of Germany, most probably in the
United Kingdom, Belgium, Netherlands, and Sweden as the primary targets.
6.16     Exploitation of the bulk wine market can be achieved with the minimum
of marketing effort, and perhaps an equally minimum effort in product
improvement. However, given that the wine markets are saturated, any sales
except the lowest priced bulk wines, require extensive marketing efforts, and
once a market niche has been established, it is necessary to defend it with
even more extensive marketing efforts. The target wine markets being
saturated, the consumers at the "attractive" price end of the market are
encouraged to widen their wine experience, and this in itself offers the
marketing opportunity for Hungarian wines. In spite of the apparently
middling future prospects in international markets, the wine industry needs to
be modernized in parallel with present market requirements, if it is to
provide any meaningful export prospects. The segmentation of the market
demands a program of quality assurance, regional and vintage management,
development of cellar identification with the consumers, and the rebuilding of
the Hungarian quality wine image, rather than the "peasant" wine image
currently apparent.   The market research report proposes an extensive set of
market development measures which should be adopted in the West German market
as a test case, once the first of the new wine products is available.
Frut Juices
6.17     Demand is rising for fruit juices and the market is differentiating
into the health food "pure" or undiluted fruit juices, and processed fruit
flavored drinks; market research estimates the future percentage distribution
to be 20:80 respectively. The research report has not identified or analysed
the growing market for fruit "soft drinks" that combine some pulpy fruit
juices with a "health" dilutant - apple juice. It is possible that such
lighter but full-flavored drinks could be developed using apricots, peaches
and pear combinations with apple - all fitting well with Hungary's production
potential.
6.18     Market development is influenced by income levels, especially for the
"pure" product, and in general a technological upgrading for the processing
methods is expected. It is notable that only Germany, Switzerland, Sweden,
US, Canada, Japan, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia are identified as having any
significant market potential. In spite of the market research finding such
low potential for sales within the EEC and Western Europe, provided specialty
niches are followed, e.g. the "pure" undiluted juices and the "health" food
niche, with appropriate promotion of Hungarian fruits, apples, apricots and
other stone fruits, an image and a market position could be established in
some of these countries. It is especially important to bear in mind that such
a "health" food niche is being developed within the marketing structure of the
major supermarket chains as well as in the smaller specialty stores, and that
the provision of a "full basket" of processed horticulture products, including
canned, bottled, frozen and juices, could become an attractive procurement
efficiency factor for some of the larger buyers, provided the quality
standards are met.
Processed Fruits and Vemetables
6.19     The market survey and analysis on processed fruits and vegetables
carried out by KOPINT have the following implications:



- 43 -
(a) the immediate market prospects are in "new technologies" e.g.
frozen produce, freeze dried and condiment paprika;
(b) there is no immediate growth prospect for the bulk of Hungary's
output in canned and bottled products;
(c) target countries have been determined by their individual
prospects and are independent of their membership or
non-membership of the EEC, and instead on their domestic demand
and supply position and Hungary's current market position; and
(d) market opportunities are in specialized niches, and not in mass
produced "commodities".
6.20     These prospects disguise specific market opportunities within these
broad categories, such as in the canned and bottled products group for
sugar-free fruit products, and the favorable position of Hungary in the
provision of canned mushrooms, corn, canned tomato and pickles, and red fruits
including various forest and field berries.
6.21     Nevertheless, a large number of medium-term opportunities suggest
that detailed market development efforts will have to be undertaken to ensure
the expansion of the exports. These market opportunities can be exploited
only through the correct marketing strategies, and the maintenance of
consumer-acceptable quality levels, which differ from country to country. For
example, frozen product lines, and specialty frozen product niches such as
raspberries, strawberries, and kitchen-ready products can be exploited. There
is a limited but growing market for freeze dried products in spices and
powders, but relative to other markets, these represent but a small volume
potential. Hungary's traditional position as a supplier of condiment paprika
appears to continue to be strong and to offer immediate market prospects.
Wood - Proeessed Products
6.22     The export record of Hungarian wood products over the last five years
indicates a high degree of variability of suppliers to the five largest
importers. This indicates an unstable market position for Hungarian products,
and the necessity to establish a firmer market position through improved
marketing and to introduce more specialized and finished products tailored to
the consumer and end-product manufacturers demand. For this reason, while the
market research shows that there is export potential for Hungary's wood
products, emphasis has to be placed on developir.- consistent country and
product specific market strategies and programs.  i'ajor customers are Austria,
Italy and Yugoslavia, with minor exports to Switzerland, Germany, Sweden and
Greece.
6.23     With the exception of wood briquettes and edible forest products -
"non- traditional" products - the remainder of the wood industries export
potential is assessed as growing on the basis of existing markets and existing
products. Export potential will depend on the ability of Hungary's industry
to adjust its t. put to conform to consumer demand changes.  Notable in this
regard are the changes in the parquet market demand, for a product not
traditionally provided by Hungary's industry. The market reports point to the
potential within the above listed categories of moving, where appropriate, to
a larger proportion of finished products. There is further potential within
the sawnwood softwoods for expansion of packing case and pallets supply.



- 44 -
6.24     The report recommends exploiting the potential of the higher-value
woods for the upper end of the market segment, especially for furniture
industry supply. Hungary has a potential to enter the finished and
knocked-down furniture market, including the return to solid wood in the
European housing market for windows and doors. There has been a similai
expansion in demand at the lower price end of the market of formica-covered
panelboard furniture usually in knock-down form. Success in these end-product
markets will be determined by design, quality, and consumcr marketing skills.
Price will be a factor only for formica panelboard and the housing products.
For the latter, price would be tempered by quality and wood type
considerations and thus is open to market segmentation. Any potential export
entry would have to invest primarily in design and market research, and
secondly in the establishment of effec ive market channels. As with any other
consumer product, the marketing of the finished Droduct will determine the
success of such an export venture, but as an entry strategy, the Hungarian
producers could enter into agreements with exclusive distribution outlets,
probably based in Germany as the primary target, producing to their design and
specifications.
6.25     The marketing of edible forest products should be considered in
conjunction with the expansion and modernization of the agroprocessing
sector. However, many of these forest products would receive their highest
market returns sold on the fresh produce markets. This requires specialized
grading, sorting and packing facilities and post-harvest storage, including
en-route storage, and the organization of effective road transport to selected
target markets. Marketing arrangements with luxury specialist produce
importers would be important.
VU3. JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS
A. Resuits of Economic Analysis
7.01     The economic tenefits of the project are far-reaching in that they
would derive from a reorientation of the most important agroprocessing
enterprises in the country toward those products in which Hungary has a
potential comparative advantage in international markets. The project would
provide improvements in the marketing and technology of processed food and
wood which would improve the quality of those products and improve their value
added performance. Under the Project, Hungarian enterprises would fight to
retain their existing foreign markets with the products already being produced
and exported while enterprises would develop new products and the skills to
market them so that additional agroprocessed products will be sold on the
export market and, thus, increase the foreign exchange earnings to the
country. A new generation of managers is expected to develop in the wake of
the project as opportunities for personal achievement increase and monetary
rewards become more transparent and commensurate with the efforts and
successes of managers.
i;.02    Eight enterprises were selected for estimation of economic costs and
benefits. Prototype investments which satisfied the project objectives of
restructuring production and management in order to increase efficiency and
exports to convertible currency markets were extracted from these firms'
pre-feasibility studies and analyzed for each subsector; poultry, processed
fruits and vegetables, wine, fruit juices, and processed wood. The
anticipated economic benefits accruing to the enterprises were then quantified
in terms of incremental sales revenue resulting from new or expanded
production profitable lines, improvement of product quality, and focused
enterprise marketing efforts on earning convertible currency.



-45 -
7.03     Economic costs of the prototype investments include incremental
operating costs, investment costs, and in some cases, additional working
capital needed by the enterprise. The average economic life of the projects
was estimated at 12 years for all subsectors except wood products, for which a
period of 9 years was used due to shorter expected uselife of new investment.
Replacement investment was not considered in the cost streams for calculating
the ERR or NPV. The sbadow discount rate or opportunity cost of capital is
estimated at 12 percent, the cut-off rate for acceptable economic rates of
return which will result in optimal utilization of investment capital.
7.04     Financial prices were adjusted to reflect the economic opportunity
costs of project inputs and outputs. No premium was attached to foreign
exchange since the quoted rate of 46 forints/USD was judged to reflect its
real value. No explicit price adjustments were made to reflect the effects of
the project investment on the distribution of income or the relative tradeoff
between savings and consumption.
7.05     Direct transfer payments including taxes, duties, and all types of
subsidies, were deducted from financial prices as the first step toward
determining shadow prices that reflect the economic values of project inputs
and outputs. To correct for the price distortion in traded items, the 1987
border price, (cif for imports, fob for exports) was utilized. These were
then adjusted to account for the transport and marketing costs from the point
of import or export to the project site to form the economic import or export
parity prices. Prices were determined in this way for imported eq~uipment,
some domestic equipment which would be tradable under certain conditions, some
raw materials, energy, and finished goods. In the case of energy, prices
applied for electric power and coal are based on Austria's international
energy trade while the price of petroleumi products and natural gas was based
on current import contracts of Mediterranean countries. Future projections
were based on the latest World Bank Coammodity Price Forecasts. Prices for
project output are based on current fob price adjusted for transport in the
case of existing product lines and estimates of prevailing internaitional
prices made by relevant foreign trading organizations in the case of new
exportables such as fruit and vegetable juices. Price projections took into
account expected trends for product categories in Hungary's major export
markets identified by KOPINT.
7.06     In adjusting for price distortions in non-traded items, the financial
cost of labor was reduced by the amount of social costs, principally social
security payments, since the market wage rate for labor approximates the
opportunity costs of shifting workers from the "without" to the "with" project
situation. In the case of domestic equipment, e.g. small items associated
with civil works such as storage and treatment tanks, and raw materials, e.g.
live birds, fruits and vegetables for processing, which are non-traded because
the cif price>domestic price>fob price or goveranment interventions, economic
prices were obtained after eliminating all taxes and subsidies.
1.07     Economic rates of return and NPV calculations were made for each of
investment prototypes and found to be acceptable based on the criteria that
they exceed the opportuniity cost of capital. The average ERR for all
prototypes and subsectors was 33 percent and NPV yielded US$30 million.
Sensitivity analysis based on these aggregate measures demonstrates that
project costs can increase by 18 percent or benefits decrease by 16 percent
without encountering unacceptably low returns.



- 46 -
7.08     The results for individual indicative models by subsector are
presented in Table 9. The highest average rates of return are found in the
wine and wood processing subsectors. Economic prices of products such as
bottled wines and champagnes are significanLly higher than financial prices
due to the low prices obtained on sales to the CMEA. Although sensitivity
analysis shows a comfortable margin of variation for costs and benefits, high
rates of return are necessary on this type of investment in order to cover the
high risks and additional marketing costs that will be necessary to introduce
these products successfully in non-CMEA markets.
Table 9: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN, NET PRESENT VALUES
AND ECONOMIC SWITCHING VALUES OF PROJECT PROTOTYPE MODEIS
Financial Analysis               Economic Analysis
Switching Value
FRR      NPV (7T)             ERR      NPV (12X)         Total
%     US $ Million            %    US $ Million  Costs  Benefits
Poultry
Bekescsaba          39          14.2               19          1.7         3      -3
Szentes             51          19.8               32          6.3        10      -9
Wine
Kiskoros            31           2.2               57          4.4       167     -62
Kecskemet           2o           3.5               37          6.6       52      -34
Fruit Juices
Kunbaja             29           2.1               29          1.5        19     -16
Processed Fruits
& Vegetables
Nagytadi            32           4.2               16          0.4         2      -2
Forestry Products
Erdert              26           7.9               43          7.9       93      -48
Balatonfeldivek    23            6.2               25          1.3       30      -23
Total                    35          60.1              33         30.1        18     -16
7.9      The economic rates of return attainable in two subsectors, poultry
and processed fruits and vegetables are only slightly above the cut-off rate
for an acceptable project for two out of three investment models. However, in
the domestic market, increases in costs of live birds would be added on to the
final product. In the case of exports, overall cost reductions would have to
be achieved to offset declining world market prices.
7.10     Direct employment at full development is expected to be reduced from
present levels due to the fact that: (a) modernization of factories will
replace workers with machines in order to achieve higher quality products;
and, (b) the Project will present the opportunity for managers of project
enterprises to release redundant administrative staff and factory workers. In
some cases, employers would be offered the opportunity for retraining in new



- 47 -
areas of economic activity within the enterprise such as quality control and
marketing and sales. Since labor accounts for only 5X to 8X of total
production costs, the number of released workers is not expected to be a
serious problem resulting from the praject.
B. Major Risks
7.11     The project faces three sets of risks which can be grouped in the
following categories: (a) uneven and ineffective policy and institutional
reforms by Government; (b) lack of supply response by managers and employees
of productive enterprises; and (c) negative market factors external to
Hungary. First, Government is undertaking an ambitious economic reform
program with stabilization which attempts to liberalize the business and
household environment but at the same time attempts to control inflation and
the exchange rate to ensure stability of the economy during a period of
restructuring and growth. The appropriate mix of policy action and
institutional change and the timing of these actions and changes in light of
the objectives of improving the balance of payments and sustaining living
standards at home may prove to be difficult to execute. Even if the
Hungarians do get the package and the timing correct, there is another
difficulty of effective implementation of the prescribed actions, according to
a comprehensive plan for growth. To reduce these risks, Government hLas made a
commitment to redress the macro-economic imbalances, and to monitor the
macro-economic policies and their impact on Governr-ent revenues, exports and
consumption. The Bank, as a partner in Hungarian cevelopment, will review and
comment on the appropriate measures that need to be implemented in order to
redress the economic imbalances and restore a climate conducive to growth.
Also, Bank participation through the execution of the Agroprocessing
Modernization Project and the Industrial Restructuring Projects will assist
Government in the implementation of the overall reform package in light of the
need to spur exports and productivity at the enterprise level.
7.12     As the improved policies and institutional changes are more clearly
conceptualized than at present, managers and their employees will need to
respond to market signals and seek to restructure their enterprises and take
the many actions to increase productivity and to cut costs without sacrificing
quality of workmanship in the final product. Supply response will depend, to
a large extent, on the expectations of managers and workers that monetary
rewards will be directly associated with improved performance and that actual
practice will permit the material improvement of their standard of living.
The third set of risks are external to the country and outside the control of
Government. These include the international terms of trade, the accessibility
to major international markets in the face of rising protectionism, the
changing system of tariffs and non-tariff barriers to entry to markets, and
the instability of product prices over the medium-term. These factors are
formidable and, while they can not be controlled by the Hungarians, certain
measures can be undertaken to modify the effects over relatively short periods
such as improving the quality and servicing of exportable products. Greater
access to the EEC market is expected to improve as a trade agreement is under
active negotiations between the Hungarians and representatives of the EEC.
VIm. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01     The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between NBH and the
Government, and of subsidiary financing agreements between NBH and two



- 48 -
eligible intermediary banks would be a condition of Bank loan effectiveness.
Further, signature of subsidiary financing agreements between NBH and other
banks which may subsequently be eligible for project funds would be a
condition of disbursement to them (para. 5.08).
8.02     Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a)   Each enterprise receiving subloans would create a marketing and
sales unit within its organizational structure and staff it
with the appropriate personnel (para. 5.03);
(b)   The criteria for subloan eligibility would be that: (i) each
subproject would provide a projected financial rate of return
of at least 18X, an economic rate of retuin of at least 14% and
generate a positive foreign exchange cash flow in convertible
currency within five years from the beginning of the investment
period; (ii) enterprises should have a satisfactory financial
situation as indicated by a current ratio above 1.3, a
debt/equity ratio below 65/35, and a debt service coverage
above 1.5; (iii) enterprises would prepare business plans which
would indicate inter alia, projections of their financial
statements; and (iv) a single enterprise will not be eligible
to receive more than US$8 million (para. 5.10);
(c)   MT would establish an agromarketing office and an export trade
promotion and marxeting office program and develop programs to:
(i) collect and disseminate market information; (ii) make
business contacts through commercial and agricultural attaches;
(iii) bring foreign buyers of agroprocessed products to
Hungary; and (iv) design new marketing slogans and advertising
campaigns in major country-clients (para. 5.12);
(d)   A consultative intra-industry panel comprised of
representatives of MEM, MT and industry associations, would be
established to determine work priorities of UHFI regarding R&D
in agroprocessing by December 31, 1988 (para. 5.15);
(e)   Subsidies in agriculture and the food industry would be reduced
by about one-third during the three-year period 1988-90 and the
maximum rate of export subsidies on convertible currency export
earnings would be reduced from 342 to 28% pursuant to the
Government policy confirmed to the Bank (para 6.06); and
(f)   A plan of action for reducing production costs and improving
the quality of poultry products would be carried out over the
period 1988-90 pursuant to the Government policy confirmed to
the Bank (para 6.07).
8.03     Assurances were also obtained from Government and NBH that
counterpart financing would be made available in a timely manner according to
the agreed financing plan (para 4.10) and the Bank's procurement guidelines
(para 4.13) and auditing procedures (para 4.15) would be followed. Each
subproject would be undertaken in accordance with the country's safety,



- 49 -
health and environmental standards which are acceptable to the Bank (para
4.17). The subsidiary financing agreements with the intermediary banks will
contain provisions for the: (i) maintenance of interest rates and policies in
accordance with official lending policy statement acceptable to the Bank
(para. 5.07); and (ii) lending by commercial banks in accordance with agreed
terms and conditions (para. 5.09).
8.04     On the basis cf the above-mentioned agreements and the staff
appraisal, the project is considered suitable for a Bank loan of US$70 million
for 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate. A special account of US$5 million will be established under
the proposed loan (para. 4.15). The loan will be made to the National Bank of
Hungary and guaranteed by the Government.



- 50 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 12
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
EXPORT MARKET PROSPECTS FOR SELECTED PRODUCTS
A. Poultry and Poultry Products
1.       Hungary is the world's fourth largest exporter of poultry, following
the U.S., Brazil, the Netherlands and France. These products accounted for
about 20% of the country's total agroindustrial exports in 1986 thus the
efficiency and profitability of this subsector has critical implications for
both the convertible and non-convertible balance of trade. As shown in
Table 1, broiler chicken, chicken cut in parts, goose and goose liver are the
most important products, together comprising two thirds of the value of
exports.
Table 1
POULTRY EXPORTS BY MAJOR PRODUCTS
(mlns forints)
1984                  1985                    1986
Value  Share          Value  Share          Value    Share
Slaughtered Poultry        7,660   792            7,310   791           8,221      732
of which:
Broiler Chicken          4,020   41%            4,070   41%          3,950      35%
Goose                    1,190   12%            1,210   12%          1,540      14%
Chicken Cut in Parts       820    82            1,010    8%          1,118      10%
Turkey                     640    7%              690    7%             830     7%
Duck                       390    4%              360    4%             430     4%
Day Old Chicks               523    51              473    51             739      7%
Goose Liver                1,023   11%              774   11%             899     8%
Breeding Eggs                467    51              520    5%             439     4%
Eggs (fresh & powdered)      583    6%              228    6%             281     3%
Other                        240    2%              409    2%             971     8%
TiOTAL                     9,756  100%            9,486  100%          11,197    100%
Source:  Hungarian Statistical Trade Yearbooks, 1984, 85 and 86.



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 12
The-e is significant differentiation of product by market. More than 90X of
the value of day old chicks and fresh eggs are destined for CMEA markets,
primarily the Soviet Union. Gooseliver is marketed almost exclusively in
Europe on the other hand and poultry breeding eggs to the Middle East (Iraq)
and North Africa, where several countries have import substitution programs.
Although broiler chicken is exported to both CMEA and non-CMEA markets, higher
value slaughter poultry products such as chicken cut in parts are principally
toward the latter or are denominated in convertible currency even within CMEA
trade.
2.       Slaughtered poultry exports have increased significantly since 1984
- an average 41 p.a. in volume terms and 6% p.a. on a value basis.
Nevertheless, two underlying trends are negatively affecting Hungary's
non-CMEA balance of trade as well as its capacity to barter poultry for
convertible currency-denominated products from other CMEA countries. First,
poultry sales to the CMEA are growing at a much faster rate than sales to
other markets - 8% p.a. vs. 5% p.a. from 1984-86. On a volume basis, there
has actually been a large decline in the non-CMEA share of slaughtered poultry
exports from 47% of the total in 1984 to only 391 in 1986 (Table 2). This is
primarily the result of a collapse of Hungary's markets for these products in
the Middle East, principally Saudi Arabia and a dramatic increase in
slaughtered poultry sales to the Soviet Union in 1986. As recently as 1984,
the Middle East represented Hungary's second largest market for slaughtered
poultry and an important source of convertible currency. By 1986, lower oil
revenues and higher domestic production reduced demand in these markets by
over 501. Notable growth has subsequently taken place in other non-CMEA
markets such as Argentina and the Benelux countries, but has been insufficient
thus far in fully offsetting the rapid deterioration of markets in the Middle
East. It is not clear what factors led to the enormous increase in demand for
slaughtered poultry or day old chicks in the Soviet Union in 1986. The 56%
increase in sales volume to the Soviet Union, was however, accompanied by a
sharp contraction in both non-CMEA sales, notably FRG and Italy and Saudi
Arabia, as well as CMEA countries markets such as Poland and GDR. The growth
in sales revenue from the Soviet Union was only half the growth in volume,
indicating diminishing returns on increasing exports to the market.



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 12
Table 2
SLAUGHTERED POULTRY EXPORTS
Volume                      Value                2 Change
(000 tons)                   (min ft)               1985-86
Country             1984    1985    1986         1984    1985    1986    Volume       Value
Soviet Union         70       64      100     2,545   2,575    3,300         56Z       28%
FRG (W. Germany)    18        22.8    15.2   1,239   1,562    1,271         -331     -192
Switzerland          11.8    11.8    11.5       639      708       782       -31       10l
Argentina             0        0       10.4        0       0       383         0         0
Italy                 7.4    10.5       8.4     405      686       631     -20%       -81
Austria               6.1      5.7      6        353     354       469        51       321
Cuba                  4.4      5.2      5        13,     193       151       -41     -221
Other CMEA 11        15        9.2      5.5     474      312       212      -40%     -32%
Middle East 2/       23.8    15.1       4.8      965     606       180      -68%     -701
Belg., Neth.,
Luxem.               3.5      4.1      5.5     211      465       565       341      22%
France                1.9      1.9      1.6     160      145       173     -161        191
Other                 5        5.7      6.1      157     192       204        71        61
TOTAL               167      156      180     7,282   7,596    8,221         151        8%
Of which:
CIlEA               89.3    78.4   110.5   3,156   3,080    3,663           41%       191
Share              531      50%     611        431      411       45%        --       --
Non-CMEA            77.7    77.6    69.5   4,126   4,516    4,558         -102         1X
Share              472      501      391       571      591       55%        --       --
1/  Incl. Romania, GDR, Czechoslovakia, Poland
2/  Incl. Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Kuwait, Lebanon
Source: Hungarian Statistical Trade Yearbooks, 1984, 85 and 86.
3.       The second important trend underlying the data is a sharp reduction
in the "real" value of Uunparian noultrv exports within the CMEA thus
explaining the diminishing returns. In 1985, over half of slaughtered poultry
exports to the Soviet Union and other CMEA countries were denominated in
convertible currency rather than transferable roubles. This in turn gave
Hungary a relatively favorable real price measured in terms of other "hard"
goods or convertible currency-denominated products it wished to import from
the CMEA. In 1986, the dollar-denominated proportion of Hungary's poultry
exports to the CMEA dropped precipitously to 241. (Table 3)
Table 3
SLAUGHTERED POULTRY EXPORTS TO THE CMEA
(000 tons)
1984            1985            1986
Rouble-denominated volume          46 (511)         36 (461)        84 (761)
Convertible-denominated volume   43 (491)           42 (541)        26 (241)
TOTAL                     89              78             110
Source:  Hungarian Statistical Trade Yearbooks, 1984, 85 and 86.



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 12
Since these proportions are bilaterally negotiated each year, it is not known
what factors affecting supply or demand caused the less favorable intra-CMEA
terms of trade for Hungarian poultry products. It is clear that for a
relatively homogeneous product such as broiler chicken which can be
denominated in either convertible currency or transferable roubles, the
average forint price that Hungary earns from rouble-denominated sales is at
least 30% lower than when denominated in convertible currency (Table 4).
Table 4
SALES REVENUE/TON FOR BROILER CHICKEN EXPORTS
(000 Forints)
1984                 1985              1986
When Dollar-denominated                  40                   44                40
When Rouble-denominated                  26                   26                27
Source: MEM
B. Wine
4.       Hungary's exports of wine and champagne grew very rapidly during the
first half of the 1980's - an average 77 p.a. increase in volume and 122 p.a.
in sales revenues. In 1986, two factors halted this favorable trend and led
to substantial real shrinkage in the subsector. First, poor weather in 1985
led to a 50S decline in the harvest of grapes available for wine-making, thus
reducing the country's exportable surplus. Second, a sobriety campaign
initiated in the Soviet Union, Hungary's largest market for wine exports, led
to a lower volume (-37X) of exports to that market. The simultaneous
occurrence of these two factors affecting supply and demand led to the
subsector's very poor performance in 1986 (Table 5).



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Page i of 12
TabMe 5
WINE EXPORTS BY DESTINATION
Volume                      Value            Percentage Change
(000 hl)                    (mln ft)                1985-86
Country             1984    1985    1986       1984    1985    1986       Volume      Value
Soviet Union      1,825   1,742   1,093    5,872   5,606   4,063            -372      -28X
Other CMEA          876      906     662    2,137   2,357   1,922           -272       -18S
FRG (W. Germany)   288       279     136       520      595      347        -512      -42%
Yugoslavia           64      129       71      101      141      130        -452        -81
United Kingdom       29       34       28       53       86       98        -181        141
Finland              20       21       25       40       38       53         19%        392
Sweden               12       16       16       30       41       37          0%      -101
Switzerland          27       29       19       57       61       52        -34%      -15Z
Other                67       64      49       174      180      170        -232        -61
=      ===  __==          ==       --       ==  .__
TOTAL             3,208   3,220   2,099    8,984   9,105   6,872            -351      -251
Of which:
CHUA Share         841      821     831       891      87%      871
Source:  Hungarian Statistical Trade Yearbooks, 1984, 85 and 86.
There are early indications that a partial recovery is already underway. The
grape harvest improved somewhat in 1986 though it was still almost 25% below
the 1982-84 average. Import demand in the Soviet Union is also reportedly on
the rise again though sales of wine and alcoholic beverages in this market are
expected to remain substantially below those achieved in 1984.
5.       Similar to exports of poultry and other agroindustrial products,
there is significant differentiation of wine product categories by market.
Hungary has been largely unsuccessful to date in marketing its bottled wines
and champagnes in non-CMEA markets thus over 95% of these products are
exported to other CMEA countries. 70% of barrel wine, lower quality wine that
is exported in bulk, is destined for markets outside the CMEA thus generating
convertible currency for the economy (Table 6).
Table 6
WINE EXPORTS BY MAJOR PRODUCTS AND MARKET
(mins forints)
1984                       1985                    1986
CMEA                     CMEA                   CMEA
Value     Share        Value      Share         Value    Share
Barrel Wine       1,506 (17S)    47%    1,668 (181)    422          960 (14%)   29%
Bottle Wine       5,281 (591)    971    4,986 (551)    97%    4,177 (612)   951
CheApagne         2,190 (241)    991    2,453 (271)    991    1,736 (251)   991
8   _9                                        =
TOTAL             8,977 (1001)   891    9,107 (1001)   871    6,873 (100S)  871



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 12
Nevertheless, the importance of barrel wine within the subsector has been
declining in recent years and now accounts for only 141 of sales. Even in
this lower end of the market, Hungary has been losing market share. Importers
of Hungarian wine surveyed in non-CMEA markets complain about the variable
quality of these products. This has been attributed to obsolete treatment
facilities and maintenance of equipment (601 of equipment is fully
depreciated), insufficient storage capacity of which 60% fails to meet western
hygienic standards, poor packaging arising from substandard materials supplied
by domestic feeder industries, and lack of quality control due to scarce lab
testing facilities. Enterprises and the responsible foreign trade
organization, Monimpex, have also failed to provide the financial resources
and expertise necessary to undertake aggressive product promotion and
marketing campaigns in western markets. As a result of these factors and the
surplus production that currently exists in the EEC, Hungary's wine exports to
the non-CMEA markets were declining in the 1980's even prior to the exogenous
shocks suffered by the industry in 1986. The impressive expansion in wine
exports evident in the early 1980's took place only in the CMEA countries.
The value of wine sales to non-CMEA markets in 1985 was actually 41 below
levels achieved in 1980 (Table 7).
Table 7
WINE EXPORTS - SALES VALUE INDEX
1980      1981       1982      1983       1984       1985      1986
CMEA            100       119        131        179       202        201        151
Non-CMEA        100         82        92         83        82         96         75
Total           100       100        122        156       175        177        133
WINE EXPORTS - VOLUME INDEX
CMEA            100        108       115        145       158        154        100
Non-CMEA        100        111       104         87        86         98         60
Total           100        109       112        130       139        139         91
6.       Unlike some poultry products where a portion of Hungary's exports to
the CMEA are denominated in convertible currency, virtually all wine exports
to the CMEA are treated as "soft" goods and thus denominated in transferable
roubles.  It is difficult to compare average prices received on exports in
CMEA and non-CMEA markets given the product differentiation and the variations
in quality that are still present in the two markets.  The only homogenous
product exported to both markets is barrel wine.  Although this product
represents a relatively small share of Hungarian wine exports and an even



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 12
smaller share of CMEA wine imports from Hungary, it is still possible to
obtain some measure of the magnitude of the price distortion by comparing its
average sales value in the two markets as presented in Table 8.
Table 8
AVERAGE SALES REVENUE FOR BARREL WINE EXPORTS (ft/bl)
1980    1981      1982     1983      1984     1985      1986
CMEA               983    1,501    1,175    1,169    1,162    1,184    1,199
non-CMEA         1,855    1,262    1,650    1,733    1,695    1,822    2,277
Since 1982, when the average CMEA price of barrel wine was actually above that
received in other markets, the unfavorable wedge between the two prices has
more than doubled. In 1986, the average price Hungary received in the CMEA
for barrel wine was 1,200 FT/hl while the price received in other markets was
2,277 FT/hl. The loss to the economy or opportunity cost of these exports to
the CMEA from 1980-86 can thus be estimated at approximately FT 2 billico.
(US$40 million). It is for this reason that Hungary can expect substantial
economic benefits from increasing convertible currency exports of wine,
particularly if it is able to market significant amounts of higher value
bottled wines and sparkling wines.
C. Processed Frtits and Vegetables
7.       Export growth in this subsector has been very dynamic in recent years
with value of sales increasing an average 192 p.a. from 1984-86. This was
supported by only a 122 p.a. expansion in the volume of exports. As with wine
exports, the CMEA has traditionally been the most important market for these
products, absorbing 78% of sales volume in 1986. Sales to these countries,
however, contributed only 62S of export revenue again demonstrating the low
prices prevailing in these markets. The CMEA share of the value of processed
fruit exports dropped recently to 45S in 1986, but seems to be rising in the
category of processed vegetables (73S) (Table 9).



- 57 -
ANNEX I
Page 8 of 12
Table 9
PROCESSED FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORTS
BY MAJOR CATEGORY AND MARKET (mlns forints)
1984                       1985                    1986
CMEA                     CMEA                  CMEA
Value      Share        Value      Share         Value    Share
Processed
Fruits 1/        3268 (422)    51S       3817 (40X)    51%       4505 (412)   452
Processed
Vegetables 2/   4462 (58X)    68%        5596 (602)    71%       6435 (592)   732
Total              7730 (100X)   61%       9413 (100X)   632    10940 (1002)  622
1/ include canned and bottled fruits, jams, and semi-processed fruit products
2/ include canned and processed vegeLable and pickles
8.       Most of the increase in Hungary's production of processed fruits and
vegetables for export (80%) since 1984 has been absorbed by the Soviet Union,
its single largest market. Of the non-CMEA co%mtries, the most important is
West Germany, where there has also been very significant growth in exports
(15% p.a.) in recent years. Indeed, the only sizable market where there has
been recent slippage in this subsector is the Netherlands (Table 10). One
consequence of this impressive expansion of exports has been a sharply higher
volume of subsidies to the subsector. Enterprise supports rose from US$142
million equivalent in 1985 to about US$182 million in 1986.
Table 10
PROCESSED FRUTS AND VEGETABLE BY DESTINATION
Average Rate
of Growth
Volume (000 Tons)        Value (mlns forints)                  o.a. 84-86
1984   1985    1986    1984       1985      1986    Volume   Value
Soviet Union      334    427      448    3712       4946      5578     16%       232
Other CMEA         73      62       76    1006       933      1122       2.02     6%
GDR                43      46      49    1037       1192      1379       72      15.3%
United Kingdom    13       14       12     270       340       316     -4%        8.2%
Sweden             11      12      13      250       290       329      8.7%    15%
Netherlands        11       7        7     253       181       204    -20.22   -10.22
USA                10       9       10     321       376       454      0.02    19%
Austria            10      13       12     243       339       363       9.52    22.2%
Switzerland         2       4        6      97       152       171     73.22    332
Other non-CMEA    22       31      36      541       664      1024     21.92    38%
Total             529    625      669    7730       9413      10940    12.52    19.02
CMEA Share        772    78%       78%     61%       62%        612



t                - 58 -
ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 12
9.       Demand for processed vegetables in particular (excluding pickles) has
been increasing very rapidly in the Soviet Union. In 1985 alone, the volume
of these exports increased from 160 tons to 231 tons. Processed fruits and
vegetables, like wine, are usually classified as "soft" within the CMEA system
and thus denominated in roubles. Prices are much below than those found on
western markets, but quality is also generally lower. Quality standards
demanded by CMEA importers have been rising in recent years, however, and it
is expected that this trend will continue in the future. Higher standards
shall also yield higher prices in these markets.
10.      Export indices from Table 11 demonstrate two recent trends affecting
exports in this subsector. First, there has been a considerable increase in
demand for processed vegetables in the CMEA markets, led primarily by the
Soviet Union. Unlike slaughtered poultry and wine products where increasing
sales volume to CMEA markets in recent years have diminishing returns in sales
revenue, these exports show improved returns in these markets, perhaps a
result of higher quality delivered. The second trend is that there appears to
be a reduction in the demand for processed fruits in CMEA market and
increasing penetration of these products in western markets, principally in
Europe. Although many product lines in this subsector cannot be described
internationally competitive at present, there does appear to be scope for
investment in specific product categories, particularly processed fruits and
jams, where market research can identify unexploited demand in convertible
currency markets.
Table 11
PROCESSED FRUITS AND VEGETABLES-EXPORT VALUE INDEX (1984=100)
1985                 t986
Volume    Value      Volume     Value
CMEA-    Vegetables   124           130     140        155
Fruits       108          115      100       120
non-CMEA-
Vegetables   114          115      109       121
Fruits       108          119      130       156
Source: Hungarian Statistical Trade Yearbooks, 1984, 85 and 86.



ANNEX 1
-59-                        Page 10 of 12
D. Soft Drins
11.      Soft drinks, which include vegetable and fruit juices, syrups, and
concentrates, are a relatively new product group which are produced in
generally small quantities by more than 40 enterprises in 7 different
subsectors. The main producers include state farms, cooperatives, canning and
wine enterprises. The major product within the soft drink category is fruit
juice concentrate, primarily apple. Growth of this export to convertible
currency markets as been very rapid, almost 402 p.a. since 1982. The value of
convertible currency sales was Ft 1 bln. in 1986. There is potential for
further increases in production of these concentrates for export in the
non-CMEA markets. Syrup exports in 1986 totaled Ft 361 mln, 99% of which was
denominated in roubles and exported to the CMEA, principally the Soviet
Union. Although there are currently over 100 types of fruit juices, this
product has been exported only in small quantities, Ft 42 mln, in 1986, 701 of
which was rouble denominated. Given the generally high quality of these
juices in Hungary, many of which contain no preservatives or sugar, there is
significant unexploited potential for increasing exports to convertible
currency markets. Critical constraints at present include poor packaging and
inadequate marketing efforts. The government is attempting to surmount the
former by promoting a joint venture with Tetrapack which is scheduled to begin
production in 1989.
E. Forest Products
12.      Hungary was successful in achieving increases in export sales
averaging 11% p.a. in this subsector from 1984-86. Virtually all these
products are exported to non-CMEA markets, thus the subsector has had an
increasingly important role in generating convertible foreign exchange for the
country. The forests in Hungary are of high quality enabling enterprises to
make use of them as high quality raw materials and more recently, as higher
value products such as parquet flooring. The products have sold particularly
well in central Europe, where Hungary enjoys important locational advantages.
Markets in Austria, Italy, and Ytgoslavia together account for 841 of
Hungarian sales.
13.      The principal products in this subsector are presented in Table 12.
The most important is wood pulp which accounted for 60% of sales in 1986 and
over half of incremental export sales revenue since 1984. The primary markets
for these products are Austria and Italy, both of which have expanded rapidly
in recent yeas, and Yugoslavia, where balance of payments difficulties appears
to have caused some recent retrenchment in import demand.



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
Page 11 of 12
Table 12
VALUE OF EXPORTS (mlns forints)
Ave Growth
1984      1985       1986          84-86
Fibre-wood, pulpwood           1505       1656       1797           91
Parquet flooring                345        350        454          15S
Sawn Wood (broad leafs;         363        336        388           32
coniferous)
Logs for Veneer & Processing  172          190        251          212
Plywood                          51         70        115          50%
Veneer                           31         28         42          16%
Total                          2467       2630       3047          11%
Source:  Hungarian Statistical Trade Yearbooks, 1984, 85 and 86.
14.      The second largest contribution to growth in sales from 1984-86 was
in parquet flooring, where increasing demand was evident in Austria (74 %
p.a.) and Sweden (201 p.a.). The most dynamic growth in markets for forest
products has taken place in Austria, Italy and West Germany. The market in
Austria in particular has been lucrative for exporters, sales having doubled
between 1984-86. This exceptional growth has occurred across all product
categories with the exception of plywood, which is sold primarily in Egypt
(45%) and Italy (381) (Table 13).
Table 13
FOREST PRODUCT EXPORTS
INDEX - VALUE OF SALES BY DESTINATION
1984-100
Share of Mkt
1985            1986          in 1986
Austria                      140             200              31%
Italy                         94             135             27%
Yugoslavia                   102              85             26%
FRG                          113             141              4%
Sweden                       101             110              4%
Netherlands                   70             100               2%
Egypt                        162             180               2%
Total                        108             127             96%



- 61 -
ANNEX 1
Page 12 of 12
15.      In order to increase the quality and quantity of forest product
exports to convertible currency markets, it will be necessary to import new
equipment - much of which is fully depreciated and outdated. The average
degree of processing also needs to be increased. Hungary's location in
Central Europe, where most countries are major importers of timber, is an
important advantage. Demand in these countries is expected to continue
increasing, particularly for pulp-wood, wood chips, long fibre timber for the
cellulose industry, sawn broad leaf timber, and panel or sheet-type parquet
flooring. With increased emphasis on quality and marketing, Hungary is well
positioned to increase sales of these products.



-62-
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 7
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
BARRIERS TO ENTRY INTO EEC MARKET
A. Introduction
1.      Processed agricultural products, of export interest to Hungary, are
constrained in the EEC markets by the EEC's trade barriers and restrictions.
In addition to the import tariffs for many of these products the EEC has a
specific import regulation regime, under its Common Agricultural Policy
(CAP). Each group of products has its own set of CAP regulations, which may
include levies in addition to or in lieu of the customs tariff and other
supplementary charges. In the case of some products, there may also be
controls on the prices of imported products, which typically specify a minimum
import prices and quantitative restrictions or quotas with individual
countries. Apart from these specific restrictions, export opportunities to
the Community are also limited by the general status of production and imports
in the EEC, and in some products, the market shares of Hungary are already so
high, or the proportion of extra-EEC imports in total trade is so low, that
large incremental exports are likely to be difficult.
B. Processed Fruits and VeKetables1'
2.      Hungary is a significant exporter of frozen raspberries, Morello
cherries in syrup, apricot pulp, apple and pear juices, raspberry and cherry
jam. In processed fruits and vegetables, tariffs are probably the most
significant barrier to imports. For those products containing added sugar,
there is an additional tariff-like charge in the form of a sugar levy, which
requires price oompetitiveness, particularly relative to suppliers within the
EEC. Tariffs against the "red fruits" i.e. raspberries, strawberries,
cherries, are 11 for pulp, 18% for frozen fruit, and 20-26% for cherries,
apricots, pears and peaches. For fruit preserved in syrup or containing added
sugar, there is a sugar levy in addition to the tariff which is fixed at 22 ad
valorem for products with relatively low added sugar; the rate of the levy
varies with the sugar content of the product, jam, and some strawberry jam.
Among vegetables, the country ilso exports frozen peas, frozen beans,
cucumbers and gherkins in vinegar, dried onions, tomato concentrate and frozen
tomatoes.
1/ The basic CAP regulation is in EEC Council Regulation No. 426/86 of
February 24, 1986.  (EEC Official Journal L 49/1, February 27, 1986.)



-63-
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 7
which can be a significant extra charge for products such as jams or fruit in
heavy syrup. 1/
3.       Certain Mediterranean countries which have preferential trading
arrangements witL the EEC are eligible for concessions on these tariffs, but
for the most part, they are not major exporters of these products. The only
products for which such tariff concessions may affect relative access to the
EEC markets for Hungary is apple juice, where Turkey is also an exporter, but
even this is likely to be negligible as Turkey's apple juice exports are of a
different quality, with a higher sugar content than from Hungary. Tariff
preferences could affect exports in the case of (a) apricots in syrup, where
Morocco, which accounts for over half of total EEC imports, faces a
concessionary tariff of 12.6% instead of the 18% payable by Hungary;
(b) cucumbers and gherkins, where Morocco has a concession and is a major
supplier; and, (c) tomato products, where tariff concessions to Turkey are
coupled with quantitative restraints which limit its exports of tomato
concentrate. Tariff concessions to rival sup21iers are, therefore, not an
impediment for most products of export interest to Hungary, as the major
competitors in their products are other East European countries, which face
the same tariffs as Hungary.
4.       There are no quantitative controls on Hungarian products of export
interest in this category. Imports of the red fruit products, including jams,
other fruit (cherries, pears, peaches and apricots), peas, beans, mushrooms
and tomato products, are however subject to licenses, issued by each EEC
country to its importers, which requires the lodging of a deposit, which is
forfeited if imports do not take place in a timely manner.
5.       In addition to the CAP regulations, imports of the "red fruit"
products into the EEC from Hungary are subject to provisions contained in
exchanges of letters between the EEC and Hungary, which set a minimum import
price for these products. These prices are renegotiated annually and vary
with the quality of the imported product. The EEC apparently has a similar
arrangement for these products, and for cherries, with Yugoslavia, but does
not include quantitative limits. While such an arrangement does not limit
export quantities directly, it makes the increase of market share through
price competitiveness more difficult.
6.       Apart from trade restrictions, it is worth mentioning that the EEC
also has a domestic production aid system for producers of soft fruits in
syrup (cherries, peaches and pears) and for tomato products, and export
refunds for
1/ For example, in the case of strawberry jam, the sugar levy in 1986 was
0.5 ECU/kg. Given a basic price for jam of £150 per 100 kg, or
202 ECU/100 kg, this implies a sugar levy of 25% ad valorem--in addition
to a basic tariff of 30% ad valorem.



-64-
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 7
most prepared or preserved fruit and vegetable products. This implies that
competition with EEC producers, within the EEC market, or in third markets, is
more difficult.
C. Poultry Products 1/
7.       Hungary ranks fourth among the world exporters of poultry meat (after
the EEC, Brazil and the US) and its share in the exports of these leading four
countries is about 16% (156,000 m. tons). About 60X of Hungary's exports at
present go to the USSR and around 222 go to the EEC. In terms of the EEC's
imports by volume, almost half (46%) originate in Hungary, which is its single
largest supplier. Poland is the second largest supplier (17% of the market),
followed by Brazil and Yugoslavia. Although chicken meat still accounts for
44Z, turkey meat is 182, and ducks, geese, guinea fowls and other poultry
products made up 382 of total EEC imports. At present, half of Hungary's
total exports to the Community (in m. tonnes) consist of chickens, another
13.51 is turkey meat, 10.3% is duck, and 2.41 is goose. Hungary's market
share in some items is over 802, and its share in the three largest categories
(75X geese, chicken breasts and goose or duck liver) is between 34% and 642.
Unlike pigmeat, the poultry regime under the CAP has no internal market price
support system and no producer income guarantee systemn Ir that sense, market
forces play a significant role in balancing demand and supply, relative to
highly regulated products such as beef and even the somewhat less regulated
pigmeat market.
8.       External protection is provided through a system of levies which are
in lieu of the EEC tariff.  There are two basic components to the levy.  The
first is the "mobile" or "cereal" element, which is derived from the
consumption of cereals required to produce one kg of chicken meat in the
Community and this "chicken" levy is obtained by multiplying the cereal levy
by 1.99X. 2/ The second or "fixed" element of the levy is fixed at 7% of the
"sluicegate" price for chickens. This price is established on the basis of
the cost price of 1 kg of eggs (and, using a conversion factor, chickens) in
the world's technically most efficient countries, at world market prices and
costs.  It is supposed to represent the free-at-frontier border price ac which
1/ The base regulation for the EEC is available in Regulation (EEC) No.
2777/75, as last governed by the conditions for accession of Greece
(November 19, 1979).
2/ The assumptions used are: 1 kg of chicken results from 2.15 kg of feed, of
which 651 consists of cereals, so that 1 kg of live chicken is equivalent
to 2.15 x 0.65 kg cereals. Since a slaughtered chicken yields about 70%
meat, a kg of chicken (deadweight) results from 100/70 kg chicken. Thus a
kg of poultry meat corresponds to (100/70) x (2.15x0.65) kg of cereals, or
1.99 kg of cereals.



-65-
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 7
a non-member country would offer its products to the Community. In addition
to these, to "guard against very cheap imports", supplementary amounts are
levied on products offered below the sluicegate price. The sluicegate prices,
like the basic levies, are revised quarterly.  The Community also offers
export refunds for all poultry products, to its own exporting producers,
equivalent to the difference between production costs in the CoMW.Mity and
elsewhere. Since the levies are set in specific rather than ad valorem terms,
assessing the impact of their structure by measuring the amount of protection
they afford is not easy. Based on sluicegate prices which provide a "minimum"
import price, while market prices define a maximum price, levies amount to
32-43% of the import price.
9.       The EEC's imports of chicken are small as a proportion of consumption
but are likely to remain stable. Hungary's share in these however is already
high and large further increases may be difficult. There are no quantitative
limits on the EEC's imports of these products but a complex structure of
variable levies effectively imposes a high tariff lil charge on imp.;rts.
Attempts at price competition are precluded by the existence of a
supplementary charge which serves to prevent imports from falling below a
minimum level. Hungary's exporters do not, at the present, appear to deal
with this device effectively, and should organize themselves to tackle it.
D. Wine
10.      Hungary's present exports to the Community are concentrated mainly in
table wines packed in bulk containers over 2 liters in size. However, its
share in the market is relatively low, averaging between 9% to 152 of the
extra EEC share. It has a higher percentage of the market in stronger wines,
above 131 vol., but the total EEC imports of these are not as large.
11.      The EEC has a complicated internal price support scheme combined with
intervention purchasing and preventive distillation of accumulated stocks of
table wine. To safeguard Community price levels against cheap imports from
non-member countries, and to ensure a degree of Community preference, the CAP
regime for wine includes an equally complicated set of import protection
measures.
12.      To begin with, imports of wine are subject to tariff charges which
are specified in ECU per hl, i.e. in specific rather than ad valorem terms,
which vary from 10.9 to 23 ECU per hl, excluding sparkling wines. These are
converted back to national currencies at the EEC "green" (i.e. agricultural)
exchange rates. The ad valorem equivalent of tariffs is around 40-50X. For
the purpose of customs levies, Hungarian Tokay is charged at the same rate as
liquer wines, which, strictly speaking, is incorrect and Hungary is attempting
to renegotiate this tariff treatment.
13.      In addition to tariff0, there is a system of reference prices. which
are minimum import prices for non-EEC exporters. The reference price is fixed



-66-
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 7
annually and applies from December 16 in the year in which it is fixed to
December 15 the following year. 1/ These are calculated on the basis of the
Community's guide price 2/ for representative red and white wines, plus the
costs of processing Community wine to the same stage as imported wine. The
reference prices, which are fixed in ECUs, are converted into the various
national currencies at the prevailing "green" exchange rates, except for
higher quality wines, for which special rates are used.
14.      A countervailing charge is applied to products imported at prices
below these reference prices, which is determined as the difference between
the free-at-frontier offer prices (plus customs duty) and the reference
price. In principle, the countervailing charge is applied to all countries,
but in practice, most countries trading with the Community have undertaken to
observe the reference price in question, and have obtained exemption from the
payment of the countervailing charges, and, therefore, there are numerous
exceptions to the "rule". Member states are obliged to provide detailed
monthly lists to the Commission where free-at-frontier reference prices have
not been observed. In such cases, preferential rates of duty may be waived,
and countervailing charges may also be applied. Most major exporters to the
EEC are included, except the USA and the USSR. In the case of the US, the EEC
market is kept open because the US is the largest market for European wine.
15.      To summarize, there may be some EEC market for Hungarian wines, both
in terms of medium quality table wines and its specialty product, Tokay.
However, Hungary is at a disadvantage in terms of access to the Community
markets especially since the accession of Spain and Portugal to the
Community. It should try to negotiate politically more favorable terms of
access to the EEC market, in terms of tariff concessions, and the tariff
classification of Tokay. Fortunately, for Hungary the de facto concession
given to Yugoslavia is not large and, given the image of Hungary in the EEC as
a country with a long and respectable viticultural tradition, and the EEC's
desire to maintain trade on political grounds, some increase in exports may be
possible. However, the long run fall in Community consumption and the
Community's present surpluses should caution against substantial expansion.
1/ The full list of products for which these apply is in Regulation (EEC)
No. 337/79.  The products inc'-4e red and white table wine, liquer wine
and fortified wines.
2/ The guide price is fixed at a production stage on the basis of the average
market price over the last two years.



-67-
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 7
E. Wood Products
Overview
16.      The processed wood products under review- fiberboard, particle board
and parquet flooring--come under the purview of the manufacturing industry
directorate. As such, there is no Common Agricultural Policy regime for
timber or timber products. The EEC is at present trying to formulate a Common
Forestries Policy, but this is unlikely to include processed wood products.
Possibly, uecause these products are not regarded as agricultural, and
probably also because of the Community's large net deficit in wood and its
products, overall access to the EEC market is not complicated. The import
restraints which have been adopted are of the sort that affect manufacture
rather than agricultural products and include import quotas in some member
states, maintained under the Community's "umbrella" of autonomous restraints
against East European state trading nations and, occasionally, anti-dumping
actions.
17.      In aggregate, the EEC has a large deficit in wood and wood products,
and the 1970s were characterized by a growing dependence on external
suppliers. By the early 1980s, total exports were only a tenth of total
imports. However, a marked increase in Community output of timber is expected
in the future (over the next 20-30 years) due to widespread plantings in its
member states especially France, Belgium, the UK and Ireland. The enlargement
of the Community will also contribute to the improved balance, since Portugal
is the only state in the enlarged Community with a positive trade balance in
wood products.
18.      Import restrictions against these products are minimal, relative to
most agricultural and agroprocessed products. Imports are subject to a
tariff, which is fixed at 10% ad valorem for fiberboard and particle board,
and from 4-6% for parquet flooring, depending on its degree of processing.
The EEC has reduced the tariff payable to zero for all countries with
preferential trading arrangements with the EEC, including most EFTA and
Mediterranean countries, the Lome Convention countries, Turkey (under its
pending accession to the EEC) and Yugoslavia. This implies that Hungary is at
a slight disadvantage in terms of price competitiveness, relative to a large
number of other supplier countries. Apart from the tariffs, there are import
quotas for Hungary's wood products in two member states of the EEC-West
Germany and Italy. In the case of Germany, the quotas are for 1 million
square meters of fiberboard and 4,700 cubic meters of particle board, in
1987. Italy's quota is for parquet flooring, and the quantity allowed is
65,000 square meters of parquet flooring panels, for 1987.
19.      Technical specifications do not seem to be a major obstacle.  There
are no Community-wide specifications but rather, norms are set on a national
basis. In the case of particle board, Germany, Denmark and the Netherlands do



-68-
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 7
have restrictions on the emission of formaldehyde gases from the board, but
nEC importers feel that East European countries can meet these requirements,
at an additional cost of around 6%.
20.      To conclude, exports of wood products to the Community appear
possible, and duties are low. Hungary is at present a small exporter and
should be able to increase its market shares, despite the disadvantage it
suffers from in terms of somewhat higher tariffs relative to many other
exporters. The scope for increased exports in the specific products selected,
however, may be more limited than in basic timber products.



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 13
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
SYSTEM OF PRICES. TAXES AND SUBSIDIES
A. Prices
1.       Hungary agricultural prices generally do not reflect supply/demand or
relative scarcity in the economy. The Government has used prices together
with taxes and subsidies as resource allocation tools. The objective of using
these "regulatory instruments" is to simulate "market conditions" and thus
effect efficient resource allocation. In practice, these indirect controls
have grown so complicated and cumbersome that it is difficult to discern the
efficiency effects of their use. Government's proposed initiatives to move
toward a freer and simplified pricing structure are clearly steps in the right
direction.
Primary Producers
2.       Four categories of prices are in effect at the primary producer level
since January 1, 1988; fixed, orientation, guaranteed, and free prices. The
intent of the reform measures is to move more products from fixed prices
toward less restrictive and free price categories.
(a)   Fixed prices for food commodities will apply only - milk,
which rep.-esents about 10 of the total value of sales in
primary agriculture. For those products included in the
project subsectors, only wood for use as household fuel will
remain subject to a fixed price.
(b) Orientation prices, a slightly less restrictive category than
fixed prices, apply only to grains, slaughter cattle, and wool,
representing 162 of primary agricultural sales. For these
products, prices negotiated between buyers and sellers are
allowed to fluctuate 5-10% around a centrally specified price.
(c) Guaranteed prices, apply only to slaughter pigs, representing
241 of the value of primary agricultural sales. This product
enjoys a floor price set to cover average production costs plus
8-10 profit margin.
(d)   Free Pric  will apply to all other primary products in
agriculture, representing approximately 501 of sales. Prior to
January 1988, only 301 of products were in this category.



- 70 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 13
3.       1'Te change this repre8ents in Lerms of production costs for
agroprocessing firms under the project is relatively minor since their most
important raw materials - vegetables, fruits, grapes, poultry, and timber
were already included under the free pricing system. Certain products in the
free price category will continue to benefit from a floor price set to cover
average production costs. The distinction between this and the guaranteed
price for slaughter pigs is that the guaranteed price also includes a fixed
profit margin. The minimum price, defined by Government as a free price, is
used to encourage production and insure a continuous supply of raw materials
for processors by protecting primary producers, particularly small farmers,
from seasonal fluctuations in demand or exogenous factors such as poor weather
or buyer exploitation. Potatoes, some vegetables and fruits, chicken, eggs,
and soy beans have minimum floor prices._  In practice, the negotiated
price on these products is usually much higher than the minimum, but such
measures appear relatively successful in achieving their objectives. Given
the high degree of dependence some Hungarian agroprocessing subsectors such as
meat, poultry, and processed fruits and vegetables receive raw materials from
the small farm sectors, there are surprisingly few problems of continuous
supply of raw materials, a factor which plagues food industry in many other
countries.
4.       All industrial inputs to agriculture including agricultural machinery
also have free prices except fertilizer which remains subsidized and centrally
fixed. All plant protective chemicals moved from fixed to free prices and
protein feeds moved from fixed to orientation prices.
AuOprocesing and Wood ProwessinK
5.       At the level of agroprocessing and wood processing virtually all
prices negotiated between enterprises and wholesalers/retailers will be in the
free price category. (In some cases, processors do their own wholesaling.)
However, even with a greater proportion of freer prices, as long as large
distortions through taxes and subsidies continue, the pricing mechanism cannot
become an effective market regulator. Instead of 4 categories of prices for
agroprocessed products that were in effect before January 1988, there are
currently only two -- fixed or free. Of the products produced by subsectors
targeted under the project, only wood used for household fuel will be subject
to a fixed price in the future. The liberalization this represents for the
project is presented in Table 1.
1/ Vegetables and fruits subject to a minimum price are paprika, red pepper,
carrots, tomatoes, green pepper, winter apples, and sour cherries. As of
January 1, 1988, apricots and peaches are no longer subject to a minimum
protective price.



- 71 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 13
Table 1: Liberaization of Pricing System for Project Produot Grouos
After the Reforms of January 1.1968
Before Reform             After Reform
Processed Fruits and               7T  fixed or orientation      1002 free
Vegetables                        931 minimum or free
Wine                               1002 free                     100l   free
Poultry                            551 fixed or orientation      1001 free
451 minimum or free
Mineral Water/Fruit Juices         981 free                      1001 free
2% fixed
Wood Products
Sawn Wood (exc. oak, pine)      100% free                     1001 free
Sawn Wood (oak, pine)           1001 fixed                    1001 free
Furniture, parquet, doors       1001 free                     1001 free
Matches, Coffins                1001 fixed                    1001 free
Wood for household fuel            1001 fixed                    1001 fixed
Consumer Prices on Food Products
6.       Although most agroprocessed products will be in the free price
category, some categories are still regulated in the sense that planned price
increases must be announced to the Price Board in advance. If no objection is
raised over a period of six weeks, then the price increase goes into effect.
Increases deemed unjustified or undesirable for whatever reason can be
postponed for 5 to 6 months by the State Materials and Price Board.
Government intends to hold the average increase in food prices in 1988 to 12X,
below the 151 expected rate of inflation. Since this intent runs contrary to
the general policy of freer prices, it is presumably through these regulatory
measures as well as subsidiee that the government will increasingly turn to
achieve its food policy objectives. The major products targeted in the
project which are affected by this clause are chicken and fruit juices. Most
other important food items for domestic consumers also fall under this
regulation including particular cuts of beef and smoked/cooked meat products,
canned meats, chicken, sausages, salami, pork fat, milk and milk powder
(except 2.8S fat), sour cream (except 201 fat), butter (except 801 fat),
margarine, certain cheeses, paprika, flour, sugar, rice, some types of bread,
coffee, and domestic beer. Most of the important food products for domestic
consumers that are excluded from the above regulation on price increases are
included under the fixed price category for consumer prices.



- 72 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 13
7.       The following products, which represent only 20-30S of domestic food
sales continue to be subject to fixed prices after January 1988.
a. most cuts of pork
b. some cuts of beef (sirloin, rumpsteak, shank, soup meats)
c. some cold cuts (Italian and Verona)
d. milk (2.&2 fat content)
e. cheese (Trappist, edami, ovari)
f. bread (1 type only)
g. granulated sugar
h. butter (80% fat)
i. sunflower oil
j. rolls
k. some sausage
1. salt
m. baby food
a. sour cream (20% fat)
B. Taxes. Earnings Regulation
S.       Enterprises in primary agriculture paid considerably more taxes in
1986 (Ft 21 billion) than those in food industry (Ft 8.7 billion) as seen in
Table 2 below. The largest amount was paid in the form of profit taxes, a
total of Ft 11.1 billion, including both agriculture and food industry (see
Appendix Table 1 for detail). Most taxes in food industry were levied on
consumers. At the enterprise level in primary agriculture, subsidies were
mostly offset by taxes, yielding a small net subsidy balance (Ft 2.9
billion). Food industrial enterprises on the other hand received net support
ten times larger than primary agriculture (Ft 29 billion). Even when supports
and taxes on consumers are taken into consideration, food industry received
large net positive transfers (Ft 19 billion).
Table 2: Taxes and Support AffectinE Socialist Enterpnses in 1986
(millions Forints)
Food Industry     Agriculture      Total
Enterprise Subsidies 8'                      38,607          24,196        62,803
Enterprise Taxes I'                           8,780          21,245        30,025
Balance Enterprise Supports/Taxes            29,827           2,951        32,778
Consumer Subsidies                           12,300           2,500        14,800
Turnover Taxes on Consumption                22,600           1,910        24,510
Balance Agriculture Sector,
Supports/Taxes                             19,527           3,541        23,068
a/ Includes production, investment, input, export and "non-normative"
subsidies to lossmaking enterprises.
b/ Includes profit, production, municipal, land, earnings and wage, and
accumulation taxes.
Source: See Appendix Table 1



ANNEX 3
-73-                         Page 5 of 13
9.       Under the 1988 tax reformi, the profit tax levied on gross income of
enterprises, municipal tax, and accumulation tax on investment will be
eliminated. These taxes will be replaced by three new taxes; a linear profit
tax set at 50X of net income, a Value Added Tax (15 or 251), and personal
income tax (PIT). Wages on workers' principal jobs were increased January 1
to enable them to begin paying taxes. Wages from second jobs, however, were
not adjusted. Favorable treatment is granted to agriculture and food industry
under the new tax system. For example, the linear profit tax for agriculture
is only 40% vs. 50% for the rest of the economy and fertilizer, plant
protective materials, and protein feeds will be subject to 0% VAT rate.
Agricultural enterprises will pay the higher profit tax rate on all their
non-agricultural activities.
10.      Two temporary demand management features will apply to the tax system
until 1992, an earnings regulation scheme which is designed to prevent
"excessive" wage increases and a VAT tax on investment goods. Authorities
fear that in the absence of this tax, investment would surge with the
elimination of the accumulation tax thus placing unacceptable pressure on
Government's stabilizatian program. The government determined that
enterprises may not increase their total wage b'.ll in current prices by more
than 32 in 1988. Brnuses paid above that level will also be highly taxed.
Considering the expe_ted 151 rate of inflation, real wages will therefore
decline. The manner in which enterprises distribute the 3% is left to their
discretion. Higher than average increases can be granted to productive
employees provided the total increase in the enterprise wage bill does not
exceed the limit. Layoffs could also provide the margin for higher per
employee increases though the government's policy on unemployment in
agriculture has not been fully articulated. In certain branches such as
baking where the government does not perceive woi.kers to be underemployed, the
31 ceiling applies to each employee to eliminate the incentive for enterprises
to reduce labor force.
11.      Although the Ministry of Agriculture assumed a wage increase in
agriculture and food industry of 3% in 1988 for purposes of estimating the
reform program's impact, a special system of earnings regulation that will
apply to only the agriculture sector calls such predictions into question.
Under the new system, the total wage bill in each agricultural enterprise may
not increase by more than the increase in gross value added they achieve over
the previous year. Enterprises that either achieve no increase or register a
decline in value added cannot increase their total wage bill. Wages cannot
fall in current terms, however, even if value added declines, and enterprises
in branches such as meat which have negative value added will be permitted to
increase wages as long as they register a marginal improvement. In 1986,
gross value added in the food industry subsector declined from Ft 16 billion
to Ft 10 billion (-371), while that of primary agriculture increased from
FT 109 billion to FT 115 billion (+5%). Although the new system is based on
value added changes for individual enterprises, this would seem to imply that
the new earnings regulation should treat agriculture more favorably.
12.      Although there is no guarantee that projections based on branch
performance will equal the actual aggregate of individual enterprise given
that value added earnings regulation applies on an enterprise basis, Table 3
calculates the wage increases that would have been permitted under the new



-74-
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 13
system based on the 1985-86 performauice uf food industry branches, By
comparing this to the actual increases in the wage bill that occurred in 1986,
it illustrates the potential contradictions that may arise under the new
system. Despite the 37% decline in aggregate value added in food industry in
1986, the total wage bill for the sector would have been permitted to increase
by 51 under the new system because wages are sticky downward and enterprises
improving negative value added performance are permitted to raise wages.
Although the difference between this outcome and the actual increase of 7%
that took place is not very significant, the implied distribution of income
gains among branches would have been radically altered. Previously, branches
such as sugar, beer, and soft dirnks which had the best performance in terms
of increasing value added, received the smallest percentage increase in
wages. Alternatively, branches such as poultry and canning and preserving
where negative value added more than doubled received the highest wage
increase in 1986. Although these branch totals may have been skewed by
variable enterprise performance this comparison argues for some change in the
system of rewards. Basing allowable increases on enterprises improving, or
achieving, profitability rather than value added would be a more reasonable
basis on which to proceed and would avoid the contradiction of enterprises
with negative value added being permitted to increase wages as long as some
marginal improvement is achieved.
Table 3: Impact o.. Nw Waae Reaulation an Food Industry
Gross Value Added   Allowable % Wage   Actual %  Amount of
(mins ft)     Increase Under New  Increase   Overcompensation (+)/
1985      1986   Earnlnas Regulation in 86 Waes UndereogMansation (-)
Meat Industry      (6,796)   (6,199)          9%          4%           -128
Poultry & Eggs       (631)   (1,683)          0%         12%           111
Dairy Industry      2,487    2,725           10%         10%            -3
Canning & Preserving   (718)   (2,069)        0%         12%            205
Milling             5,780    3,893            0%          6%            86
Baking              3,572    3,801            6%          6%             3
Sugar               2,160    2,598           20%          4%           -112
Confectionary       1,417      943            0%         10%            58
Vegetable Oil       2,155     (220)           0%          3%             9
Alcohol             2,034    1,939            0%          7%            31
Wine                  447      180            0%          8%            52
Beer                1,986    2,215           12%         10%            -9
Soft Drinks           303      369           22%          6%            -19
Tobacco             1,264    1,275            1%          8%            24
Total              15,460    9,767            5%          7%            308
Source: Hungarian Industrial Yearbook 85-86.



-75-
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 13
13.      Another measure designed to restrict aggregate demand for a period
following phase out of the accumulation tax is the 25S VAT tax that will be
applied to investment goods for a 5 year period. A portion of this tax is
recoverable by the enterprise making investment in each of the next five
years. The application of this provision to agriculture is more favorable
than for other sectors of the economy. The tax paid on investment in
livestock is 100% recoverable in 1988 effectively exempting it from this tax;
other designated priority areas for investment in agriculture such as
irrigation, farm road construction, export promotion, land amelioration,
storage, and the super-corn production program are subject to an accelerated
VAT recovery schedule. The effective VAT tax rate for investment undertaken
in the years 1988-92 after allowable recovery is shown in Table 4.
Table 4: Recoverable VAT Tax ADUhed to Investment Goods and Works
Economy-wide        Priority Sectors in Agriculture         Livestock
1988              20Z                           12.5%                          0
1989              15%                            6.22                          0
1990              10%                            0                             0
1991               52                            0                             0
1992                0                            0                             0
14.      Small-scale agricultural producers will also enjoy favorable
treatment under the new personal income tax system. Families having sales
revenue on their production of less than FT 500,000 p.a. will be completely
exempt form taxation (approximately 90% of households). Those who have sales
below FT 2 million will pay a tax of 10% of sales revenue on crops and 30% on
livestock, irrespective of costs. Those households with sales above that
level will pay the Entrepreneur tax on 25% of sales with the balance subject
to the PIT schedule. Only market sales by small producers are relevant for
purposes of calculatin, these tax rates.  Barter of commodities among
households and own consumption are not considered.
C. Subsidies
15.      The use of subsidies, subventions or fiscal support - the third set
of "regulatory instruments" - is the key incentive instrument used in
Hungarian agriculture. The costs of these programs are very high -- Ft 65
billion (USD 1.3 billion) for the agricultural sector in 1986 ksee Appendix
Table I and 2 for details). This is summarized in Table 5 below:



-76-
ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 13
Table 5: Supports in Agriculture - 1986
Primary Agriculture                         Ft million             USD million
Large-Scale Socialist Enterprises          24,196 (371)                493
Small-Scale Producers                       1,052 (2X)                   21
Forestry                                    1,519 (2X)                   31
Food Industry                              38,607 (59%)                787
TOTAL                                      65,374                    1,333
Source: Appendix Tables 1 and 2.
16.      These figures exclude the cost of consumer subsidies, an additional
Ft 15 billion in 1986. Direct consumer subsidies were mainly provided for
meat and milk products. The intent of other types of supports provided to
enterprises, however, is also to protect consumers. For example, the subsidy
in the category "Enterprise Supports" for the bakery industry was primarily
intended was given to prevent price increases on bread. The total of all
supports provided to agriculture in 1986, including consumer subsidies,
amounted to Ft 80 billion, 131 of total government expenditures that year and
81 of GDP at current producer prices.
Support for FoodIndustry
17.      The first category of subsidies according to the classification
system used in Hungary are "enterprise supports" (Ft 2.6 billion). Four
industries received this type of subvention in 1986, most being equity-type
allocations. This included certain enterprises in the meat industry that were
provided special grants in connection with the breakup of the Meat Trust
necessary to restore financial solvency. This type of subvention should
theoretically be a one-time allocation. A new distillery at Szabad also
received a credit subsidy to finance equity. The Grain Trust received a
grant, but the purpose is unknown. The subsidy for the Bakery Industry was
already mentioned (see Appendix Table 1 for breakdown).
18.      The largest categories of supports for food industry are export
subsidies. Producers of exports destined for non-CMEA markets received
subsidies of Ft 10 billion, as the government sought to cushion the effects of
continuing low market prices (relative to 1980-81) and prevent a loss of
export markets. CMEA exports received even greater subvention. CMEA Price
Equalization, (Ft 8.8 billion) was provided to exporters to make them
indifferent between exporting to the CMEA and selling on the domestic market
at a price whic'i covers their costs plus profit. There are other subsidies
provided for CMEA Trade (Ft 14.6), though the breakdown is not known. It
appears to include the Foreign Trade Policy Fund which provides subsidies in



ANNEX 3
-77-                        Page 9 of 13
connection with those export and import transactions undertaken to fulfill
intergovernmental agreements that otherwise would not be profitable for
Hungarian enterprises. This fund alsu may support intervention expenses
incurred for market development or stockpiling to stabilize prices. In the
latter case, it is not clear what proportion of intervention expenses can be
attributed to CMEA and non-CMEA trade.
19.      The category of "Investment Subsidies" to food industry (Ft 1.3
billion) is believed to include mainly grant-type supports for various
targeted investments in food processing. Many invesment subsidies are
provided indirectly, however, through a reduction in the profit tax. This
type of support is likely not included in the relatively modest amount listed
under investment subsidies. The amount of such subsidies is unknown.
Agroprocessing firms borrowing for investment that will increase convertible
currency exports, including IBRD funds that will be onlent through the new
Agroprocessing Modernization Loan, are eligible for a 50% rebate on interest
paid in the form of a reduction in profit tax liability as long as they meet
planned export targets. The total cost of investment concessions is thus
likely to be considerably higher than the amount of direct investment support
included in Appendix Table 1. The last category of support under food
industry are consumer subsidies. These are primarily given for meat (Ft 5.3
billion) and milk products (Ft 7 billion).
Future Policy on Enterprise Supports
20.      The essential questions concerning subsidies, irrespective of the
type are: Can the country afford the explicit and implicit cost to the
economy; to what extent can this burden be reduced; and how can this be done
without compromising the original objectives of the intervention? The total
amount of subsidies given to agriculture, including food industry, expressed
as a percentage of agricultural and total GDP are given below for Hungary and
selected OECD countries (Table 6).
Table 6
Agricultural Subsidies, 1986                   OECD (average for 1979-81)
or supports as % of:  Hungary          EEC   U.S.   Japan   Australia    Austria
of Agric. GDP            34%           93.0   42.0   104.0       9.0          60.0
of Total GDP              8%            2.8    1.3      2.9      0.5           2.6
Source: Appendix Table 2.
While the argument can be made that Hungarian subsidies to enterprises in
primary agriculture are offset to some extent by taxes, the same cannot be
said for food industry. In addition, the same argument would apply to the
other countries compared in the table. Where there are high taxes, they



-78-
ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 13
should be reduced as a means to facilitate lower subsidies, thereby reducing
distortions and efficiency losses for the economy. Subsidization in Hungarian
agriculture is significantly higher than the OECD countries as a p-oportion of
GDP. The challenge for Hungarian agriculture is to reduce these levels
without unduly compromising the goals set out for the subsidies. This
requires a careful evaluation of these subsidies, their priorities, and how
each can be attained at lower costs.
21.      Government has announced its firm intent to reduce subsidies in
coming years. Consumer subsidies were reduced by 67% in January 1988 from Ft
13.0 billion (US$300 million) in 1987 to 4.5 billion (US$95 million). Only
milk will be covered under consumer Price Equalization in 1988. Aggregate
subsidies to primary agricultural producers are expected to decline by Ft 3
billion in 1988, 11% of the Ft 24 billion they received in 1986. The rate of
export subsidies to convertible currency markets will also be reduced from a
maximum of 34% to 31%, but whether or not the stock of export subsidies
decline is not yet clear given projected increases in output. Specific rates
for products and markets are still under discussion. Government also expects
to reduce the levels of investment subsidies provided in the form of interest
rate reductions or equity contributions. The subsidy on investment oriented
toward increasing exports to convertible currency markets will be maintained
at 502 of the commercial borrowing rate. This is effected through reductions
in corporate tax liability given that enterprises meet specified targets on
incremental exports to these markets. Preliminary government statements
regarding subsidy reductions to be introduced next year, primarily affecting
consumers, are encouraging. However, it is not clear that this intent will be
reflected in a medium term program of well considered reduction in the overall
level of producer subsidies rather than the previously more common approach of
adjusting subsidies to compensate for taxes.



-79-
ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 13
APPENDIX 1
IAb]* I
TA'9  A   SUOdMTA AFftLXm't  M!AL1tT iSuy t1d"isr
E. nterprise Supports (DOotack)                         2.514                      Enterprise Suapprtg              13.2114                             IS.544
of widich:                                                                       of ,ghicht
meat Industry Equity AllcCationi"                                   floes        Milk Prodution Sub$idys'                      .0
=akry Industry SubSidy                                                 127       Subsidy on Calves (for betf)                   so
Grain Trutt Subst dy                                                  706        F1re6 Supplem. Slaughter C&ttle              1.700
Alcohwol tndustry equity allocation'                                  100        Subsidy for Disadvantatgd Areas              5.200
Sht & Goat Raising                             200
"eultivation of Unutilized Land               100
Fish Production                                loo
trrilation                                     ISO
Narries Planting                                10
tplo~nt of NMndicasped                          10
2.  CQEA Price Equalization (Kosponti alapokbol)          5.859                                                          506                               91341
3.  Othtr SubSidies (Egyab Tbo%atosok                    251.974                                                      2.720                               28.694
Of which:
Export Subsidies fOr non-CIEA 'mrket                               10,000                                                     1.200
Other subsidies on CIlA trade"                                     14.674                                                     1.120
Other Production Subsidies                                          1.300
lb. Spoecil Subsidies to Los5s-Uing Cooperatives            166                                                       113"                                 1.114
(AX ErdMnyelsmolast Koveto Folyol
4.  tnvestwtnt (SceuLulation) Subsidies                   1.200                                                       3.500                                4,500
1.  Subsidies on Inputs" (domstic and ieortsl                  -                                                      *416                                 4,416
6.  Subtotal - Supports for Agricultural Enterprises    -
(sum 1 )                                           38.773                                                      25564                               64.3t7      
7.  Conswmr Subsidies (Artesgatasokl                     12.300                                                       2.500                               14,800
of v1inie:
Milk                                                                7.000                                              -                                   -
mest                                                                1,100
.   otal SuPports in Agriculture (6 * 7)                 51 .071                                                     26.084                               791517
9.  Profit Tax                                            4.430                                                       6.770                               11.200
10.  Production Tax                                         310                                                       1.950                                6.290
I.  Municipal Tax                                         1.370                                                      a2,3o                                 3.100
12.  Land Tax                                                                                                         1,780                                1.750
13.  Earningsnd UWge Tax                                    930                                                       2.510                                3.440
14.  Accumulation And Property Tax                        1.740                                                       2,075                                3.581
15.  Subtotal Taxes on Agricultural
Enterprises (9-14)                                  8780                                                        12452S
16.  Turnover Tax on Consumption                         22.600                                                       1,910                               24.510
17.  Total Taxes in Agriculture (IIS    161              31                                                           3,5                                 14lSS
18.   alance SUPports & Taxes on                         z*2                                                         2                                    54SI
AgriCultural [nterprise; (6-15)                    29 .99                                                       4.339                               32,775
19.  Balance Supparts 6 Taxe  in AgriCulture (5-171   19,693                                                          4.929                               23.06t|
I/   financial assisttnce associated with breakup of teat Trust.
V/   Credit subSidy granted to Slabad Factory to finance start up capital.
2/   2.9 forints/lit.
_/   Subsiidies for dinstic priCe adjustitnt for trad  mung so_ctilist ceuntriest an  coemensation
of other int4rvention expenses.
5/   Subsidies on industrial inputs of aeriCultural origin and other inpts including fortilizer.
Soure: A Ntftaidasag Fejlodesnak Fletb Mutatol, Ministry Of Finance,
Ministry of Agriculture and Fod Industry, Ntional Planning OffiCe



-80-
ANNEX 3
Page 12 of 13
APPENDIX 2
Table 2
SUMMARY OF ENTERPRISE SUPPORTS IN THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR - 1986
Enterprise           Supports
Branch                         Category          (mlns forints)          USD (mlns)
1. Agriculture                SocialistL'          24,196                    493
2.  Food Industry             Socialist            38,607                    787
3.  Forestry                  Socialist             1,519                     31
4.  Subtotal Socialist Branches (sum 1-3)          64,322                  1,312
5.  Agriculture               Private.'             1,052                      21
6.  Subtotal Agricultural Supports (4-5)           65,374                  1,333
7.  Total Supports incl. Consumer Subsidies       80,174                   1,636
8.  Gross Value Added (GVA)
Agriculture, Forestry & Food Industry       189,000                   3,857
9.  of which:  Food Industry                       10,000                    204
10.  Agricultural  Supports as X of GVA in
Agriculture, Forestry & Food Industry (6/8)                            34%
11.  Total Supports as % of GDP1' (7/991 bln)                                 8%
12.  GVA of Socialist Enterprises in
Agriculture, Forestry, Food Industry       132,000                   2,694
13.  Supports for Socialist Enterprises
as 2 of Socialist GZVA (4/12)                  482
14.  GVA of Small Farmers in Agriculture          57,000
15, Supports for small farmers as % of their GVA    1.82
16.  Supports as X of Government Expenditure4'
(7/608 bln)                                    132
17.  Supports as X of Government Budget Deficit   174S
'/ Socialist enterprises include large scale state enterprises, cooperatives,
and their joint ventures.
2/  Private includes small scale household and auxiliary farms and privately
owned farms. (Subvention includes only Kozvetett Tamogatasok.)
3/  Current Producer Prices.
4/  Current Expenditure in 1986 =  608 bln., budget deficit 46 bln.
Source: A Nepgazdasag Fejlodesenek Fobb Mutatoi (data for 1986 t&om CSO),
Ministry of Finance, National Planning Office, and mission estimates.



-81-
ANNEX 3
Page 13 of 13
APPENDIX 31
TOTAL ESTIMATE TAXIES PAID 8Y AGROPROCESSING 1ETERPRISES
IN SURSECTORS! FY36
(Forint million)
Project Branches:       Profit   Production  Municipal   Earnings   Accumulation   Property         Total
Poultry                  414           32          76         65           62             0          649
Canning & Preserving     662           23         129        127           180            0        1.121
Win                      208          n/a          42         31            55            0          336
Soft Drinks               54           10          20         32            5            15          136
Total             1,338           65         267        255          302            15        2,242
Source: industrial Yearbook. 1986, Ministry of Agriculture, and mission estimates.
ITab*A
TOTAL ESTIMATED SUBSIDlES RECEIVED BY AGROPROCESSIN( ENXTERPRISES
IN PbO.ECT SURSECTORS: FYB6
(Forint million)
Supports to           Investment            Consumer          Total
bS ectcrs                Entrarises lJu         Subsid/is           Subsidies        Suphnrts
Poultry                          4,300                    12                 1,030           5,342
Canning & Preserving             8,506                   310                   100           9,280
Wine                             2.216                     0                     0           2,216
Soft Drinks                          0                     0                    0                0
Total                      15,386                   322                1,130           16,838
1J/ Supports to agroprocessing enterprises can be disaggregated into investment grants 0.2 , support for
CIEA trade 65S, and support for non-CWEA exports 34.8S.
Source: Industrial Yearbook, 1986, Ministry of Agriculture, and mission estimates.



-82-
ANNEX 4
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Financial Ratios for Selected U.S. and Hungarian Industry Groups for 1986:
Poultro Dressing, ProL-essed Fruits & Vegetables, Wime, and Hardwood Flooring Industries
Poultry     Processed F & V         Wine         Flooring
US      HU      US       HU       US       HU     US      HU
Solvency
QR(times)        1.0     0.6      0.5     0.4      0.4      0.4    1.0    1.2
CR(times)        1.6     1.7      1.6      1.8     1.9      1.8    2.1    3.3
CL/NW(%)        66.4    73.6    88.2    81.8    56.3    71.3   44.9   14.6
CL/INV(2)      212.6   148.5    99.4    97.7    62.9    85.3   89.1   53.2
TL/NW(2)       108.7    95.1   136.3    97.0   105.7    88.8   70.8   20.7
FA/NW(%)        64.1    70.4    48.5    52.6    52.4    60.9   54.0   72.2
Efficiency
CP(days)        21.9    48.2    25.9    58.9    39.4    51.1   27.0   40.3
S/INV(times)   22.3      6.2      5.5      2.2     1.1      2.0    7.9    4.2
ASS(%)          25.4    63.7    57.7   107.6   178.8   113.7   48.2  106.1
S/WC(times)    21.6      6.0      8.7      2.9     1.7      2.9    6.4    3.4
AP/S(%)          3.8     8.7      7.4      7.3     9.4      9.3    3.3    3.5
Prof iailiEtv
ROS(%)           1.2     2.3      2.0     4.1    -0.1       2.6    4.0    6.1
ROA(2)           5.5     3.7      2.9      3.8    -0.4      2.3    9.2    5.7
RONW(%)         13.8     7.2      7.8      7.6    -0.1      4.3   17.4    6.9
Key: A = Assets; AP = Accounts Payable; CL   Current Liabilities; CP =
Collection Period; CR = Current Ratio; FA = Fixed Assets; Inv = Inventory;
NW = Net Worth; QR = Quick Ratio; ROA = Return on Assets; RONW = Return on Net
Worth; ROS = Return on Sales; S - Sales; TL = Total Liabilities; WC = Working
Capital.
Sources:  (1) Dun and Bradstreet, Industry Norms and Key Business Ratios,
1986-87, for U.S. industry groups; (2) NBH and MEM, for Hungarian industry
groups.



-83-                                             ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS FOR POULTRY, CANNED FRUITS, AND
VEGETABLES, WINE, AND WOOD PRODUCTS SUBSECTORS, 1986 THROUGH 1995
--- POILTRY           CAU  F I V           -----MIE             O O PRIUCTS
1906 ... 15          1986 ... 1995        1    ... 195         19  ..4 1995
INICOE STATENENT ITEN1S BY SUSSECTOR F0  1936 AND 1995
(HtIF billions)
IVE
Saln, oacluding Subsidies
DOEstic Sale                                  6.79    14.15        6.07    12.65        2.57     5.3        12.91    25.W0
Convertible Currency Sale                     5.17    10.77        2.24     4.67         .93     1.94        2.06     3.10
Non-Convertible Currency Sales                4.21     9.77        4.89    10.19        4.30     1.9          .04      .07
Total Sales                              16.17    33.69       13.20    27.51        7.90    16.26       15.13    28.97
Subsidies
On Convertible Currency Sales                 2.70     2.93        5.60     9.02        3.10     2.93        1.31     1.51
On Non-Convertible Currency Sales             2.70     2.93        3.70     5.95        2.60     2.45         .02      .02
Total Subsidies                           5.40     5.96        9.30    14.97        5.70     5.38        1.33     1.53
Total Incoo                                   21.57    39.55        22.50    42.48       13.50    21.44       17.14    30.50
COSTS & EXPENSES
Cost of Sale                                   20.71    34.01       20.25    36.53       12.15    11.61       14.24    24.24
Earnings before Interest & Taxes          .89      5.54        2.25     5.95        1.35     3.03        2.92     4.24
Interest                                          0       .54          0      1.06           0      .07           0      .40
less Rebate on Interest                     0      (.08)         0      (.15)         0      t.15         0      (.05)
et Incom  before Taxes                    .86     5.09         2.25     5.02        1.35     2.31        2.92     3.71
Tames                                            .34     2.03         .90     2.01         .54      .92        1.17     1.41
Net Inca.                                        .52     3.05        1.35     3.01         .81     1.39        1.75     2.23
page I of 3)
SWICEs Figurs showm in the above tabe l re extracted tr   a  ries of detailed tables (on 4r e ach eu ctul)  hich sm
projected figures for each year froe 19  through 15. The source tables  re include  in th  Ispleeetatl.. teWrt for the
Agroprocensing Noernization Project.



ANNEX  5
-84-                                               Page  2 of  3
HUNGARY
AGROPIUCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS FOW POULTRY, CANNED FRUITS, AND
VEGETABLES, WINE, AND WOOD PRODUCTS SUBSECTORS, 1986 THROUGH 1995
- - - POULTRY         CAED F I V           - - - - MINE         WOOD PRODUCTS
1986 ... 1995        1983  ... 1995       196 ... 1995         1916 ... 1995
BALANCE SHEET ITEIS DY SU1SECTOR FOR 1986 AlD 1995
(HIF hillimn)
ASSETS
Cash                                             .20     4.50         .34     4.50          .12    4.50          .66     4.50
bceivables                                      2.49     2.30        3.04     2.10         1.52     1.90        1.70     1.60
Invetorin                                       3.05     1.60        9.61     8.50        5.31      7.00        3.81     3.60
Other Currnt Asets                              1.94      .10        2.95     2.90         1.16     1.30         .57      .50
Total Current  ssets                      7.68     9.50       14.84    18.00        8.11    14.70         6.74    10.20
Fised Assets                                    5.86    11.10        7.97     8.90         5.42     7.00       14.12    15.60
less Acus. Depreciation                  (1.52)   (8.70)      12.56)   (6.70)       (1.56)   (5.30)      (4.09)   (9.10)
Balance                                         4.34     2.40        5.41     2.20'        3.96     1.70       10.03     6.50
Total kAsts                                    12.02    10.90       20.25    20.20        11.97    16.40       16.77    16.70
LIADILITIES
Short-Term Loans                                2.50     2.90        6.48     8.70         3.40     6.90         .22     3.50
Payeble                                         1.74     1.40        1.50      1.50        1.06     .90          .94      .90
Other Current Liabilities                        .30      .30         .43       .50         .06      .10         .97     1.00
Total Currant Liabilities                 4.54     4.60        9.41    10.70        4.52     7.90         2.03     5.30
Loag-Tern  Loans                                1.32     1.40        1.56       .80        1.11     1.30         .85     1.10
Total Liabilities                         5.86     6.00        9.97    II.SO        5.63     9.10         2.08     6.40
NET IATN
Fixed Asets Fund                                2.85     2.90        3.92     3.90         2.87     2.90        8.67     9.70
Current ksets Fund                              1.20        0        4.08     2.20         2.07     2.10        2.90        0
Rerve  Fund                                      .14      .10         .12       .10         .05      .10         .09      .10
Interest Fund                                    .10     1.70         .18     2.30         .09      1.20         .26     1.10
Other Funds                                     1.43        0        1.20        0         1.00     1.00        1.01        0
btained Eanings                                  .44      .20         .78       .20         .27      .10         .96      .40
Total Net North                           6.16     4.90       10.29     8.70        6.34      7.30       13.89    10.30
Total Liabilities and Net lwrth                12.02    10.90       20.25    20.20        11.97    16.40       16.77    16.70
Ipage 2 of 3)
SQUICEi  Figuren  hown in the above table were atracted from a urien of detailed tables (one for eah subsector), which show
projctod figures for ech yer roe 1986 through 1995. The source tabln  are included in the Ioplemnntation Report for the
AgoKrocnsin Nodernization Project.



ANNEX 5
-85-                                            Page  3 of 3
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIzATION PROJECT
SUMHARY OF FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS FOR POULTRY, CANNED FRUITS, AND
VEGETABLES, WINE, AND WOOD PRODUCTS SUBSECTORS, 1986 THROUGH 1995
--- POULTRY          CANNED F % V         ---- NINE          N    POCTO
1986 ... 195        199  ... 199         19  ... 1995        1916 ... 19U5
RATIOS OF KEY iALANCE SHEET A0N INCUIE STATENET ITEIS DY SU85ECTOR FOR 1996 MND 1995
SOLU.CY
Qick Ratio (tim)                             .60     1.50        .40      .60         .40     .00         1.20    1.20
Curreat Ratio (tiwe)                        1.70    1.90        1.90    1.70         1.90     1.90        3.30    1.90
Current Liabi'iles to Net North (1)        73.7X   93.91       81.91   123.02       71.32  106.81       14.61   51.51
Curret Liabik. 'tn to lnwvetories (1)    141.9   237.51        97.71   125.91       05.1t  111.41       S3.31   147.21
Total Liabilitin to Net korth (2)         95.1l  122.42        97.01   132.21       88.81   124.72      20.71    62.11
Fixed Assets to Net North (21)            95.1   226.52        77.52  102.32        85.52    95.91     1o0.n   I5i.51
EFFICIENCY
Collection Period (days)                   42.00   21.00       49.00    19.00       41.00    32.00      36.00    19.00
Saln to Invetorin (tiesn                    7.10    24.70       2.60     5.00        2.5     3.10       4.50     8.50
Total ssets to Sales (1)                  55.71   27.62        90.01   47.61        93.n    75.8t       97.7t   54.31
Sale to lorkiwng Capital (tion)             6.90    10.10       3.50    5.90         3.00     3.10       3.60     6.20
Payabln to Sale  (2)                        9.11    3.52        6.71    3.52         7.92     4.22       4.91     2.U
PROFITIILITY
Return  n SBale  (1)                        2.41    7.72        6.01     7.11        6.01     6.41       10.21    7.32
Return on Asuts (tl                         4.31    23.02       6.72    14.92        6.92     9.52      10.42    13.32
Return on Net North (2)                     9.41    62.22      13.12   34.61        12.81    19.01      12.U2   21.61
SU9IDIES IID TAIES
usidies to Sales I2)                       25.02    14.92      41.31   35.21        42.21   24.92        7.89    5.02
Tame to Saln et)                            1.U6    5.22        4.01     4.72        4.02    4.32        6.2      4.91
paqe 3 of 3)
SOIUCE  Figres dsa   in the ab* table sre extracted from a swiss of detailed tables  on for each subsuctor), dhich shov
projecte  fiur  for ach yer from 1989 throh 1995. The source tables we included in the leplemtatin Report for the
Agroprorsimg Nodersization Project.



ANNEX 6
-86-                            Page 1 of 4
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
SUBSECTOR GRADING AND QUALITY CONTROL
A.Bacround
1.       Enhancement and consistency of the quality of processed foods are
essential ingredients in the overall efforts to expand, improve and retain
overseas markets for Hungarian goods. Basic to the achievement of higher
quality products are two factors: (a) improved production practices at the
farm level and more enlightened and responsible quality control at the
processing level; and (b) adoption of a more progressive, transparent and
market-oriented grading system, particularly for agricultural raw materials.
Hungarian authorities are presently considering the actions required to revise
and upgrade their own standards of quality in order that they may be more
closely aligned with requirements in the principal convertible currency
markets.
2.       Several issues have influenced attitudes and practices relating to
quality control, and have also affected the functioning of an effective
grading system. First, government policy in the past was directed toward the
goal of food self-sufficiency. Second, the regulatory environment and the
lack of price and profit incentives discouraged higher quality finished goods
and their raw materials for processing. Third, the full employment goals of
the Government, the subsidy protection and rewarding of volume production --
all have militated against more enlightened quality control practices, and an
effective market-oriented grading system along with adequate testing
controls. Fourth, the present Food Law, established in 1976, is weak and
supervisory authority has been scattered throughout different Miristries.
B. Features of Current Grading System
Pkactices and Constraints
3.       General standards of quality for both processed foods and
agricultural raw materials have been in existence in Hungary for some time.
They are established or modified every so often after consultation among the
Government Ministries, the processors and producers. Products are graded or
classified based on their quality characteristics and these become part of the
Hungarian national standards. In addition, processing firms are presumed to
have some form of internal quality control for raw materials entering the
plant, as well as for semi-finished and finished products.
4.       Agricultural raw materials are classified into at least two, and,
sometimes, three grades or quality categories. In broad terws, it is not
unlike the USDA system, except in Hungary, some of the prices on the farm
level are prescribed by Government for the different grades within the
limitations established. For example, approximately 30 standards have been



-87-                             ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4
established covering fruits and vegetables for processing.  The Ministry of
Agriculture (MEM) may take an active role in establishing test methods for
individual processing plants, but inspection or testing of raw materials is
carried out only in the event of a dispute between the contracting parties
concerning the quality of the goods. The test results of the local MEM Food
Control Station are decisive. In regard to goods destined for export, buyer's
specifications as defined in contractual agreements take precedence over
minimum national standards. The major shortcomings of the Hungarian standards
are their imprecise nature of evaluation criteria, i.e., the limited scope of
quality factors or characteristics and the general lack of objective or
quantitative grading criteria. Foreign buyers have no reference available to
them for ordering specific grades from Hungarian enterprises.
histitutional Resposibility
5.       National standards for raw materials are embodied in the Hungarian
Bureau of Standards and are part of the Food Law. The Hungarian Quality
Control Institute (KERMI), under the control of the Ministry of Trade, is
responsible for approving any new processed food product to be sold in the
domestic market. The Ministry of Health (KOJAL) is responsible for testing of
chemical residite, additives, and colorings in processed foods. The Animal
Health and Food Control Centre as well as the county Food Control Stations of
MEM are responsible for the sanitary and hygienic aspects of food processing
plants. 1/ The Food Law itself appears to be a constraining factor in the
application of more stringent quality control measures and standards since
supervisory authority is fragmented among many government Ministries and
bodies.
C. PropoMsa for Reform
6.       The freeing of prices on both the farm and factory levels, the
gradual removal of subsidies and other reforms in the regulatory environment
should provide the most powerful impetus to improved product quality. Up to
now, there has been virtually little cost to Hungarian producers/processors
for low-quality goods. Studies indicate that the quality issue is more of a
management task than an issue of employee motivation and the following are
several main areas for reform of the grading system:
a) Revise the existing Food Law and centralize more authority irn MEM
in order to better control the interrelated quality issues in the
food industry;
b) Establish a uniform (i.e., to apply to all markets, domestic and
foreign), and market-oriented system of standards for both raw
material and finisted products;
1/ The sanitary requirements for all branches of the food processing industry
are contained in Ministerial Decree No. 10/1979 VI.16/MEM "Regulations
related to food hygiene in food processing."



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
c) Require the establishment of suitable quality control procedures
in all food processing establIshments selling to the public;
d) Carryout more intensive periodic testing by Government authorities
of finished processed products destined for export to determine
its adherence to contractual specifications or minimum Hungarian
national standards of quality; and
e. Develop well-defined standard- to serve as a guidepost for
production under improved quality control, and a mechanism for
purchase and sale contracts as it is reasonable to assume that
Government focus on the processed product will Increase the
pressure on the processor to exercise greater circumspection in
the acceptance of raw materials. It is not recommended that the
responsible Government authority "enforce" raw material standards
which seems an impractical task to begin with.
D. Project Component
Raw Materials Gwadint
7.       Recently the Food Control Institute of the Veterinary and Food
Hygiene Service of MEM has completed a review of its past efforts and recent
status of Hungarian standards and quality grades. On the basis of this
information, the Food Control Institute would prepare a survey to review the
grading standards of agroprocessed products in Western countries in Europe and
the USA taking into account veterinarian practices, grading methods and the
required equipment. MEM would then adapt these grading standards of primary
agricultural products to their own system for selected materials with special
regard to instrument testing, setting of parameters of establishing quality
and ensuring that quality control institutions in Hungary are upgraded to
provide adequate services to the industry. The timetable for the component
follows:
Action                                Completion Date
Preparation of TOR and submission to
Bank for comments                            October 31, 1988
Hiring of consultants and completion
of study                                     June 30, 1989
Introduction of methods, parameters, and
quality grades into the standards            December 31, 1989
Introduction of quality based raw material
grading systems                              March 31, 1990



- 89 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4
Quality Control Center for Final Products
8.       The objective of the quality control center for final products is to
create a professional capability within the Food Control Institute of MEM in
order to help establish a scientific base for setting Hungariar. standards,
which would be, in turn, based on existing practices in Western countries.
The center would also train experts in the food industry on the basis of
collected and organized information concerning testing and grading of
products. It would act as a library of information on quality control data
and information on the major export products in agriculture and create
channels of communication with local and foreign entities in food processing,
research, trade enterprises' standards and grading institutes, colleges and
training institutions. The timetable for implementation of the quality
control center would be as follows:
Action                                   C2MpKI.ion Date
Planning for the establishment of
the center                                        October 31, 1988
Preparing the necessary documentation
already availablt in Hungary                      December 31, 1988
Preparation of procurement documents                June 30, 1989
Arrival of quality control equipment                December 31, 1989
Updating and completion of the local
and foreign quality prescriptions                 December 31, 1989
Start up of the international level
services of the professional
quality control center                            March 31, 1990
Quality Control Laboratories
9.       Sophisticated equipment will be required in setting up a modern
quality control system in order to meet the testing requirements of exported
foods at the four existing regional state food control laboratories which are
managed by the Food Control Institute of MEM. In addition to the equipment
needed to test foods of harmful chemical residues, testing for vitamin
content, amino acid and sebacic acid, fiber content, etc. by modern
instruments on a regular basis will be undertaken. The estimated total cost
including price contingencies is US$1.8 million equivalent of which about 802
would be foreign exchange.



ANNEX 7
-90-                     Page 1 of 5
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Food Industries Research and Development Facility
A. Introduction
1.       Within the framework of the 7th five year plan period (1986-1990),
the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MEM) has prepared a priorities program
for research and development for the improvement and international
competitiveness of the food industry. The four priority areas are as follows:
1. StandardsandGradin :  Development of quantitative measures of
food quality standards, which will include the standards for raw
material inputs, additives, the end-products and industry
by-products. Quality levels are to be linked to economic
measures, and this implies without an explici- statement, the
development of quantitative grading standards for raw material
inputs and finished processed food products.
2. Qualit andvariet : Development of improved quality products,
particularly improvements in the nutritional value of processed
food end-products. Expansion of special-needs product categories
(e.g. dietetic, diabetic etc.), the range and variety of
processed foods, and an emphasis on the development of typically
Hungarian foods for the processed foods market. The improvement
in quality of locally produced packaging is explicitly included
in this priority category.
3. Manufacturin methods: The introduction of new methods of food
processing to promote efficient utilization of raw material
inputa; reduction in energy and other production input
requirements (including water use and conservation); substitution
of imported inputs; automation and computerization of production
and production controls; investigation of new biotechnological
methods of processing; reduction in any adverse impact of the
food industry's plants on the environment and particularly water
resources.
4z Cost effectiveness, efficienc.y and marketin: The reorganization of
existing production facilities, without additional plant
investment, to increase efficiency and capacity utilization;
improvement in the marketing aspects of the products and the
sales methods, including image development, expansion of product
ranges; improvements in storage and transport to market;
improvements in packaging, and the food distribution systems.



ANNEX 7
-91-                     Page 2 of 5
2.       This list of priorities covers the range of problems faced by the
agroprocessing sector. The University of Horticulture and Food Industry has
the major responsibility for the implementation of this program. Within the
framework of the above listed priorities, the University of Horticulture and
Food Industry (UHFI) has prepared programs for research and development and
for professional technical training for support under this project.
B. The Research and Development Program
3.       The objectives of the research program proposed for the Faculty of
Food Industry, in cooperation with the subsector producers, supports
modernization of the industry with an emphasis on all the proposed research
programs with the following objectives:
(a)   market-oriented, new-product development and product improvement;
(b)   improvements in production efficiency;
(c)   technical production improvements to meet specific marketing and
consumer requirements, enhanced export potential;
(d)   quality assurance; and
(e)   better utilization of by-products.
Progmams proposed:
4.     (i)   Inprovements inqualitycontrol:  research to establish the
required scientifically quantitative measures of quality,
establish the testing procedures and in-plant quality control and
quality assurance methodologies.
(ii) Product and process development:
(a) Canning industry, dried spices, and the vegetable and fruit processing
sector in general: development of new and improved consumer
oriented products, new and improved processing methods that
maintain a high post-processing biological value to the
products, economic utilization of waste products.
(b) Wine: research into the relationship of production and
processing methods and conditions on the consumer qualities
of wine; new processing technologies; automation; utilization
of by-produzts.
(c) Poultrv: development of new consumer-oriented products
(processed meats); improvements in hygienic methods and
product shelf-life; instrumentation and quantification of
quality control and testing.



ANNEX 7
-92-                      Page 3 of E
Staffing and Facilities:
5.       The proposed research program will be administered through the
Faculty of Food Industry, with staff resources of 110, of which 50 have
academic qualifications. Laboratory research facilities are available for the
proposed applied research. In addition, oilot plant facilities have been set
up in the Faculty, partially financed by the relevant industry research
association. The Government allocates budgetary running costs to the research
facility, and UHFI proposes that the current levels of about 30Z of research
running expenses, funded from contract research for the agroindustries, will
continue. UHFI has identified equipment required for the proposed research
program, to be funded under this loan and includes the provision of aseptic
processing and filling equipment, a very important development for the
Hungarian food industry in terms of the processes contribution both to the
efficiency improvement of the production lines, and to the quality improvement
of the end-products.  Under the project, a budget for staff training and
visits to international professional and research institutions would be
included along the lines suggested by UHFI social program of staff
development.
Research Project Priority Determination
6.       UHFI has determined the research program on the b.tsis of MEM's
research priorities, and responds to specific requests from the industry for
contract research. However the annual determination of the research project
priorities requires close cooperation with the industry so that the needs of
the industry are fully reflected. The legitimate influence of the industry on
UHFI's research project selection, as well as the national interests
represented by MEM, would be formalized into a decision-making mechanism that
determines research priorities for UHFI's implementation.
7.       Three levels of priority would be:  (a) ranking of research
requirements within each industry group; (b) ranking of research priorities
between industry groups; and, (c) determining the relation of these priorities
to the priorities of subjects common to all or most of the industry groups
(e.g. packaging). The setting of the inter- and intra-industry priorities is
especially important as the operating budget for research will be about 70%
financed from the Government budget, and thus the MEM and other interested
parties should exercise control over the specific application of these public
funds.
8.       Priority setting would be conducted through consultation between MEM,
the Ministry of Trade, and the various industry groups. UHFI as implementor
of the research program, would not set its priorities. Instead, UHFI would
provide these panels with their professional opinion on possible research
project topics and their technical importance, and design research project
proposals that respond to the industries' concerns, for consideration by the
panels. The priority setting for food industry research project funds
allocation would be the responsibility of MEM, conducted within a framework of
consultative advisory panels, working with the UHFI as the panels' secretariat



ANNEX 7
-93-                      Page 4 of 5
and technical advisors. Four industry specific advisory groups would be
established in the subsector: (a) wine; (b) fruit and other beverages;
(c) fruit and vegetable processing; and (d) poultry products. Each of these
advisory groups would consider three major subdivisions of
research topics:
(a)   new products and new processes;
(b)   quality standards and quality controls; and
(c)   packaging engineering and standards.
A consultative inter-industry panel should also be established to consider the
research priorities for topics of common interest and to advise the Minister
on the priorities between the industry groups. However this latter
inter-industry research project priority setting should fall more with MEM and
the Ministry of Trade than with this latter panel.
9.       The consultative advisory panels would consist of representatives
from MEM, the Ministry of Trade, and representatives appointed by the specific
industry association. Technical advisory services to each of the panels would
be provided by UHFI and such market-oriented bodies as KOPINT and the FTO's,
each of the latter by invitation. While the final research project-specific,
budget-allocation decision would be the prerogative of the Minister of
Agriculture, the intention of the industry orientation of the advisory panels
would be to ensure that the research is market and industry responsive.   The
clear implication of such an advisory system would be that UHFI not be given
an overall research budget, but a budget comprising a set of research project
and topic specific decisions. This requires that UHFI will have to prepare
annual research programs consisting of specific project applications for
consideration by the panels, each protect with its budget, its research
targets, and its marketing and production justifications.
C. Pa¢kagIn Standards
10.      There are a number of technical and non-technical issues related to
the setting of packaging standards which can be summarized in the following
areas:
(a) "preservation" standards, i.e. the food preserving properties of
the container which are mostly chemical and biochemical;
(b) "handling" standards, i.e. the container's protection during
handling which includes the number of units, i.e.materials, and
design used; and
(c) "aesthetic" standards, i.e. the quality of presentation of the
container.
11.      The "preservation" standards adcress the properties required by the
materials of the container to preserve and not contaminate the food. These
are chemical and biochemical interactions of the container material and the
fill material, and are related also to the processing, filling and sealing



-94-                  ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 5
methods. The establishment of the container materials properties from this
point of view lies with the Central Research Institute for Food Research.
Such packaging materials and methods standards will be among their immediate
priorities, and would include can standards. Also necessary is the
administrative framework not just for standards establishment, but for
standards enforcement.
12.      The "handling" standards relate to materials strength during storage,
transport and transfer. This is an area for industrial engineering, materials
sciences and design, and will be the responsibility of the Central Research
Institute for the Food Industry.
13.      Both sets of standards are well established with the food packing
industry of Westerri Europe. It would be a simple matter for the Institute to
collate all these standards, and convert them into the Hungarian food
processing industry's procurement standards, which the packaging suppliers
must meet. For both the "preservation" and the "handling" standards,
consultants will be required to convert the international standards into
quality control testing both within the pro4ucing industries and for
procurement testing by the buyers. Similarly, conversion of these standards
into manufacturing processing requirements will require consultancies as an
integral part of the modernization planning of the feeder industries.
14.      Perhaps the more difficult of the standards is the aesthetic
standard. As packaging is a selling medium, what it looks like, as against
its physical properties, is very important. Setting objective and measurable
standards for aesthetic requirements is very difficult, and while this has
been attempted, reliance is placed more on competition between producers to
provide acceptable aesthetic quality. Nevertheless, some standards and
specifications have been developed that can be applied, and consultancies from
packaging experts and industrial designers would provide these requirements,
and their translation into as objective a testing routine as is possible.
15.      The same Consultative Group which oversees the R&D in agroprocessed
foods will supervise the establishment of a packaging center within the
existing Central Research Institute for the Food Industry, which was created
in 1959 and is dedicatel to food technology and research in Hungary. It has
achieved certain results of its research which have been accepted at the
international level in the following areas: (a) impact mechanism of enzymes;
(b) fermentation kinetics; (c) preserving by radiation treatment; (d)
techniques in food testing - NIR; and (e) food microbiology. The Packaging
Center would seek to carry out a series of actions in testing containers and
packaging material particularly for export. It would cover all aspects of
packaging technology and give particular emphasis to testing materials during
storage, transportation, preservation impact, packing design and provide a
center of information and knowledge on research results in packaging materials
which would be made available to enterprises on request.



- 95 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 5
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSTIG MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Management and Marketing Training
A. Introduction
1.       The University of Horticulture and Food Industry (UHFI) of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MEM) has recently (January 1988) absorbed
the training functions of MEM's former Institute for Postgraduate Training of
Agricultural Engineers and Managers (MEVTI). MEVTI's course content has
evolved over the years, concentrating latterly on management in a changing
economic environment, the impact and exploitation of the international market
place, development of management's entrepreneurial skills, and the management
of introducing new technology. Training in marketing has been specifically
tailored to the needs of the participating group (e.g. management training
conducted for the dairy sector which includes marketing of dairy products as
the focus), but for marketing training in agroprocessing the approach has been
broader. Since 1983, specific marketing courses have been offered, which
concentrate on the management of market development and access to
international market information.
2.       A separate chair will be established at the Faculty of UHFI in
Budapest for administering management, junior management and marketing
training with a separate budget. About 45% of the training would be delivered
by the university staff and the balance by guest lecturers and visiting
teachers from staff of other institutes in Hungary as well as expatriates.
UHFI would also enter into a contLactual arrangement with a training institute
in Western Europe by December 31, 1988 and import the latest technology in
teaching methods, techniques, materials and equipment.
B. The Training Programs
3.       The UHFI proposes to restructure the management and marketing courses
for the agroprocessing sector to meet the requirements of the modernization
program, and the changes in the management of the sector.   It has prepared a
comprehensive training program for management and for marketing, specific to
the modernization of the agroprocessing sector. The program presented for
support under this project was prepared in conjunction with the Industry and
Export sectors, as well as the MEM departments responsible for Professional
Education and Research.
4.       Objective:  The objective of the training is: (a) to incorporate
modern management practices at the enterprise level; (b) to improve the
efficiency of enterprises with existing technologies; and (c) to improve the
speed and effectiveness of decision-making by enterprise managers within a
market-determined context. Development of enterprise management that is
market responsive and profit oriented will be the dominant focus of the
training.



ANNEX 8
-96-                         Page 2 of 5
5.        ar  ttrai_ees.  Training will be targeted at senior, middle and
junior management and marketing personnel. The initial participants in these
courses will be personnel from enterprises selected for financing under the
loan but it will also be made available to statf from agroindustrial
enterprises not selected for financing under the loan, as they would have
similar training requirements for their general management and marketing
staffs. It is expected that during the period 1990-92, about 440 persons
would participate in the management and junior management training and about
140 persons in the marketing training. The target participant group would be
expanded from the traditional source of UHFI's trainees to include:
(a)   personnel in the State Foreign Trade Organizations;
(b)   attaches for Commerce and Agriculture who will serve in Hungary's
Embassies;
(c)   loan evaluation personnel from commercial banks participating in
the on-lending under the project; and
(d)   staff from the Ministries of Trade, Agriculture, and Industry and
others whose duties require an understanding of the management
and markets of agroprocessing and its feeder industries.
Training in Enterprise Management
6.       Three levels of training will be provided as follows:
(a)   Senior management: intensive executive training of short
duration, placing the focus on modern management methods,
marketing, strategic management, and entrepreneurial skills. A
total of four weeks is planned in two fortnightly sessions.
Improvement in foreign language skills will be included. The
first course will begin in January 1990 and about 200 managers
will receive the training over a three year period.
(b)   Middle management: a two-year part-time course, with one week
of lectures every month, and including extensive foreign language
training.  Course content will cover the full range of
post-graduate business management training, and international
trade and economics. This course is conceived as the preparation
of the agroprocessing leaders of the next decade and about 120
?ersons are expected to attend the training from January 1990-92.
(c)   Junior management: a six-month, part-time course, with one
week of training per month, and also including basic foreign
language training, in basic business and management skills. This
cours* would be for staff with between 2 and 4 years of practical
experience, entering supervisory and planning positions and about
120 persons are expected to receive the training.



- 97 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 5
7.       Practicaltrainin:  The middle and junior level management will be
receiving practical experience within the context of their day-to-day working
environment. Short duration study tours (2 weeks) will be airanged for
outstanding students. However, for junior management training, the concept of
practical management training should be expanded to include "trainee
managership" posts within the trainees' enterprises while participating in the
course. UHFI would take on the additional responsibility of supervising the
in-plant activities of the trainees, so that management tasks and case studies
can be conducted by the trainees as part of their day-to-day work.
Ttaiing in Marketing of AMroprowessed Products
8.       The project has identified the need for specific training of
marketing and sales personnel. While ideally these personnel should also
receive some general management training, the emphasis should be placed on the
practical aspects of marketing, and management should be provided as part of
the general business introduction training. Thus, this aspect of the training
program is less managerial or "executive" and more operational; the target
group would include, inter alia:
(a)   staff designated as marketing and sales personnel within the
enterprises;
(b)   staff of the State Foreign Marketing Organizations;
(c)   market research personnel (e.g. in such institutes as KOPINT);
(d)   commercial and agricultural attaches;
(e)   some of the commercial banks' loan evaluation staff who would
specialize in marketing and trade assessment; and
(f)   staff of the Ministry of Trade.
9.       The course content for detailed marketing training would last for 18
months and include in-depth treatment of marketing subjects in order to
develop an ability to apply the techniques in practice, and to make marketing
decision - as against providing a "management familiarity" under the
management training course. This would include developing, as an in'.egral part
of the marketing training, student's individual marketing case stddies through
practical a-;Iications of each topic within the work environmenc of each
trainee, under the super"iAon of :he UHFI staff.  Additional topics which
should be covered in depth would be:
(a)   advertising, and especially the management of services from
advertising agencies in Western Europe;
(b)   brand marketing development, and product image development;



- 98 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 5
(c)   new product market research, consumer testing and market
introduction;
(d)   the structure of the European food markets, and the management of
distribution and agency arrangements; and
(e)   management of sales through exhibitions.
10.      An essential part of this in-depth marketing training would be six
month internships for each trainee with marketing organizations in Europe.
Preferably this organization would be a major client of the trainee's
company. The organization of these internships could be conducted within the
framework of bi-lateral aid, the assistance given by the co-operative
organizations in Europe, and through the commercial relationships of the
participating enterprises.   However UHFI should play a major role in
promoting, coordinating and supervising this training, and should establish
co-operative arrangements with similar European training institutions to
facilitate such student exchanges. For the introductory marketing training,
the course content of the junior management would be appropriate, with an
in-depth approach to the training in techniques and practices, and with the
addition of practical case development within the work environment. As the
introductory training would be targeted at personnel not directly involved in
day-to-day marketing, the practical training should be designed to include
work periods within the marketing departments of exporting agroprocessing
enterprises.
C. Development of Management and Marketing Trainng Maapower
11.      UHFI plans to embark on a program for the improvement of its own
trainer resources. The program will include:
(a)   study pericds overseas for the Institute's staff;
(b)   research/study trips to overseas agroindustries for the
Institute's staff; and
(c)   hiring of part-time foreign lecturers and consultants.
A key to the success of this program will be the development of the
international cooperation between management training institutions in other
countries and the exchange of staff that this will allow. A program would be
established for staff training on specific management and research topics,
utilizing senior foreign experts, including business school professors,
international bankers, management consultants, senior international marketing
executives, etc. This would be held in conjunction with one-day executive
training seminars, for senior industry management, conducted by these experts.



ANNEX 8
_99_                       Page 5 of 5
D. Fore!= Language Training
12.      UHFI has placed empliasis in their planning of their new training
program on the improvement in foreign language skills for managerial
personnel; in support of this effort, modernization of their language
laboratory and foreign language training materials witl occur under the
project. The language resources will be allocated, primarily, to the training
of marketing personnel, with second priority given to the junior management
ranks. Improvement in foreigni language skills could be given to senior
management if additional resources or capacity is available. An adequate
level of proficiency in a foreign language would be a condition for graduation
from the marketing and junior management courses, and UNFI would aJopt a
policy of requiring those trainees who, on entry into the course, already have
proficiency in a foreign language to learn a second language during their
training period.
13.      Language priorities should be based on an assessment of the market
potential and priorities of each trainee's sponsoring company, and UHFI
should, ;:ogether with the sponsoring enterprise, ensure that there is a
reasonable balance of language skills among the marketing staff. Thus, it is
expected that UHFI would have the capability to train in four or five of the
major Eastern and Western European languages, and at least one of the
Scandinavian languages. Less usual but necessary requirements, such as
Japanese, Arabic and Chinese, as well as the Eastern and Western European
languages not offered at UHFI, would be covered through co-operative
arrangements with other Hungarian institutes of higher education, or through
bi-laterally supported language training programs administered in Hungary by
various Embassies.



ANNEX 9
-100-                 Page 1 of 4
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
ISSUES CONCERNING FEEDER INDUSTRIES
1.       There is no lack of feeder industries in Hungary as all the products
required can and are being produced. The issues concerning feeder industries
are: (a) their production schedules that do not take into acccunt their
customer's seasonal demands which is particularly crucial for the food
processing industry; (b) poor quality product; (c) suppliers have monopoly
positions in the market; and (d) suppliers often do not manufacture goods
which are needed by agroprocessing enterprises and manufacture product items
of wrong sizes, inappropriate designs, etc.
i.       While some of the causes of these problems are structural e.g. the
su p y of paper pulp from the USSR determines the quality of cardboard
ca- .:s, paper for labels, etc., others are managerial. For example, if the
monop3ly situation held by some supplier can be adjusted under the industrial
reform so that the food processing industry can make more effective demands on
the suppliers, the remainder of the problems will "solve themselves" under
competitive pressure. However, unreliability of supplies, which in return is
related to the feeder industries financial resources to purchase their raw
materials, needs also to be directly tackled by the restructuring of the
industrial sector.
3.       The agroprocessing industries are dependent on the feeder industries
for packaging materials and for chemical ingredients and additives, which
include the following: (a) cardboard and other laminated and coated paper
containers;(b) glass bottles (white, green and black); (c) metal cans and
metal lids for cans and bottles; (d) plastic containers; (e) plastic foil
wrapping (printed); (f) aluminium foils (printed); and (g) printed labels.
A. Packaging
4.       Two packaging problems are evident throughout the food processing
industry -- unreliable suppliers and poor quality. The former causes the
industry to hold very large inventories of packaging goods to ensure that
during their peak demand period there are no shortages. the quality problem
affects the positioning of Hungary's product on international markets, and
results in a lower price irrespective of the quality of the contents.
Industry managers are aware of these problems but have been unable in the past
to have any impect on the packaging manufacturer of goods. Primarily, this
has been because of the allocation process which, up to now, has dominated the
industrial sector in Hungary. The fact that most of the packaging suppliers
were operating under de facto monopoly has resulted in a lack of concern for
customer service or product quality.



ANNEX 9
-101-                   Page 2 of 4
5.       The restructuring of the industrial sector should, over time, correct
some of these imbalances, and the modernization of the sector may improve
quality provided that the agroprocessing sector sets the packaging standards
to which the suppliers will have to comply. While standard setting is
relatively simple, as international standards would be applicable, enforcement
will be a problem if the buyers have no alternative source of quality supply.
Currently when faced with unsatisfactory quality of local product, especially
labels or paper packaging, the food industries' customers send into Hungary
their own labels and packaging. While this import does not result in a real
out-flow of foreign exchange, it results in a loss of potential foreign
exchange earnings. This requirement, by no means exceptional, reduces
Hungary's price competitiveness, and adds to the administrative burden of
purchasing from Hungary. While this form of "cost-less" import is in effect
compettition to the local industry, its impact is not felt because it does not
directly affect the foreign exchange situation; nor does the local packaging
industry realize that they have lost any business.
B. Industrial Design
6.       Many of the container designs and sizes need to be brought in line
with current export market requirements. This requires retooling and
reorganization of some of the production lines. In paper-based packaging and
labeling for example, both the quality of the paper, the graphic design of the
label, and the quality of the printing need to be reviewed on a product by
product basis. In the case of this particular industry, the differing
labeling demands of every country, and possibly every major "own label"
customer, will result in reasonable printing runs. This would form a basis
for the establishment of new small-scale enterprises where quality control can
be assured.
7.       Similarly, professional graphics and industrial design services
should be encouraged, which would include computer-aided graphic design
tools. It should be noted that such design services for the food industry
would include container design (plastic and glass), and labels for plastic and
aluminium foil, direct printing onto plastic and glass, in addition to the
paper label and container printing. Such service enterprises should be
eligible for financing under future Bank industrial projects, as should the
modernization of the graphics and the printing industry. This, in turn, would
create the professional demand for quality product from the paper and
cardboard producers.
C. Can Manufacture
8.       The problems of quality and unreliable suppliers are evident in this
industry. The four largest fruits and vegetables processing enterprises
operate their own can manufacturing to overcome the problems of reliability of
supply, and, also supply cans to the smaller enterprises. However, this has
translated the large enterprises' inventory problems, for finished goods to a



ANNEX 9
-102-                   Page 3 of 4
supply and inventory problem for basic inputs, e.g. sheet metal, tin, etc.
The smaller enterprises face unreliable can supply, because the can
manufacturers assure their own production line requirements first before
providing cans to their outside customers. This "captive" -an manufacturing
can be characterized as being underinvesttd, fully depreciated and
inefficiently managed. Much of the supply reliability problem, even within
the constraints of t.he unreliability of sheet metal supplies, is one of
management of production scheduling. Nevertheless, the can manufacturing
operations provide a cash flow to the large enterprises while also provide
them with certainty of supply of their own can requirements.
9.       Even with most of the cans being manufactured under "captive"
conditions, quality remains a crucial issue. The industry has been willing to
accept sub-standard cans, either because they are unaware of international
standards, or because international sales have, up to now, not been adversely
affected. With the expected changes in the markets this will not be the case
for much longer. Given the shortage of investmert capital, and even more so
that of foreign exchange, the parent processing enterprises' priority will be
to invest in expansion and modernization of the fruit and vegetable processing
facilities; improvement of can manufacturing will, understandably, have a low
priority. Quality must be tackled through the rigorous application of
international standards, and the willingness of the agroprocessing industry to
reject below standard goods. This will not be possible while can produ:tion
is captive to the main fruit and vegetable processors.
10.      The can production divisions of the processing enterprises should be
"spun-off" into new enterprises, and provided with financing under the
Industrial Restructuring loan. Existing enterprises, however, will probably
resist the spin-off because of both the profits these divisions perceive and
the transitional period when specialize firms enter into the market with
modern can manufacturing equipment. The introduction of competition into can
manufacturing would increase management awareness for quality and service, and
should lead to new designs and new standards. These can production facilities
should not be sold off to existing producers as this would just further
enhance the concentration of the industry and would work against the objective
of the restructuring and modernization programs.
D. Glas Containers
11.      Inventory and quality problems are also serious in the glass
container industry. During the peak of the production season agroprocessing
and wine companies may be holding as much as 302 of their glass container
requirements in stock, while in the off-season stock piling amounts often to
more than 50% of the annual requirement. Glass containers are but one product
line within the glass manufacturing industry, which falls under the
supervision of the Ministry of Construction, illustrating therefore the
housing related priorities of this industry. However, glass container
manufacture is separate from other glass product manufacture. Quality



ANNEX 9
-103-                    Page 4 of 4
awareness is a serious issue, related to a need to update technologies,
designs and manufacturing procedures. To date, management has been unwilling
or unable to address quality problems, such as the unsatisfactory quality of
jam jars. Importers of Hungarian jams have pointed out to Hungarian jam
suppliers the inadequate product for over ten years, but the problem
continuous to persist.
12.      The glass container industry consists of four major units.  They
could, and should, be split into four competing enterprises. Each of these
units has seven, four, four and three furnaces, respectively, and all are
capable of producing the full range of bottles and jars. The two smallest --
Tokod and Salgotarjan -- are the only ones that can provide black glass (for
wine bottles). A recent joint venture with BRK of Yorkshire, U.K. with the
glass mold producer Paszto, should improve the quality of the molds and will
also, if requested, provide access to new container designs. The mold glass
container industry requires new machinery and a general redesign and
modernization.



-104-
ANNEX 10
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Tables
HUNGARY
ACROPROCESSING NOOERNIZATION PROJECT
SUIIY ACCOUNTS COST SUNNRY
IfT '000)                       fUSs '000)                       I Total
---------2------    ---------------------------     Foreign    asse
Ltrl       For.ign     Total        Local  Foreign   total      Exchange    Costs
83SzS33gzzx 3s33Zt2s3sf 8323*S333 22  3...3:33  :1:33333   33353:53g  :53:533
1. INVESTvAT COSTS
A. CIVIL NMOS3S J2.2U.7   112.242.5 1.044.526.2  19.814.0  2.385.5  22 199.5                            It       16
*  LOCAL EU141P T              831 873.9   214.987.9   U54.861.8  13.599.4  4,569.2  18. 168.t          25       13
C. INPRTED E4UlPIENT            82 182. 8 3.008. 04.2 3.890. 128.0  18. 759.8 63.930. 6  82,690.5       77       61
0. IMSTALLATION               246.074.0         27.1   249. 101.    5,293.6      0. 6   S.294.2          0        4
E. TUININS                             -    10.302.9   10.302.9                219.0     219.0         too        0
F. SALARIES AI  TRIPS                  -    15.9596    tf S959.6          -   339.2      339.2         100        0
. SERIVICES                     49S392.0   260S610.0   30. 002.0   1.049.7   53 S .8   6 588. 5         84        5
Total USELIUE COSTS             2.53. 306. 4 3. 622. I S.     315. 481. 5  58,51 .6 78.982.9 135. 499. 5    57      100
eical Contilg-ics$             2S3 619.1   32L.529.0   598.148.7   S.730.3  6.962.3  12.112.6            55        9
Price Contingels              453.930.7   111.645.1  565.575.8   9.647.5  2.372.8  12. 020.3            20        9
Total PROECT COSTS              3.476. 56. 9 4.02.349. 1 7.539.206.0  73. 894. 4 86. 33. 0 160. 232.4       54      Il8
~ry 19  tSU  21:42
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING NODERNIZATION MOJECT
S Ney Accomt by Project Caornt
IFT '000)
Physical
PROhESSED                                                                            Cont ingeiness
VIETA4tES                                       TECHhNICAL                           -------------
MINE AND UICE t0 FRUITS  TOBACCO    POULITR         FORESTRY    ASSISTANCE  MARKETING    Total         I  w    mnt
1. IIWESTIENI COSTS
A  CIVIL NMOS                    284.518.2    65.180.8          -    361.105.2     92.908.6   234.213.4           -  1.044.52L.2   9.9 103.257.7
*  LOCAL EIMIPRNFT                313.0e21.9    o S91.8         -    294. 110.2    188 529. 1    4.222.8          -    854,881.8  10.0  85,063.9
C. IUPOITE  EWIIENT               121,422.5   6. S,3.6          -  1. 460.559.9    850.213.8   192.978.2          -  3.890.728.0   9.9 384,91t.1
1. INST8LLATI41                    48,88.6    11541.2          -    164.424.5     24,230.8            -          -   249, 101.1  10.0  24,910.1
E. TUIKI-                                             -         -            -            -    10. 3  9           -      10,302.9   0.0       0.0
f. SALARIE  AN  TRIPS                           -          -                 -            -    IS.b S             -      15,959.8   0.0       0.0
6. SENICES                                                  -                              -           -  310.002.0    310,002.0   0.0        0.0
.............. ----------...... ........ . -----------... ---------  ----------.   ....... ......    ------  ---    ---------  _ 
Total INVSTRENT COSTS              1. 3J U11.2   194,813.4         - 2.28. 199.   1. IS3 882.3   457t676.8  310,002.0  6.375.481.5   9.4 598,148.7
Total BUSELIE COSTS                 1. 372. 96.2   794,853.4        - 2.28L  9 9   1, 153 882.3   457,6Tt. 8  310,002.0  6.375.481.5   9.4 598, 148. 7
Phe cal Contingencies              13. 28.6     79.485.3         -    228 620.0    115. 38. 2    37.368. 5         -   591 148.17  0.0         0.0
Price Conti tWpies                 165,411.4    42,160.1              232,U45.8     66,597.1    39,498.8   19,196.5    565.515.8   8.8  49.567.9
Total POECT COSTS                   1. 07     3 S  1 S 49181        - 2.1741,46.7  1,335.887.8   534,542.0  329 198.5  7 539 208.0   8.6 47.716.7
Ros8-s aggasou-                  sasa-a -.x ....s ......   ..... -nos a   gs ass es.-
Tla                                302,259.0   205,686.5         -   5t4,481.t   298 S14.5   135,929.5             -  1 506.951. 1   9.1 136.555.6
Foeelp EachaF                      811,044.6   56.8WI. 2            1. 408 548.3 J   4.049.3   202,757.4  289,118.2  4.062.349.1  8.3 337.128.1
........................................................................ .................................................................  
rt1y 9. IS  1:42



ANNEX 11
-105-
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
By end of                        Cumulative
IBRD           Semester               Semester         Cumulative       Disbursed
Fiscal Year          EndinR                  ---US$ Million---               ---X---
1989               Dec. 1988                  6.0               6.0              9
June 1989 (PYl)           2.0               8.0             11
1990               Dec. 1989                  5.0              13.0             19
June 1990 (PY2)           7.0              20.0             29
1991               Dec. 1990                  7.5              27.5            39
June 1991 (PY3)           8.0              35.5             51
1992               Dec. 1991                  8.0              43.5            62
June 1992 (PY4)           7.5              51.0             73
1993               Dec. 1992                  6.0              57.0            81
June 1993 (PY5)           5.0              62.0             89
1994               Dec. 1993                  5.0              67.0            96
June. 1994 (PY6)          3.0              70.0            100
Expected Date of Signing:           May 1988
Expected Date of Effectiveness: July 1988
Expected Completion Date:           June 1993
Expected Closing Date:              June 1994



ANNEX 12
-106-                 Page 1 of 3
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Business Plan at Enterprise Level
Enterprises seeking a subloan under the Agroprocessing Modernization
Project are expected to prepare a business plan along with a subloan
application. The business plan is to assist the enterprise to improve its
international competitiveness by increasing its value added, improving its
product quality, adjusting more closely to market requirements, reducing costs
of production and introducing direct export marketing and sales. As a result
of preparing and implementing the business plan, enterprises are expected to
be better positioned to export to convertible currency markets. The diagram
on the following page illustrates the business planning process. The main
elements of a typical business plan are outlined below.
1. Summary Statement. Summary of the main points of the business
plan. Identification of company objectives and strengths.
2. ComnV_y Alyis.  Historical data, products, markets,
customers, technology position, forward or backward integration,
cost comparisons, operational resources, company strengths and
weaknesses, basis of competition, key success factors, and
competitive position.
3. Industry Anaysi.  Definition and description of the industry,
industry size and growth rate, key growth factors, cyclicality,
seasonality, industry life cycle, financial operating
characteristics and trends, financial ratios, and financial
projections.
4. Market Analyss. Market scope and distribution, market
segmentation, market demand changes and trends, major customers
and concentration, sales tactics, distribution channels, pricing
trends, promotion and advertising, major competitors, market share
and sales.
5. Strategic Planng.  Long-term goals, key performance indicators,
milestone schedule, plan assumptions, red flags, company strengths
to exploit, company weaknesses to overcome, market opportunities
to exploit, risk analysis, business strategies, company thrusts
and business strategies, and company strategy plan.
6. Management Anaj3y!s. Functional organization, cost/profit
centers, responsibilities, functions of key personnel, manpower
milestones, automated systems, management information system.
7. Financid Alyss.  Projected income statement, projected balance
sheet, and projected cash flow.



ANNMI 12
Page 2 of 3
-107-
Busiws o    8Plaing PgoF eas
IndstnyryMarket
Analysis              Analysis
Manag.ment
Analysis
Monitoring of
Results



ANNEX 12
-108-                     Page 3 of 3
The subloan application would focus on the project to be developed
with the subloan funds, and would include the following sections:
1. Summary Statement. Cover sheet, highlights of the project,
amount of loan requested, repayment schedule, and security.
2. Project Description. Project objectives and purposes, detailed
aescription, and implementation schedule, and cost-benefit summary.
3. Market FeasibDity. Project's relationship to the product/market
strategy of the company; effect on competitiveness in convertible
currency, CMEA, and domestic markets; effect on the
competitiveness of main product lines; effect on costs for new
products, and comparison of these costs with prices in
international markets; estimates of increases in market share by
markets and product lines.
4. TechnicalFeasibity.  Project's effect on the company's
technological capability and efficiency; technology of existing
and proposed product-mix; present production facilities; areas for
upgrading, replacement and improvement; improvement of plant
layout, transportation and receiving of live animals or produce;
material balance; utilization of by-products; quality control and
testing facilities; and needed research and development in food
technology, new products, and mechanical processing.
5. Management Feasibility. Improvements in management to be
introduced with the project; improvements in automated systems to
be introduced with the project including for example, accounting
systems and inventory control systems.
6. Financia Feasib Uty. Proposed financing plan for the project;
estimates of capital costs; financial forecasts with and without
the project; and sensitivity analysis.



-109-                                    ANNEX  13
-age l-of 3
HUNGARY - ACROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Commercial:.and Credit Bank
Summary of Projected Financial Statements
RATIOS OF PROFITABILITY                                                     IS       1989     1990       1
-. -. --- ---    -..... -- - - -- - - -- - -                               ....        _......__..._
(AS PERCENTAGE OF AVERAGE ASSETS)                                        ISO       162     16       193
PROfIT IEfORE TAX, RISK FIUD MND PROY                       3.62     1.72      4.41     5.32
:                 *ROFIT EFORE  AXES AN  RISK FUND                            2.5t     2.6t      3.31     4.12
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES                                         1.81      1.9t     2.41     3.1t
:                NET PKOFIT                                                   0.22     0.22     0.5      0.89
FINANCIAL INCOME                                            9..2     9.A      !0.0O    10.22
|   *            FINANCIAL EIPENSES                                           6.11     3.91     !.82      5.52
EARNINI SPREAD                                              3.n      1.92      4.22     4.61
*   (AS PERCENTAGE OF AVERAGE L4O PORTFOL1I)                                 105      123       I3N      153
1NTEREST INCONE                                            !2.92    12.41    12.2?    12.11
tNTEREST EXPENSE                                            8.01     ?.S2     7.:?      6.72
INTEREST SPREAD                                             4.n      4.92     5.02      5.4t
IAS PERCENTABE OF AVERAGE E2UITY)                                          9        tl       14       19
PROFIT BEFORE TAX, RIS: FUND AND ORGY                      58.21   52.;2    53.4?    55.22
PROFtT 8EFOE.9 TAXES ANJ RISK FUND                         40.2?    36.92      9.81    43.41
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES                                        26.52    26.32    29.1?    32.4t
NET ROFIT                                                   2.71     3.32      5.6?     8.12
lA'!OS Of LIQUIDITY
CURRENT RATIO                                              0.92     C.97     0.95      1.03
TOTAL DEPOSITS I TOTAL LCAN!                               0.50     0.53     0.54     P.5S
TOTAL REFINANCI'I I TOTAL LOANS                            0.67     0.63      ).S9    0.54
S.T. DEPOSITS f CASN . S.T. LOANS                          1.20     1.13      1.03     O.94
L.T. DEPOSITS I L.T. LOANS                                 0.5J     0.65     0..      0.94
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RAtIO                                0.90     0.97     0.94      1.0;
INTEREST COVERAGE RATIO                                    0.21     0.20     0.22     0.24
S.T. REFINANCING I SUOSCRIIED CAPITAL                      6.70     6.47     6.3:      6.06
RATIOS OF STRUCTURE
.......... ................_.__...... 
TOTAL DEOtT I YER-ENS EQUITY                              14.02    :2.19    10.43      9.79
L.T. DEBT/ YEAR-END EQUITY                                 2.37     2.30     2.14      1.93
ASSETS I YEAR-EN  EQUITY                                  11.02    13.19    11.43      9.1T
PROVISIONS I YEAR-EN  PCTFOLO                              0.01     0.02     0.02      0.03
RAtIOS OF EFFICIENCY
ADINISTRATIVE EXPENSES I TOTAL ASSEtS                      0.01     0.01     0.01      0.01
ADNINISTRATIVE EXPENSES I TOTAL EXPENSES                   0.12     0.12     0.12      0.12
DISBURSEMENTS I AVEAgW CURN  URR1LITIES                    ).16     0.20     0.24      0.27



-110-                                    ANNE    13
Page 2 of 3
RUNGARY - AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Di^"art Crtedit and Drnlo,mat Bank
Sumr  of Projected Flmmnclal Statemnts
RATIOS OF PRFITABIL:TY                                                     1988      19P      19f      199:
(AS PEREAGE OF AVEAGE AzSETS)                                             67       7        02        Es
PRWOIT BEFORE TAX, RIS1  FUlS AND POY                       4.02     4.?l    S. 1'    6.1?
MPFI' WFORE TAXES AND RISK FUD                             7.n       m.l      3.8?      4.7?
PROFIT SEFOAE TAXES                                         1.92     2.1?     2.82      3.M?
NET PROFIT                                                  0.22     0.2Y     0.5?      0.9?
FINc:AL INCOME                                              V.4Z     9.6?     7S?%   1t.0?
FINANCIAL EIPENSES                                          !.41     t.n      S.l.1     5.07
E IIE SPREAD                                               4;01      4.31     i.7?      5.12
(AS  ERCE4NE Of AVERAGE LOAN P2RWOL10)                                    89       57       64        ?0
ITR T INCOIE                                               l2..    it.e2    11.82    11.9
INTEREST EXPENSE                                            6.91     6.6?     6.3X      6.'2
MTEREST SPUEAD                                              5.11     5.2?     5.4%      7.12
(AS PERCBITASE OF AVERAE EQUITY)                                           St       6        8        IC
PRWIT tEfORE TAX, Ris  FUIID AnD aRov Y54.St    48.12    47.9?    52.4
PRF1T IT EFOE TAIES AND RISK FUND                          3..4Z 4   3.26   3r.6b    41.0?
PROFIT IlF RE TAXES                                        26.5?    23.9?    26.C2    30.5%
iET PROFIT                                                  2.52     :.Sz     8. 9     7.4:
RATIOS WF LIQUID!TY
CUIE   RATIC                                              0.76      0.80    C.84      09?1
TOTAL DEPOITS I TOTAL LEANS                               0.88      0.84     0.8'    0.84
TOTAL REFINWACIND / TOTAL LOAS               ,            0.55      0.52     0.50     0.46
S.T. ESITS I CASH . S.T. LOGPS                             1.31     1.23     :.16     1.07
L.T.  OWSiTS I L.T. (.ANS                                 C.6?      0.69     0.74     0.79
DOT SERVICE COVA   RATIH                                   0.77     0.8!     0.89     0.95
:TEREST COVERASE RAMT                                     3.        0.:9     0.22     0.24
S.T. UlAlNC:lt16 ISUMCR'BED CAPITAL                        1.90     1.:2     1.0Q      .71
RATIOS  F 5TUtE
TOTAL MET i YEAR-END EQU'TY                               '2.57     8.74     6.17     7.lE
L.T. DE1 YEIR-ED EQUITY                                   .51      2.81     2.94     2.69
ASSTS ' EAR-END   UITY                                     .        9.74     9.7       M.IE
PRCVIS!O=S I YEAR-ED PORTOSLIC                            0.02      w.03     0.03     O.Q4
RATIOS OF EFFICIEICY
AOIINISTRATIVE EXPENSES / TOTAL ASSETS                    0.0:      0.0t     0.01     0.0.
ADNIkISTRATIVE EPns   I TCTAL  Pn      S                  0.14      0.14     0.14     0.13
VISURSE10S iI AVA6E CORN  LIABILITIES                i    0.27      0.45     0.61     0.7e



ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 3
HUNGARY - AGROPROCESSING M)DERNIZATION PROJECT
Hungarian Credit Bank
Suary of Projected Financial State' taes
-RATIOS OF FROFITABILITY                                                       GB6D    199      1:990     1I91
IRS PERCENTA6E OF AVERA6E ASSETE,                                         197      197       226      252
PROF-IT BEFORE TAX, R.SK FUND AND PROV                       4.02     4.71     4.92      5.6%
PROFIT BEFCRE TAXE  ANO RISK FUND                            2.82     3.'1     3.61      4.3Z
.ROFIT BEFORE TAXES                                          2.02     2.52     2.7n      3.22
RET PROFIT                                                   0.22     0.52     0.52      ).21
FINANCIAL INCNE.                                            10.02    IC.22    10.32    10.5Z
FINANCIAL EMPUNSES                                           7.12     6.92     6.8l      6.9Z
EARNING SPREAD                                               2.92     3.42     3.52      3.7?
(AS PERCENTPAE OF AVERAGE LOA  PORTFUO14                                  140      156       !77      204
INTEREST INCOIE                                             12.6t    12.42    12.12    11.92
INtEREST EXPENSE                                             9.02     e. 4     8.1s      7.92
INTEREST SPREAD                                              3.S2     4.02     4.01      4.0!
(AS PERCENTAGE OF AVERAGE EOUIY)                                            8        14       19       25
PROFIT BEFORE TAlI RISK FN  AMD PROY                        96.52    66.42    55.32    53.52
PROFIT BEFORE TAKES AND RISK FUND                           60.31    49.22    41.02    41.52
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES                                         43.02    35.92    33.02    30.82
MET PROFIT                                                   4.91     6.72    '.62       7.3%
RATIOS OF LI6UID!TY
CURRENT RATM                                                0.?3     0.93    0,.9       I. 1
TOTAL DPOSITS ! TOtAL LOANS                                 0.33     0.35     0.32      0.32
TOTAL REFINANCING I TOTAL LOANS                             0.'4     0.71     0.0    0.69
S.T. DEPOSITS l CASH + S.T. LCANS                           1.07     1.05     1.01      0.96
L.T. DEPaSITS I L.T. LOANS                                  0.81     0.90     0.77      0.8'
DEBT SERVICE COV'ERAGE RATIO                                0.98     0.99     1.'0      1.05
INTEREST CMVERAME RATIO                                    0.'5      0.27     0.28     0.28
s.T. REFINANCING / SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL                       6.74     6.67     5.57      S.53
RATIOS OF STRtCTURE
TOTAL DEBT I YEAR-EN  EI0JITY                              14.41    12.26     9.01      3.30
L.T. DEBT/ VEAR-END EQUITY                                  3.93     3.62     2.54      2.3!
ASSETS I YEAR-ElD EMIITY                                  '1.41    13.26    10.0       9.30
?ROVISIONS I YEAR-EM  PORTFOLIO                             0.01     0.02     0.03      0.03
RATIOS O EFFICIEYCY
ADNINISTPATIVE EXPENSES   TOTAL ASSETS                      0.01     0.01     C.01      0.01
AUINISTRATIVE EXPENSES I TOTAL EXPENSES                     0.06     0.06     0.07      0.07
DIMSMURSENITS / AVERAE CURRENT LIADILITIES                  0.2t     0. 3     0.42      C.47



- 112 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 3
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
ACTIVE MARKETING COMPONENT
A. B
1.       During the preparation of the project, MEM contracted Prognos of
Switzerland, and KOPINT and ERFATERV of Hungary to #_arry out product and
country-specific market studies for the project products. These studies were
finalized in March of 1987 and formed the basis of a three-day workshop in
Budapest where 21 foreign experts in marketing and technology discussed their
know-how in three areas with about 170 senior managers from large
agroprocessing enterprises. The market studies and the workshop pointed to
the weak state of marketing in Hungary, and the benefits that could be
expected from improvements in the "software" aspects of marketing.
2.       Prior to 1980, virtually all export sales were executed by monolithic
trusts, which held total control of all export sales as well as all investment
decisions of individual enterprises. Since that time, all but the grain and
dairy trust have been dismantled and replaced by foreign trading organizations
(FTOs). The operational details of these organizations differ but, all except
those marketing their own product, act as a marketing agent and not principal
seller of the goods. In all subsectors, the natural orientation of FTOs is
towards "trading" rather than marketing, which prevents the agroprocessing
enterprise from interacting with the final buyer of the goods. In general,
Hungarian producers lack an understanding of the international market place,
the needs of the buyers, and, therefore, are in a disadvantageous position to
market effectively overseas.
B. Creating Marketig Expertise Within Enterprises
3.       As Hungary shifts its sights to the highly competitive convertible
currency markets, high priority must be given to measures that would raise the
capability of the enterprises to market their own products. Under the
project, several actions will be carried out to assist enterprises in
achieving a capability to engage in direct export marketing. These actions
are the following:
(a) Each enterprise applying for a subloan will be required to
prepare a market strategy as part of an overall business plan.
The strategy will identify objectives, means and resources
required in each of the major, convertible currency markets which
the enterprise intends to supply; and
(b) The enterprise would open a marketing unit within its
organization with specific job descriptions.



- 113 -
XANNX 14
Page 2 of 3
4.       In any case, it is reasonable to conjecture that many sub-borrowers
will continue to utilize the FTOs to a large extent, at least during the early
stages of the project, since their personnel are the only ones with some
experience in international sales. This raises the question whether these
organizations can be converted to provide more responsive services to the
enterprises. FTOs have generally shown an unwillingness to exploit or
maximize opportunities or stand in the forefront *n advancing improved quality
standards from their client suppliers. Operating within the restrictive
limitations of a planned and controlled economy, the FTO0 evolved into passive
merchandisers of Hungarian goods.
5.       The marketing unit at the enterprise level should logically consist
of specialized staff for both foreign and domestic sales. The marketing
function needs to be elevated to a higher level of recognition and
responsibility within the enterprises in order that enterprises may better
cope with changing market conditions and opportunities. The marketing unit
would be responsible for the following principal activities:
(a) Define a market strategy including the specific market area to
be targeted and the characteristics of the potential customers
within that market;
(b) Organize distribution network for their products;
(c) Carry out regular market demand analysis on changes in the
markets and review the trends for new and improved products;
(d) Define methods to be used by the sales staff to sell the company
product including the use of agents, foreign trading companies,
wholesalers and imports and maintain correspondence,
communication and personal contact with sales agents, clients,
importers, wholesalers, retail chain outlets - including
responsibility for price and delivery quotations, and other
terms of contract;
(e) Collect information on individual markets and set up a database
for file for background information in establishing guidance for
marketing strategies;
(f) Develop an advertising program either through its own staff,
hired agency or in cooperation with other enterprises;
(g) Track the performance of major competitors regarding sales
volume, growth rate, degree of integration, strengths and
weaknesses and the competitors' market share; and
(h) Update on an ongoing basis the skills of marketing and sales
personnel in modern marketing methods.



- 114 -
ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 3
C. Deve1oDmx Export Trade Promotion Services
6.       To some extent, promotional activities overseas are carried out today
by the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce, the Foreign Trade Department of the
Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Trade throu3h commercial attaches in
major overseas markets, HUNGEXPO, and the FTOs themselves.  In addition,
market information is available from KOPINT and stati-- cal information from
STAGFK, AKI, and other sources within Hungary.
7.       During negotiations, the Ministry of Trade confirmed to the Bank that
it would carry out a program of export trade promotion and marketing. This
action program would form part of the active marketing component of the
project and would include the following activities:
(a) assist the export trade promotion and marketing efforts of the
enterprises, will take part in collecting and channeling
information concerning the market opportunities of agroprocessed
products and will ensure that appropriate facilities, services
and institutions would be available for enterprises;
(b) ensure that the commercial representations functioning within
the Hungarian embassies will continue to contribute to the
promotinn of Hungarian agroprocessed products on the relevant
markets. Special attention will be given by the MT to make it a
high priority task to its commercial representations abroad to
contribute export trade promotion and marketing of new
agroprocessed products to be produced under the Project;
(c) initiate marketing campaigns, similar to the "Gutes aus Ungarn",
on potential markets of agroprocesAed products and will
supplement the efforts of the enterprises; and
(d) facilitate and coordinate the practice of bringing foreign
businessmen to Hungary with the assistance of the interested
enterprises and the Hungarian Chamber of Economics.
8.       The MT has selected Hungexpo from the existing enterprises to
establish an Agromarketing Office within Hungexpo's organization under the
supervision of the MT to assist in carrying out the above-mentioned program.
The program will be supervised, monitored and coordinated by the MT and will
be financed from the local resources available to the MT for this program.



ANNEX 15
-115-                     Page 1 of 5
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Specific Product-Market Export Prospects
Table 1: MARKET OPPORTUNITIES FOR PROCESSED HORTICULTURAL PRODUCTS
3 = real market demand exists that can be exploited in the short
term
2 = market demand for Hungarian product can, through adequate
marketing strategy, be developed in the medium term
I = no immediate market prospect, longterm prospects exit but
demands special efforts
O = no prospects
- = not examined
Canned      Deep frozen         Fruit &
&     --------------------  Vegetable  Condiment
Country    bottled  Vegetables  Fruits    Powders(*)  Paprika
E.E.C.
Belgium/Lux    0           2           2          1           2
Denmark        0           2           2          0           2
France         0           2           3          2           2
F.R.Germany    2           2           3          2           3
Greece         -           -           -          -           -
Ireland        -           -           -          -
Italy          0           2           1          0           1
Netherlands    0           2           2          2           3
Spain           2          2           1          O           0
U. Kingdom      2          3           2          2           2
Other W.Europe
Austria         1          2           2          0           3
Portugal       2           2           1          0           1
Switzerland    1           2           2          0           3
Scandinavia
Finland         2          0           0          0           2
Norway          2          2           2          3           2
Sweden          2          3           3          1           2
N.America
USA             2          1           2          0           3
Canada          1          2           2          3           3
Far East
Australia      0           0           0          0           2
Japan           2          2           1          3           3
M. East
Algeria        0           1           1          0           3
Kuwait          2          2           1          2           0
S. Arabia       2          2           1          2           0
U.A.Emirates   2           1           1          2           0
Source: KOPINT, Processed Horticulture and Forestry Products, Su ary and
Conclusions (Budapest, 1987)
*) including dried spices, freeze dried (dehydrated) vegetable flakes,
n-A f-rit iuie-e pnwders



ANNEX 15
-116-                    Page 2 of 5
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Specific Product-Market Export Prospects
Table 2: MARKET OPPORTUNITIES FOR FRUIT JUICES
3 -  High sales prospects
2 =   Medium sales prospects
1 =   Low sales prospects
O =   No sales prospects
- =   market not examined
Fruit Preferences
Single            Fruit  Flavored
Country    C02  Strength Nectar  Juice  Syrup    Apricot Grape Apple Cherry Plum
E.E.C.
Belgium/Lux.   0      0       0        0      0
Denmark        0      0       0        0      0
France         0      0       0        0      0
F.R.Germany    0      3       2        2      2          2      1      1     2      1
Greece         0      0       0        0      0
Ireland        -      -       -        -      -
Italy          0      0       0        0      0
Netherlands    0      0       0        0      0
Spain          -      -       -        -      -
U.Kingdom      0      0       0        0      0
Other W. EuroDe
Austria        0      0       0        0      0
Switzerland    1      3       1        2      2          2      2      2     1      1
Scandanavia
Finland        0      0       0        0      0
Norway         0      0       0        0      0
Sweden         0      3       1        1      2          2      2      2     2      2
N. America
USA            0      2       2        2      3          2      1      2     2      1
Canada         0      3       2        1      2          3      2      2     3      2
Far East
Australia      0      0       0        0      0
Japan          1      1       2        2      1          2      2      2     2      2
Middle East
Kuvait         0      2       2        1      1          2      2      3     2      -
S. Arabia      0      1       2        2      2          2      2      2     2      1
U.A.Emirate.    0      0       0        0      0          0      0      0     0      0
Source:PROGNOS, Analysis of Forecast of Sales Outlets for Hungarian Poultry, Wine
and Softdrinks, Part V, Chapter 3.



ANNEX 15
-117-                              Page 3 of 5
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Specific Product-Market Export Prospects
Table 3: MARKET OPPORTUNITIES FOR POULTRY
3 - High sales prospects
2 *  Medium sales prospects
1 = Low sales prospects
X * No sales prospects
-  market not examined
Chicken         Turkey           cu'-s            Geese
_ _ ____ <+ ______-                      ------ -----   Goose
Whole   Parts   Whole   Parts   Whicle   Parts   Whole   Parts    Liver
rpO --  ---__-  ------ ___ ---  -_____
Country   Sales Fr. Fz. Fr. Fz. Fr. Fz. Fr. Fz. Fr. Fz. Fr. Fz. Fr. Fz. Fr. Fz. Fr. Pres.
E.E.C.
Belgium/Lux.         1   1   1   1   1   2   3   3   3   2   3   2   1   1   1   2   3    2
Denmark       X
France              1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1   3    1
F.R.Germany         3   1   3   3   1   2   3   3   1   1   2   1   2   1   2   1   1    2
Greece        X
Ireland       -
Italy               3   1   2   1   1   2   3   3   2   1   3   2   1   1   1   1   2    l
Netherlands         1   1   1   1   1   2   3   3   1   2   2   1   1   1   1   1   1    2
Spain         X
U. Kingdom    -
Other W. Europe
Austria             3   1   2   2   1   1   3   3   2   1   3   1   2   1   2   2   1    2
Switzerland         3   1   3   2   1   1   3   3   2   1   3   1   2   1   2   1   2    3
Scandanavia
Finland       X
Norway        X
Sweden        X
Other OECD
USA           X
Canada        X
Japan                                                                                        2
Middle East
Egypt                    2
Iran                     3
Iraq                    2
Kuwait                   2
S. Arabia                1
U.A.Emirates             2
Source:PROGNOS, Analysis of Forecast of Sales Outlets for Hungarian Poultry, Wine and
Softdrinks, Part V, Chapter 1.



ANNEX 15
-118-                    Page 4 of 5
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Specific Product-Market Export Prospects
Table 4: MARKET OPPORTUNITIES FOR WINE
3 = High sales prospects
2 = Medium sales prospects
1 a Low sales prospects
X = No sales prospects
- = market not examined
No market -- Bottles -- Desert ---- Bulk -----
Country prospects Red Rose White wine Red Rose White
E.E.C.
Belgium/Lux.           3         1     2       1         1
Denmark                1                       3    1    2
France         X
F.R.Germany            2    1    2      1      3    1    2
Greece         X
Ireland        -
Italy          X
Netherlands            3         1      1      3    1    2
Spain          X
U. Kingdom             1         1      1      1    1    2
Other W. Europe
Austria                2    1    1             1         1
Switzerland            1                       2
Scandanavia
Finland                1                       3    1    2
Norway                                         2         1
Sweden                                         2
N. America
USA                              1             1         1
Canada                                         2         1
Far East
Australia      X
Japan                  1                       1
China          X
Singapore              1    1    1
Taiwan         X
Hong Kong              1    1    1
Source:PROGNOS, Analysis and Forecasts of sales Outlets
for Hungarian Poultry, Wine and Softdrinks, Part V,
Chapter 2.



ANNEX 15
-119-                        Page 5 of 5
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Specific Product-Market Export Prospects
Table 5: MARKET OPPORTUNITIES FOR WOOD PRODUCTS
I = primary export target country
2 = secondary export target country
Pulpwood    Logs:        Sawn wood                              Edible
Fibre-wood Broadleaf                                   Wood      Forest
Country    wood chips hardwoods Broadleaf Coniferous Parquets Briquettes Products
Socialist Bloc
Czechoslovakia                                                          2
Soviet Union                                        1
Yugoslavia          1                                                   1
E.E.C.
Belgium/Lux.                             1                              1          2
Denmark
France                                                                             2
F.R.Germany                    1         1                     1        1          1
Greece                                   1                                         2
Ireland
Italy               1          1         1                     1                   2
Netherlands                                                                        2
Spain
United Kingdom
Other W.Europe
Austria             1          1         2                              1          1
Portugal
Switzerland                                                             1          1
Scandanavia
Finland                                                                            2
Norway                                                                             2
Sweden              2                    1                                         2
M.East
Turkey                                                                  2
Source: KOPINT/ERFATERV, Forest and Wood Products, Summary and Conclusions
(Budapest, 1987)



-120-.
ANNEX 16
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Selected Doouments Available in the Project File
A. Selected Re_orts and Studies on the Agroprocessing Sector
A.1   Livestock Efficiency Study.  Agricultural Economics Research
Institute, (AKI), Budapest, April 1987.
D. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B.1   Export Market Studies on Poultry, Wine and Fruit Juices.
PROGNOS, Bern, Switzerland, March 1987.
5.2   Export Market Studies on Fruits and Vegetables and Wood
Products. KOP1NT and ERFATERV, Budapest, February 1987.
3.3   Hungarian Agroprocessing Modernization Project:  Marketing and
Trade. Produce Studies. Newbury, England, April 1987.
B.l   Hungary. The Agroprocessing and Wood-Working Industries:
Structure, Productivity and Competitiveness.  2 vols.
B. Mierau, April 1987.
5.5   Hungary, Forestry Component, FAO/WB Cooperative Program,
Investment Center, Rome, March 1986.
B.6   Fifteen Feasibility Reports of Potential Project
Beneficiaries. Industrial Enterprises with technical
assistance from AGROBER, February 1987.
3.7 Major Factors Influencing the Economic Management of the
Poultry Industry in 1980s. Budapest, STAGEK, October 1987.
3.8   Guidelines for Preparation of Business Plans.  Budapest,
Szenzor Consulting Co., September 1987.
3.9   Subsector Development Strategies in Poultry, Wine, Fruits and
Vegetables and Fruit Juices. Szenzor Consulting Co., assisted
by Arthur D. Little, December 1987.



IBRD 19989
HUNGARY
AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Location of Potential Project Enterprises                                                                                                            ,       ,_          R           -I
/. tr S.-gh         Q *h             ~ ,.Mo    - orsmy
ji  Poultry slou9hterhouM9; ctcrwoad                                        CZ EC HOSLOVAK IA                                                       IT                                  norlruir,_                 U. S. S. R.
*Fwl1 ond V.ww.bl Prc-sng Iq             Ra  I clroad rs                                                                                                                                                   e-/?
Wine   kgCanals                                     *                                                                           Wne Aol K ERvS  0   20 0 40   SO r0    0 
[3od  rcr4n  Nrat.onal capritl @ v,,,     - K3f 
-   Megye (county) boundaJries                                                                                               /r                                             r      o.
5 ._ ~~~~~~International boundaries ,  }  _ -fTo' J/i_>_r_ 
200_-400500                                                                             4f'             0            J                                     TALY       \      GREE  TE$'1I         TURKEY
DrEcMbER 1937



POLAND       t                                                                        HUNGARY
CZECHOSLOVALOVAKIA-                              U.S.5. R               AGROPROCESSING MODERNIZATION PROJECT
INr >                                A v > LOCATION OF RAW MATERIAL SUPPLY
AUSTRIA                             /                                                                             County Boundaries
*BUDAPEST    /
HUNGARY                                                                                           International Boundaries
ROMANIA '    '                                                     National Capital
S                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 40 S0 120
S                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
YUGOSLAVIA                                                                                                RS
WBULGARIA                                                               .n=rno'an=  = '.
I,7.  i'r    1'                                  il.r                                    I      E'.        If-          i,          il-         22'
CORN SHARE OF ARABLE LAND (%)                                       U.S.S.R.    VEGETABLES SHARE OF ARABLE LAND (%)                                    U.S.S.R.
48.                                            Za,nB}Md    SeT,b.CZCHOSLOAK4A. b..- -M,_     CZECHOSLOVAKIA
AUSTRIAAUTI
SW-                                                                                   S*-
P", B-f GM A N IA                                                                                          2,
\i   ~~~~~~  -~~~~tJ   '           I    1 20-25  46  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4c7^nc                         >I        . 2.0 7
ROMANIA                                                                    ROMANIAA  p
48.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~zf
_*1 \\           2630                          '2.1-30
YUGOSLAVIA                                            t 35                         YUGOSLAVIA                                              - 4.0
I?         TY           ir                      '22 18- '7' 2?                                                                      '            22'
,?r        I8          if.          X°          21i                               ir          iii         I'f          i0          il'         i2
WHEAT SHARE OF ARABLE LAND (%)               ,        "          5                    VINEYARDS SHARE OF LAND                                           uS
-~ U TS.R*PLANTED TO CROPS (%)
G,,6r Ss<- AUS0cTRIA_*>@t Md..
_S\,                        BE    r                    cer c    ` t] 32-5 _a<do*    .-.
5       \, /         X-                                             8.      1     2c-3 > '_ ' / CZECKOSLOVA..............IARM  9**  Alj  ROMANIA
48.    .-.*CYUCOSLOAVIA                                                    *        _       -                    cbvc5Ta5   YGSLVA................  bodc, S.0A,
06.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
2A-303140
Ill         2~~~~~~ ~~1-3542-.
YUGOSLAVIA                                           abn-n35                       YUGOSLAVIA                            k               beea5
1r         iz           Is,          2U                      22                    1r                       19          28          5.           22
ir          18-         if           29         21'          2'f                   17          IS'          i9'         21          21i         22
SUNFLOWER SHARE OF ARABLE LAND (%)                                                               . ' \U.S.S.R.R.  FOREST SHARE OF ALL LAND (%)
Y               UGCZECHOSLOVAKIA                     OT55    c         -                           CZECHOSLOVAKIA
AUSTRIA                                                                            AT 1                                                                         /r
V.5  VsapeAe ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~V
R OMAN IAROAI
Sun.nY                h&s.                     K.                                                         iA
used. 4
E24-6                                tw"                                               02fO
-             ~~~~~~~~~~~YUGOSLAVIA                                 2.?1                           YUJGOSLAVIA                                          2
ir          18.         i?,         228.                                                        s,1-                     v



