Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-4336-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$29.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR
A PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
May 29, 1986
This document hss a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officil duties. Its contents msy not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                   -             Brazilian Cruzado (Cz5)
US$1.00                                       Cz$13.80 (March 31, 1986)
CRS I                                         US$ 0.0725 (Harch 31, 1986)
Government of Brazil Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Clossary of Abbreviations
CENDEC                          Centro de Treinamento para o Desenvolvimento
Economico
(Development Training Center)
CISET                           Secretaria de Control Interno Setorial
(Sector Internal Control Secretariat)
CNRH                            Centro Nacional de Recursos Humanos
(National Huan Resource Center)
CPF                             Comssao de Programacao Financiera
(Financial Programing Commission)
CPS                             Centro de Planejamento Setorial
(Sector Planning Center)
ELETROBRAS                      Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras, S.A.
(Federal Electricity HoloM'ng Company)
FINSOCIAL                       Fundo de Investimento Soci-al
(Social Investment Fund)
FGV                             Fundacso Cetulio Vargas
IBGE                            Fundacao Inatituto Brasileiro de Geografia e
Estatistica
(Brazilian Institute of Geography and
Statistics)
INPES                           Instituto de Pesquisas
(National Research Institute)
IPEA                            Instituto de Planejamento Econonico e Social
(Institute for Economic and Social Planning)
IPLAN                           Instituto de Planejamento
(National Planning Institute)
INOR                            Instituto de Programacao e Orcamento
(Programming and Budget Inatitute)
SECIN                           Secretaria de Control Interno
(Secretariat for Internal Control)
SEMOR                           Secrecaria de Modernizacao e Reforms
Administ rativa
(Secretariat for Administrative Reform)
SEPLAN                          Secretaria de Planejamento
(Planning Ministry)
SEST                            Secretaria de Control de Eapresas Estatais
(Secretariat for State Enterprises)
SOF                             Secretaria de Orcanento e Financas
(Budget and Finance Secretariat)
SPU                             Servico do Patrimonio da Uniso
(Government Assets Administration)
STN                             Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional
(National Treasury Secretariat)
TCU                             Tribunal de Contas da Uniao
(Federal Tribunal of Accounts)
UG                              Unidade Gerador
(Budget Management Unit)
UNDP                            United Nations Development Programe



FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
PUBLIC SECTOR PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Federative Republic of Brazil.
Amount:              US$29.0 million equivalent.
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
with interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Executing Agencies
and Departments:   Ministry of Planning (SEPLAN).
Ministry of Finance.
Project
ObJectives:        To strengthen Brazil's public sector Planning and
Management capabilities at the Federal Government
level, in the areas of information, research,
planning, budgeting, program implementation and
operational control, including the supervision of
state enterprises, which are the responsibility of the
Ministry of Planning (SEPLAN) and the Ministry of
Finance.
Project
Description:       The proposed project consists of:
(a)  an integrated program designed to strengthen
management capabilities of the SEPLAN system,
including: (i) measures to develop sector and
project analysis, multi-year investment planning
and social program monitoring; (ii) improved
budget planning; (iii) development training; (iv)
priority economic and social research; (v)
improved economic and social information systems;
and (vi) SEPLAN support for wider administrative
reform;
(b)  a major state enterprise component to:  (i)
institute performance evaluation systems; and
(ii) develop 30 enterprise rehabilitation
programs; and
(c)  support for the establishment and operation, by
the new National Treasury Secretariat of the
Ministry of Finance, of an integrated budget
information and control system; improved systems
of Government assets administration; and training
for Federal, State and municipal auditors,
including those responsible for the auditing
standards for Federal Government projects
supported by the Bank.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of thur oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclod without World Bank authoriztion.



_ii -
Risks:               The relatively large size of the proposed project, and
the number of components and consultants involved,
entail some risk of delay or incomplete implementation
within the planned program. Very thorough government
project preparation; the concentration of project
activities within areas of functional responsibility
of the two key economics ministries; and the degree of
commitment of the Government and project managers to
more effective management of public sector resources,
through the full implementation of the project,
should minimize the risks.



- iii -
Estimated Cost:
Foreign      Local      Total
- --(US$ mil-lions) 
1. Strengthening the Planning
and Budgeting Systems
1.1 SOF-Budget Office                    0.1         1.3        1.4
1.2 IPLAN-National Planning
Institute                           0.4        2.0         2.4
1.3 INPES-National Research
Institute                           0.2        1.8         2.0
Subtotal                            0.7         5.1        ___
2. Public Enterprise Evaluation
(SEST)
2.1 Rehabilitation Programs               1 2       11.9       13.1
2.2 Training in Performance
Evaluation                                       1.7         1.7
Subtotal                             1.2       =1.6        14.8
3. Support of Administrative Reform
(SEPLAN- SG)                            0.1         1.3         1.4
4-  Training-CENDEC                           0.3        2.7         3.0
5.  Strengthening Statistical Services
5.1 I.B.G.E.                             6.2         9.3        15.5
5.2 Fundacao Getulio Vargas              0.2         1.0         1.3
Subtotal                             6.4        10.3       16.8
Base Cost-SEPLAN Component                8.8       33.0       41.8
6.  Finance Ministry-National
Treasury Secretariat (STN)
6.1 Integrated Information and
Control Systems                      0.4         2.8       3.2
6.2 Training of Special Auditing Unit   *            0.4       0.4
6.3 Comptroller General Audit Training  0.2          2.4       2.6
6.4 Government Assets Administration    0.1          0.8       0.9
Base Cost-STN Component                  0.7         6.4       7.1
Project Management                       0.3         0.5       0.8
Total Base Cost                           9.8       39.9      49.7
Physical Contingency                                           7gS
Price Contingency                        0.9         3.4       4.3
Total Project Cost                       11.6       46.9      58.5
_=
Financing Plan:
Bank                                     11.6       17.4      29.0
Government                               -          29.5      29.5
Total                                    11.6       46.9      58.5
=                      =
Estimated Disbursements:           Bank    FY1987       1988       1989      1990
(USS millions)     --
Annual                                    6.0       11.0       7.0        5.0
Cumulative                               6.0        17.0      24.0       29.0
* $50,000 or less



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$29.0 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$29.0
million to help finance a Public Sector Management Project. The loan would
have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled 'Brazil:  Country Economic
Memorandum" (Report No. 5373-BR, dated February 26, 1985) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 7, 1985.
3-        Brazil's Government changed in March 1985 following indirect
elections in January for the first civilian president in 21 years. This
completed a major stage of the return to a fully democratic government and
involved a change in regime as well as administration, re-establishing the
authority of elected Federal and State representatives throughout Brazil.
In this changed environment the inability of the successful presidential
candidate, Mr. Tancredo Neves, to take office, created a crisis for the new
Government.  On Mr. Neves' death in April 1985, Vice-President Jose Sarney
became President and has since faced the task of pursuing the objectives
stated by Mr. Neves, while also establishing his own authority in the New
Republic.
4.        The Sarney government is committed to a program of reform,
economic growth and inflation control, with a strong social and
anti-poverty orientation. Its first National Development Plan for 1986-89,
presented to Congress in November 1985, stresses social objectives
including the gradual recovery of real wages and, among Government
programs, a concentration on improving health, nutrition and housing for
low-income Brazilians. Reform of the public sector is a strategic
objective. The Government intends to concentrate more on -traditional-
functions, such as the provision of social services and basic infra-
structure, leaving directly productive activities increasingly for private
sector initiative. Given population growth of 2.2% p.a., and a more rapid
increase in the labor force, the Plan states as an essential condition a
return to GDP growth of at least 6% a year. Three major stabilization aims
are embodied in the Plan: reductions in the public sector deficit, re-
negotiation of the external debt, and the control of inflation.



-2-
Recent Econoric Performance
5.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11% average annual growth in real
GDP in the years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a
significant liberalization of both foreign and domestic trade. Further
substantial growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual
average rate of 7Z, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the
large increases in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the international
recession, and the sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, successive
Brazilian governments sought to maintain output and employment growth
through policies characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for
industrial and agricultural exports and import substitution; rising import
barriers; investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for
imported oil; the expansion of state enterprises; and heavy foreign borrow-
ing. Between 1975 and 1980, Brazil's medium- and long-term debt more than
doubled from US$23.5 billion to US$56.5 billion, with total obligations of
approximately US$70 billion, including short-term debt. The efforts to
redress the external imbalance after 1974 created strong internal pressures
and increased inflation. The economy remained vulnerable to external
shocks, and when further increases in oil prices occurred in 1979 and 1980,
and international interest rates increased, the current account deficit
more than doubled to US$12.4 billion. Domestic inflation accelerated to
110%.
6.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline of GDP in 1981, ending the long period of sustained
growth. Incipient recovery was checked in 1982 by a combination of
external developments, including declining world commodity prices, economic
problems of some major trading partners, and regional events leading to the
debt crisis of August 1982. Faced with the loss of its reserves, the
reluctance of foreign banks to roll over existing loans or extend new
credits, and bleak international market prospects, Brazil sought assistance
from the International Monetary Fund in support of an intensified adjust-
ment program. In February 1983, the IMF approved Extended Fund Facility
and compensatory financing arrangements, for a total amount equivalent to
about US$5.4 billion for the 1983-85 period. Associated with this were
commercial bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the
rescheduling of US$4.6 billion in loan repayments due in 1983, and other
measures of financial support. A similar agreement for 1984 provided,
inter alia, for the rescheduling of US$4.7 billion in loan repayments, and
the ccumitment of US$6.4 billion in new commercial bank loans.
7.        With this support, and through adjustment measures which included
a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro early in 1983, import restrictions, and
tight monetary and fiscal restraints, Brazil weathered its foreign exchange
crisis. A trade surplus of US$6.5 billion was achieved in 1983 as imports
declined by 21% and exports increased by 9%; the current account deficit
was reduc2de from US$14.8 billion in 1982 (equivalent to about 5% of GDP) to
US$6.2 billion in 1983.
8.        The short-run cost of these adjustments was nevertheless high.
Inflation reached 211% in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by crop shortages,
very high real interest rates, and the effects of devaluation.  Real GD?
fell by 3.2% in 1983, with the greatest reductions concentrated in the
industrial and commercial sectors. Per capita GDP declined by over 12%
during 1981-83 and industrial employment by over 20%, with the largest



- 3 -
reductions in incomes and employment concentrated in the main industrial
centers. Much of the social progress made in the 1970s--when all income
groups gained from economic growth and the expansion of education, health,
housing and urban and rural development programs--was undermined by the
recession.
9.        The recovery began in 1984.  Balance-of-payments performance was
again highly positive, aided by exchange rate changes which fully accounted
for domestic inflation and by the strong growth of the US economy. An
unprecedented trade surplus of US$13.1 billion was generated. Although
total imports, especially of oil, continued to fall, much of this surplus
resulted from export expansion. Measured in current US dollars, total
exports for 1984 were 23% greater than in 1983; the comparable increase for
industrial exports was 37%. Reflecting the favorable trade performance,
and substantial net capital inflows, Brazil's international reserve
position also improved markedly in 1984 with a net increase of over US$7
billion. Sparked by the export resurgence, GDP for 1984 is estimated to
have grown by 4.5% in real terms, or over 2Z per capita. The increase in
manufacturing exports helped industrial recovery, despite the fact that for
most sectors the proportion of total output which is exported remained
small. Overall expansion was still inhibited by depressed domestic market
conditions, high inflation (224%), and real interest rates of 30-40%.
10.       In 1985, GDP growth accelerated and is estimated to have reached
8.3% in real terms for the year as a whole. The recovery was led by
industry, which expanded by an estimated 9.0%, though investment spending
remained low. Industrial employment increased by 6%. Open unemployment
declined significantly in 1985, in the major urban centers. Agriculture
expanded by an estimated 8.8%, contributing both to the balance of payments
and to domestic supply. Temporary price restraints imposed by the new
Government resulted in a reduction in price increases from nearly 12% a
month in the first quarter of 1985 to 7.6% in the second. Subsequent
increases, however, brought the 1985 annual rate to 235%. Externally, the
trade surplus amounted to over US$12.4 billion, the current account deficit
was about 0.5% of GDP, and gross international reserves remained at a level
equivalent to about 8 months of imports.
11.       The high GDP growth of 1985 was achieved by relaxing demand
policies in the belief that the increased demand could be absorbed by the
substantial excess capacity in the economy. The public sector deficit,
adjusted for monetary correction, increased from 1.6% of GDP in 1984 to
about 3.5% in 1985. Generous wage settlements in the organized industrial
sector, including partial quarterly adjustments of wages, resulted, at
least temporarily, in real wage gains of 8-10% for these industries, and
Federal Government salaries were also increased to compensate for large
previous declines. Profits were high in many private sector activities.
Monetary policy from August 1985 was accommodating; in fact, some of the
expansion in the monetary aggregates that occurred was aimed at reducing
interest rates. With a sharp reduction in foreign financing, the growing
public debt was financed domestically at high, though later declining, real
interest rates. The real rate on Government securities declined from 21%
in August to 15Z by the end of the year. For the year, as a whole, the
monetary aggregates increased faster than the 235% inflation: 251X for the
monetary base, 312% for MI, and 262X for M3.
12.       By the end of 1985, inflation was causing new concern.  The rate
of inflation increased late in the year because of the need to raise public



- 4 -
sector and other regulated prices that had been held down in previous
months and through anticipation of the effects of a drought in the South
which damaged food crops and coffee. Inflation reached monthly rates of
11X in November and 13% in December, followed by rates of 16Z and over 14%
in January and February of 1986, respectively. In late 1985, the
Government had prepared a program to reduce inflation gradually which was
centered around a substantial reduction of the fiscal deficit. Taxes were
increased and there were cuts in Federal Government and state enterprise
expenditure. Budgetary control was strengthened in January 1986 by the
unification of the fiscal and monetary budgets, transferring to the
Treasury the responsibility for programs previously financed by the Central
Bank and Bank of Brazil; the termination of the Bank of Brazil's role as a
second monetary authority; and the establishment of a National Treasury
Secretariat to centralize budget disbursements. A program for
restructuring and selective privatization of state enterprises was
initiated. Alarmed by the spurt in inflation in December and January, the
Government tightened consumer credit and announced a plan to increase food
imports to offset the drought-related increase in agricultural prices. At
the same time, a more radical comprehensive program to stop inflation was
being prepared.
Economic Outlook
13.      On February 28, the Government initiated its new program for
stabilization and currency reform. Until then, the inflation outlook for
1986 was threatening. There were a number of inflationary factors needing
to be dealt with, including the disappearance of excess capacity in a
number of industries, the pressures to raise wages to pre-recession levels
and to protect workers from higher future inflation, the poor agricultural
harvest, and the need to raise some public sector tariffs and prices.
Moreover, there was a growing awareness that maintaining inflation at
200-250% a year, the rate of the prior three years, was likely to be very
difficult over the medium term. The economy was reacting very quickly to
new, negative shocks, and the indexation system made it hard to bring
inflation down, once the shocks were reflected in the price index. In
addition, the small size of the monetary base relative to GDP (about 22)
and the high liquidity of Government bonds complicated the use of monetary
policy to reduce aggregate demand.
14.       The new program seeks both to eliminate the impact of past,
indexed inflation and to change future inflation expectations.  It features
a currency reform, with the new cruzado initially worth 1,000 cruzeiros; a
temporary price freeze on goods and services; an exchange rate set at
Cz$13.8 to the US dollar for a period to be determined; wage adjustments to
their average real value over the previous 6 months, with annual
adjustments thereafter, at least partly indexed to inflation; the freezing
for one year of rent and mortgage payments; prohibition of indexation of
financial contracts for periods of less than a year, except for personal
savings accounts; the conversion of nominal cruzeiro contracts to
appropriate cruzado values; the conversion of indexed Government bonds to
cruzados at the parity existing on February 28, without any adjustment, at
least for one year, in the nominal value of the new bonds; and a number of
measures intended to liberalize the financial system. These sweeping
financial reforms were accompanied by a continued effort to reduce the
fiscal deficit and to use monetary policy to stabilize and, if possible,
reduce real interest rates. A limited unemployment insurance program was



-5-
introduced. Initial political and public reactions have been highly
positive.
15.       Preliminary assessments suggest that the reforms will provide
increased stability and encourage productive private sector investment,
although there are risks inherent in the reforms, including problems of
adjustment for the financial sector. The transition period could be marked
by a temporary reduction in growth. Nevertheless, GDP growth is expected
to be substantial, even with below-normal agricultural growth due to the
recent drought. The exchange rate remains competitive; previous mini-
devaluations against the US dollar, and the decline of the dollar relative
to the currencies of Brazil's other trading partners, have resulted in a
15-20X fall in the real effective exchange rate since early 1985. The
February 28 wage adjustments do not raise real wage costs. The large trade
surplus remains a positive factor for growth. While progress needs to be
carefully monitored, the economic outlook has been substantially improved
by the measures to restore internal stability to complement the strong
Brazilian performance in external trade and the balance of payments.
16.       The medium-term economic outlook for Brazil is thus encouraging,
assuming the maintenance of a sound exchange rate policy, reasonable
success in the implementation of the new stabilization package, and the
present determination to reduce the public sector deficit. A focus on
further export promotion, greater productive efficiency, improved resource
allocation and increased savings and investment will be required if annual
GDP growth rates are to remain high enough (6-7% on average) to restore
living standards and generate the employment growth (at least 4% per annum)
to fit new entrants into the labor force and reabsorb those still affected
by the recent recession.
17.       The country's prospects depend on external factors outside the
control of Brazilian policy makers as well as on economic and social
policies pursued within the country. Recent developments, including the
decline in international interest rates and the fall in oil prices, have
been positive for Brazil. A 1% drop in average interest rates means a
balance-of-payments gain of about US$800 million. The agreement reached in
March with commercial bank creditors reschedules 1985 maturities, rolls
over 1986 maturities until early 1987, and reduces interest rates on this
debt from 2-1/8 to 1-1/8% over LIBOR. This agreement, which affects about
20% of Brazil's variable rate debt, will reduce annual interest payments by
some US$140 million. A reduction of a dollar per barrel in oil prices
means a net gain of over US$100 million a year.
18.       Brazil remains dependent on its success in exporting and
therefore on the international economy, market access, and its own trade
policies. However, major structural changes in its trade accounts in
recent years, including substantial export growth and recent efficient
import substitution in both industrial products and petroleum, should make
it feasible to continue to generate large trade surpluses for several
years, even with nominal growth in non-oil imports of up to 20% a year.
External Financing and Creditworthiness
19.       On the basis of relatively cautious assumptions about the
international environment, but assuming continued domestic economic growth,
Brazil could achieve substantial improvements in its balance of payments



- 6 -
situation, external debt outlook, and creditworthiness indicators. Bank
analysis, based on expected macro-economic and sector performance under
current and planned economic policies, results in projections of GDP growth
averaging about 7X in 1985-90, with additional foreign financing. Brazil's
net medium- and long-term financing needs are projected to average US$3.6
billion annually in the period 1986-90. Of this amount, approximately US$2
billion would be needed annually from commercial sources. With these
moderate levels of net new foreign borrowing, Brazil's total medium- and
long-term debt would grow at an annual rate of 3.8X from 1985 to 1990,
below the projected rate of international inflation, and would thus decline
in real terms.
20.       Brazil's creditworthiness indicators are expected to improve
substantially by the end of the decade. The medium- and long-term debt
service ratio is projected to fall from 69Z of goods and non-factor service
exports in 1985, before the March rescheduling, to 52% in 1990. Similarly,
the ratio of total external debt to exports, which amounted to 3.6 in 1985,
is projected to decline to 2.6 by 1990. Nonetheless, debt service payments
will remain high. Interest payments alone would be equivalent to 24% of
exports in 1990, compared to 39% of exports in '985. Therefore, Brazil
will either need to reschedule its commercial bank debt further or seek
much larger amounts of new gross borrowing. With continuation of its
adjustment program and of its sound balance-of-payments performance, and an
adequate but moderate flow of net new foreign financing, Brazil's long-term
prospects are good.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By March 31, 1986, the Bank had made 145 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$11,147.1 million (net of cancellations), of which 66 were
not yet fully disbursed. The undisbursed amount as of March 31, 1986 was
US$3,687.9 million. Debt outstanding and disbursed was US$5,042.0 million,
equivalent to 102 of the Bank's portfolio. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and IFC investments.
22.       Over the FY77-84 period, annual Bank lending to Brazil ranged
from US$425 million to about US$1,573 million per year. Nine loans
totalling US$1,523.0 million were approved in FY85. Thus far in FY86 six
loans have been approved, a small towns improvement project in the amount
of US$24.5 million; a Northeast urban reconstruction project for US$100.0
million; an irrigation engineering project for US$48.0 million; a
metropolitan urban development project for US$55.0 million; a second
agricultural extension project for US$155.0 million; and a Northeast health
project for $59.5 million. In addition to a Northeast rural development
project and an irrigation project scheduled for early consideration by the
Executive Directors, work is advanced on a second agricultural sector
project; the power sector project; and four additional rural development
projects in the Northeast region.
23.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated at US$88 billion at the end of



-7-
1985. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 4.8% while its share
in total debt service is estimated at 4.1%.
24.       As of March 31, 1986, lFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,041.14 million, of which US$710.73 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$330.41 million, US$255.47 million
represent loans and US$74.94 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of March 31, 1986 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Sustained economic growth with social progress requires
substantial domestic adjustments. Stability and growth will depend on
tighter public sector expenditure and deficit control, increased savings
and investment, and a sound balance of payments. To reduce the fiscal
deficit, and to promote greater overall efficiency in the use of available
domestic and external resources, the Government will have to reduce its
participatUon in direct productive activities, while concentrating a
growing share of its total expenditures in the social sectors and in other
traditional Government services. The private sector, therefore, will have
an increasingly important role in the future growth of productivity and
production. In this policy framework, the Bank lending strategy is
designed to support the ongoing restructuring process, promote the
mobilization and effective use of resources, and contribute to the
attainment of social and regional development objectives to which high
priority is also attached by the Government.
26.       The Bank lending strategy is supported by an intensive economic
policy dialogue, through which the conclusions of the Bank's economic and
sector work are being taken into account by the Brazilian authorities. The
composition of the lending program has been decided jointly by the
Government and the Bank, also in support of the strategy summarized above.
Most of the proposed loans aim at achieving one or more of three key
objectives: (a) structural reforms in agriculture, industry and the
management of the public sector; (b) the rehabilitation and development of
essential infrastructure; and (c) the increase in productivity, and the
improvement in living conditions, of the rural and urban poor.
27.       Three proposed FY86 operations (including the loan proposed in
this report) support, as their main objective, important aspects of the
structural reform process:
(a) The proposed Public Sector Management loan would, inter
alia, assist the Government in its efforts to: (i) improve
the-programming and monitoring of the Federal Budget and of
the Public Investment Program; (ii) promote the financial
rehabilitation, and in some cases privatization, of state
enterprises, through the adoption of action plans by
individual enterprises, and through better monitoring of
their activities by the Planning Ministry; and (iii)
strengthen the control of public expenditures through the
newly created National Treasury Secretariat. An important
aspect of this loan is the agreement between the Bank and
the Goverrment to have an annual exchange of views on the
execution of the public investment program during the prior



-8-
year and on the program for the subsequent three years. The
first Bank review of the Government's investment program is
now being completed. This loan would effectively
institutionalize the review process. The Bank assessment of
public investment performance and programs which would
emerge from the annual exchange of views, and of the
analysis of the related relevant information, could
eventually be made available by the Government to other
parties (for instance, commercial banks).
(b) The proposed Power Sector Rehabilitation loan would deepen,
for the power sector, the process of rehabilitating the
state enterprises referred to above. This loan is based
upon a four-year sector investment program, carefully
prerFared during the last two years by the Government and
ELE-.ROBRAS, with the technical support of Bank staff.  The
program includes only high-priority projects, and its
associated financial plan envisages the full financial
rehabilitation of the sector over the four-year period.
While tariff increases have been delayed in 1986 owing to
the general price freeze which accompanied the February 28
monetary reform, the Government will provide substantial
additional amounts to the sector during 1986, in the form of
equity investment. Moreover, the sector rehabilitation
program supported by this loan includes rehabilitation
plans, acceptable to the Bank, for the individual utilities,
and envisages substantial annual increases in the sector
revenues, starting in 1987.
(c) The proposed Agricultural Sector Loan would support two
basic policy reforms: (i) the adoption of a new rural
credit policy, based upon interest rates which will
fluctuate according to market conditions and which will
imply a substantial reduction of credit subsidies; and (ii)
the liberalization of trade of agricultural products,
including the removal of controls on exports, imports, and
prices, except in the case of extreme price fluctuations in
the international markets. These policies would eliminate
the frequent and erratic Government interventions in the
agricultural markets, which constituted an important
disincentive to investment and production, only
partially--and very imperfectly-compensated by substantial
and costly credit subsidies.
28.       Taken together, the policies and decisions referred to in the
previous paragraph constitute a major step forward in the process of
structural reform of the Brazilian economy. These reforms are part of
Brazil's short- and medium-term economic program, which is now being
updated by the Government to take full account of the expected results of
the financial and stabilization policy decisions adopted in January and



- 9 -
February of this year. Given their scope and nature, the reforms described
above deserve the full support of the Bank, even before the updating of the
Government programs is completed. The availability of a complete
macroeconomic policy framework acceptable to the Bank, however, will be a
prerequisite for the processing of subsequent policy-based operations.
These are likely to include, in the near future, loans designed to support
the on-going reform of Brazil's financial system, which began with the
separation of the Central Bank and the Bank of Brazil in January and the
monetary reform in February of this year; the promotion of export-oriented
industrial growth; the rehabilitation and selective privatization of
industrial state enterprises, as a follow-up of the proposed FY86 Public
Sector Management project; and possible follow-up loans to support the
power sector rehabilitation program.
29.       The second lending objective--rehabilitation and development of
essential infrastructure--will be pursued mainly through loans for power,
transportation, and water supply and sewerage, some of which are also aimed
at other key objectives. Of particular importance in this respect are the
planned operations for the power sector (including the proposed Power
Sector loan referred to above), which will support high priority projects,
designed and implemented in the framework of a sound sector investment
program and of appropriate financial policies. Lending for transportation
will be directed toward the rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing
transportation network with expansion in areas where economic activity is
outgrowing present capacity. Future loans for water supply and sewerage
will be mostly directed to the Northeast Region.
30.       A third lending objective is to help intensify the efforts of the
Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income segments of
the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those groups, and to
improve their living conditions.  Previous loans for primary education,
vocational training, agricultural research and extension, land reform,
integrated rural development, water supply, sewerage, and health are
already assisting the improvement of the living conditions, and the
increase in productivity, of the Brazilian population, particularly the
rural and urban poor of the Northeast Region. Future lending in the health
sector will seek to extend coverage of basic health services in the
Northeast, and to combat endemic diseases in the Northeast and the
Northwest. Continued lending for integrated rural development and
irrigation projects in the Northeast of Brazil will support the
Government's objectives to further alleviate poverty, by addressing the
region's vulnerability to drought, inadequate structure of regional
institutions, and concentration of land ownership. Further lending for
urban development will address ways to improve urban services and
infrastructure, while simultaneously strengthening the financial basis of
municipalities, particularly in the Northeast Region, with a view toward
self-financing of investments and cost recovery. New projects for water
supply and sewerage will also foster these goals while extending services
to rural areas and to the low-income urban population. Education lending
will continue to strengthen financial and administrative capacity while
also increasing the contribution of education to the development process,
especially in the Northeast.
31.       Continued lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the
international financial community as a sign of confidence in Brazil's
development prospects. In some sectors, especially in electric power and
industry, Bank participation has helped Brazil obtain additional resources



- 10 -
from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions. Since
1976, 11 cofinancing operations for about US$570 million were arranged and
signed with private financial institutions. There have been no cofinancing
opportunities with commercial banks in the past four years, as the volume
and terms of commercial bank financing available to Brazil were determined
within the framework of debt rescheduling negotiations. In view, however,
of Brazil's current programs of structural adjustment, its recent progress
in restoring a sound balance-of-payments position, and its current efforts
to control inflation, the prospects for renewed voluntary lending from
commercial banks are improving, although the likelihood of a future
multi-year rescheduling might pose some difficulties in this respect. In
this framework, the Bank's cofinancing instruments may well play a positive
role in assisting Brazil to iagain its normal access to iaternational
capital markets.
PART III - PUTBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT
32.       During the 1970s, Brazil's public sector expanded rapidly in
size, both in absolute terms and in relation to the economy as a whole.
Its operations became increasingly complex, diverse and distortionary as
the Government sought to maintain investment and growth in a difficult
external environment, counter inflationary trends for which growing public
sector deficits were themselves largely responsible and meet a variety of
competing and sometimes conflicting social objectives.
33.       As claims on the resources of the public sector increased, the
conventional Treasury management mechanisms, involving the collection of
federal tax revenues and their allocation to ministries, state enterprises
and other autonomous agencies, were progressively undermined.   A growing
proportion of revenues was earmarked for specific agencies or purposes.
Special funds were often created to receive earmarked revenues, and, in
turn, to direct expenditures to widely defined and often loosely monitored
objectives. Public agencies used Treasury allocations for interagency and
other transfers not authorized in the budget. The channels for allocating
resources among and through public agencies and enterprises became
increasingly complex. Inflexible traditional budget controls were
incompatible with the growth and dynamism of the public sector. They were
most inadequate in relation to the control over the increasing number of
large state enterprises and autonomous agencies, and over the credit and
consumer subsidies increasingly employed both to encourage agricultural and
export production and to reduce the price rises for basic commodities. In
effect, the central authorities lost, over a period, the ability to program
and monitor public sector resource management and use, or even to control
its magnitudes.
34.       Total resources available to the public sector expanded primarily
because the monetary budget, administered by the Central Bank and intended
as a tool of monetary restraint, was used increasingly to channel
development and welfare expenditures through a number of subsidized credit
programs and through producer and consumer subsidy arrangements for basic
commodities such as wheat and petroleum. Externally, borrowing also
enlarged resource availability. Most of it was undertaken by major state
enterprises in an ambitious investment program designed for import
substitution and export development in response to the major increases in
the cost of imported petroleum. Internally generated funds were
inadequate, the more so because prices for the public sector goods and



- 11 -
services were controlled in the effort to hold down inflation. The
capacity of major enterprises to borrow abroad was also used to attract
external resources for general balance-of-payments purposes unrelated to
individual investment programs or productive potential. The projects
themselves were often approved without systematic determination of the
financing available.
35.        The requirements for improved public sector management stem,
essentially, from these distortions which developed mainly in the 1970s and
which, because of the changed circumstances facing Brazil, have to be
largely or wholly corrected in the 1980s.
36.        Efficient management of the public sector in Brazil is
complicated by its large size and diverse structure. In addition to the
Federal Government, 3 federal territories, 23 states and about 4,000
municipalities, a large number of decentralized, largely autonomous public
enterprises and entities have been operating at Federal, State and local
levels. Through these enterprises, the public sector engages in a range of
economic activities including banking, petroleum and other energy
development, mining, public utilities, communications, railways and
shipping, petrochemicals and steel. The Federal enterprises include 14
official financial institutions and the funds providing for the social
security system. There are large numbers of autonomous agencies with
little independent earning capacity. As noted, the state enterprise sector
has been the fastest growing part of the government system, with the
largest needs for external finance.
37.        In 1979, faced with growing inflationary pressures and
tightening balance-of-payments constraints, the Government began to
introduce a series of needed reforms in public sector management. These
included: (i) the phasing out of most tax earmarking, reducing its ratio
from 47% of total Treasury revenues in 1978 to about 18% in 1983, with the
remainder consisting mainly of revenue-sharing with the states and
municipalities; (ii) the gradual shift of expenditures items from the
monetary budget to the Treasury budget where they would be subject to more
scrutiny and control; and (iii) the centralization within SEPLAN of
authority over public enterprises and autonomous institutions, in terms of
their expenditures, pricing, domestic and foreign credit operations,
Treasury transfers, and imports, with most of these responsibilities
assigned to a new organization, the Special Secretariat for the Control of
State Enterprises (SEST).
38.        As a result, the public sector was brought under much closer
control. Budgets were constrained, staff levels frozen or cut, and
investments considerably reduced. The fiscal success of these measures is
reflected in the reduction secured in overall public sector borrowing
requirements. Net of monetary correction on indexed public debt, the
public sector deficit was reduced from 6.6% of GDP in 1982 to about 1.4% in
1984, with the Federal Government achieving a surplus in that year.
39.        The necessary emphasis on crisis management and expenditure
control limited the Government's opportunities, until recently, for broader
planning and public sector management initiatives. The needs were
re:ognized but action was constrained pending the change of administration
in March 1985. Since then, in an environment of new economic growth but
with continuing tight resource constraints, imposed by limited access to
foreign borrowing and the pressures of accumulated domestic as well as



- 12 -
external debt, there have been determined efforts to tackle both the
short-term and longer-range challenges for public sector management.  The
short-term issues are being addressed through the Government's 1986
economic program, described in Part I. This is evidence of the
determination to regain fiscal stability and to allocate resources more
effectively to priority economic and social programs, cutting whenever
feasible the high costs of commodity subidies and price supports,
assistance to state enterprises and other expenditures, including
improductive investments.
40.       In the wider areas of public sector management which are the
responsibility of the Ministry of Planning (SEPLAN), the aim is to
strengthen management capabilities and systems for medium-term development
programs at key points from the initial planning stages and the provision
of better information for decision-makers to the preparation of sectoral
investment programs, project evaluation, and implementation. It is
intended to promote improved management, resource mobilization and
allocation throughout the Federal public sector, and at the same time to
prepare the ground, through a series of studies, for further systems
reform. The Ministry of Finance has a parallel interest in improved
management of budgeting and financial systems. All Federal and federally-
financed operations, reaching to the State and municipal levels, are thus
involved in the thrust for better management.
Priority Areas
41.       There are five major areas of special emphasis in the present
program for improved public sector management:
(a) Development of Federal planning and management systems
including the planning and research, information and
reporting, programming, budgeting and project evaluation,
training, and control responsibilities of SEPLAN;
(b) New integrated systems for the management of Federal
budgeting, finance, and debt, through the Treasury
Secretariat of the Ministry of Finance;
(c) Measures to improve the performance of the Federal state
enterprise system, with emphasis on measures to deal with
problem enterprises and the investment program and
financing of the enterprises as a whole, including the
privatization of some of them;
(d) Improved information systems, to provide a firmer foundation
for decision-making at Federal and other levels of
Government and in the private sector. Essentially, this
involves a major development program for national and
regional statistics, which have been inadequate in the past
for a country of Brazil's size, sophiscation, and Government
and private sector management needs; and
(e) Research which would serve as the basis for further
improvements in all the above management areas and,
subsequently, for more fundamental administrative and
governmental reforms.



- 13 -
42.       More information is given in Annex VI on the circumstances
leading to the priority now being given to improved management in each of
the above areas, and the steps planned or being implemented now. The
proposed project is designed to have a major impact in all of them, in the
next 3-4 years.
Bank Assistance for Public Sector Management
43.       The proposed loan would be the first to be made specifically for
strengthening public sector managment in Brhazil. The direct beneficiaries
would be the Ministries of Planning and Finance, which are at the center of
the Federal system. In much of its previous lending to Brazil, however,
the Bank has focused on the development of planning, research and
management capabilities of the sectoral and regional development agencies,
at Federal, State and local government levels, responsible for the
implementation of projects and programs supported by Bank loans. This is
evident, for example, in the 33 loans for agricultural development,
especially those for agricultural extension, land tenure improvement, and
for land settlement, irrigation and rural development mainly in the
Northeast; in the electric power sector, where the loan program has helped
develop planning, project evaluation and implementation throughout Brazil;
in transport, where institutional development is critical to provision of
reliable freight transportation at competitive rates to support economic
growth and export expansion; in education, where improvements in basic and
technical education and in science and technology depend mainly on
improving financial and managerial capacity; in increasing efficiency,
equity and cost-efficiency in the health care system; and in urban
development, where the emphasis is on improving financial and management
capacity in the Federal, State and municipal institutions responsibility
for planning, administration and service delivery. The Bank is supporting
policy research, through its agricultural credit and export development
lending; sectoral planning as well as project evaluation, in such key
institutions as the National Development Bank (BNDES) and National Housing
Bank (BHN); and program management at national, regional and local levels.
The sectoral and regional initiatives can now be complemented and
integrated by a project which encourages the Federal-level plans to develop
mechanisms to strengthen research, planning and management systems which
will influence the course of development in Brazil as a whole.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       The loan proposal has its origins in recent Bank economic and
sector work which identified project evaluation, multi-year investment
planning and Government supervision of state enterprise operations as key
areas in which the Bank might be of help to the Goverrnent, especially the
Ministry of Planning (SEPLAN). Separately, the Bank had undertaken a
review of the Brazilian natiornal accounts system which led to proposals
both for institutional reform and a program for national accounts and
related statistical development. The subsequent interest of the Government
in developing an integrated management system for SEPLAN led to a more
comprehensive approach which is now embodied in the project design. Thus,



- 14 -
a range of information, research, planning, budgeting and 6perational and
training components have been brought within the scope of a project which
can be centrally managed and coordinated within SEPLAN. In addition, a
separate large component has been developed with the Ministry of Finance,
in support of the newly created National Treasury Secretariat, which has
been given special responsibilities for the control of public funds.
45.       Preparation of the project was undertaken, therefore, by SEPLAN
and the Ministry of Finance. SEPLAN components were appraised by the Bank
in October, 1985; the Ministry of Finance component in February 1986.
Negotiations took place in Washington on May 5-13, 1986. The Brazilian
delegation was led by Dr. Edson Nunes, Deputy Secretary General of SEPLAN.
Project Objectives and Description
46.       The new Government's development strategy emphasizes growth
relying primarily on private sector initiative. To achieve this and to
increase the availability of resources for investment in increased
production, growth in the public sector will be constrained. The
Government intends to concentrate more on "traditional" functions-the
provision of social services and basic infrastructure--leaving directly
productive activities increasingly to the private sector. The aim is to
achieve greater efficiency in Government and better control over the
limited resources which will be available to the public sector, including
the state enterprises responsible for most public investment. At the same
time, the Government will strengthen its capacity for planning and policy
formulation for the economy as a whole. The project focuses on the
responsibilities of two key economic ministries, SEPLAN and the Ministry of
Finance. SEPLAN is responsible for economic and social development
policies, for planning multi-year public investment programs, and for the
supervision of state enterprises. Its structure encompasses the Federal
Budget and Finance Secretariat (SOF); the Special Secretariat for State
Enterprises (SEST); the research, investment, planning and training
institutions grouped under the Institute for Economic and Social Planning
(IPEA); and the national statistical organization (IBGE). The Ministry of
Finance is responsible for the management of resources determined by the
now unified, comprehensive annual Government budget. Through the new
National Treasury Secretariat (STN) within this Ministry, the Government
intends to control more effectively the whole process of Federal budget
approval, authorization, disbursement and expenditure control.
47.       The strengthening of organizational and management systems,
especially within SEPLAN and among its agencies, is recognized by the
Government and the Bank as of central importance for successful project
implementation. Major structural changes are envisaged within SEPLAN and
in IPEA, especially at the Institute of Planning, IPLAN. Plans fcr
management and organizational development within IBGE are well advanced.
The establishment of the National Treasury Secretariat, within the Ministry
of Finance also represents a major institutional change which the loan
would support. The project should therefore be implemented in a management
environment contributing to its success.



- 15 -
48.       Brazil is not short of managerial skills within and outside the
public sector, or of the capacity to organize and implement large programs
and change public sector management structures as required. However,
recent performance in the areas encompassed by the project has not been
satisfactory.   The Government decision to request a Bank loan to support
the project, and its implementation, demonstrates both the high priority
attached to the project and the desire to implement all its components
fully and quickly. Bank participation is sought partly for financial
reasons, in a continued resource restricted environment. More
fundamentally, the Bank is expected to act as a catalyst in the planning
and implementation of required public sector management reforms.
49.       The proposed loan would support the following specific measures
to strengthen public sector management:
(a)  A SEPLAN program to develop planning and management capacity
in the areas of sector and project analysis, multi-year
investment planning, and program monitoring, including
expanded provision for social sector evaluation; and to
improve budget planning;
(b) a program to be implemented by the Secretariat for State
Enterprises (SEST) to:
'i) institute a performance evaluation system for all
state enterprises under its supervision;
(ii) develop rehabilitation programs for 30 of these state
enterprises; and
(iii) strengthen SEST's own capacity for diversified
control of the state productive sector;
(c)  the establishment and operation, by the new National
Treasury Secretariat of the Ministry of Finance, of an
integrated budget information and control system; improved
systems of Government assets administration; and training
for Federal, State and municipal auditors, including those
responsible for the auditing standards for Federal
Government projects supported by the Bank.
(d)  other components of SEPLAN's integrated deve:.  ent program,
including:
(i) expanded management training programs for staff of
SEPLAN and other Ministries;
(ii) priority economic and social research;
(iii) the improvement of economic and social information
systems, including the national accounts; and



- 16 -
(iv) studies required for further administrative reform.
The detailed objectives and subcomponents for these project components are
set out below.
Strengthening Planning Capacity, Sector and Project Analysis, Monitoring
and Evaluation
50.       SEPLAN attaches high priority to the development of planning and
analytical capabilities within IPLAN and generally in the public sector.
The central objective of this project component, which is expected to
account for 5% of project costs, is to assist IPLAN to (a) refine its
global, sectoral and regional planning methodologies; (b) improve the
methods used in carrying out the economic appraisal of major public sector
investment projects and in analyzing programs and projects in the social
sectors; (c) organize more effective systems to moniLor the implementation
of Government programs and projects and evaluate their effectiveness; and
(d) carry out evaluations of social sector projects and improve their
design as well as evaluation method.
51.       Improvements in planning and project appraisal are to be brought
about as follows:
(a)  The concepts and methods used in overall planning and in
preparing such key planning documents as the National
Economic Development Plan, the Target Plan and the
multi-year public investment program are to be reviewed and
redefined, taking into account that in the new democratic
environment, the formulation of public policies is to be
much more participatory and the decision-making process more
decentralized. It follows that the public institutions need
to receive appropriate technical guidance in their planning
functions, in preparing projects and submitting them to an
adequate process of technical and economic analysis. At the
same time, methods to achieve a better integration of sector
and over-all Government policies are to be proposed. This
subcomponent, to be carried out over a four-month period,
will involve 12 man months of consultant services which are
to be financed by the Bank. An IPLAN team is to devote 15
man months to the task;
(b)  The ability of IPLAN to analyze sector priorities and
intersectoral linkages is to be strengthened through the
efforts of an IPLAN Working Group which is to be assisted by
46 months of consulting services over a six-month period.
The performance and prospects of the key economic and social
sectors would be analyzed. On the basis of these diagnostic
studies, appropriate planning models and guidelines useful
in analyzing proposed programs and projects are to be
developed;
(c) With the assistance of national research institutions and



- 17 -
regional planning organizations, IPLAN will attempt to
develop appropriate methodologies which permit a better
integration of regional with national and sector planning;
and
(d) Appropriate appraisal methods for projects In both the
productive' and social sectors are to be defined and then
tested by applying them to specific sectors and Government
programs. As a first step, a leading university research
institute is to calculate shadow prices of labor, capital,
foreign exchange and other parameters to be used in the
economic appraisal of investment projects throughout the
public sector and propose a system for the regional
differentiation of the shadow prices of labor and land.
This would be followed by the 'ormation of an IPLAN Task
Force which, with the help of Brazilian and external
consultants, is to define the most appropriate and
operationally useful methods for economic and social cost/
benefit analysis to be used in project appraisal. The
cost/benefit methodology as well as the global, sector and
regional models and guidelines are then to be used in
studying specific sector, regional and social programs.
Finally, the merits of the new approach are to be discussed
first with other parts of the public sector, such as the
public enterprises, and then with foreign planning centers.
The approach is to be refined in the light of this exchange
of views and then implemented. This sub-component will
involve a large input of IPLAN staff which is to devote 138
man-months to this effort. The use of 25 man-months of
consulting services to be financed by the Bank, is envisaged
for this task.
52.       IPLAN and SOF are to study jointly with sector specialists the
most practical way to monitor the implementation of key activities and
projects financed from budgetary resources and/or by public sector
borrowings. The sub-component would involve three steps: (i) an analysis
of existing monitoring systems and their shortcomings; (ii) a definition of
the data on implementation needed for improved planning, budgeting and
expenditure control; and (iii) guidelines for project monitoring which
would serve both SEPLAN, the Finance Ministry and the Sector Ministries and
executing agencies. The subcomponent, to be carried out in about 15
months, will require a substantial input of staff by IPLAN and SOF staff as
well as 12 man months of consulting services.
53.       IPLAN, through its Center for Social Policy (CNRH) is to carry
out evaluations of social programs and projects. This sub-component is to
comprise the following: (a) nation-wide sample studies, to be carried out
with the assistance of IBGE, to evaluate the effectiveness of the national
school lunch program, the system of retail food outlets, established by
COBAL, primary health care through local health posts, the
Chagas disease control program, sanitary control in ports and airports,
some urban housing and infrastructure projects, as well as the construction



- 18 -
and rehabilitatior. of primary schools, jails and local police stations; and
(b) a major effort to evaluate, with the help of local and international
consultants, the Government's employment programs. These evaluations have
as their main objective to assess the effectiveness of these programs from
the point of view of the intended beneficiaries. They are to be carried
out in close collaboration with the executing agencies. The results of
these studies are to form the basis of a comprehensive study on better
methods of designing, implementing and evaluating social projects. The
program will require an estimated 112 man months of consultant services to
be financed from the proposed Bank loan.'
Improving Budget Planning
54.       SOF, the Federal Budget Secretariat, has prepared this project
component, which would involve 3% of project costs. It would provide
technical assistance for: (a) the review and improvement of current
budgetary practices at the Federal level. This would involve a study of
the methods used in preparing revenue estimates, as well as in preparing
and analyzing the budget proposals by the budgetary units, the Sector
Ministries and SOF. On the basis of the review, which would also cover
budget legislation, a far-reaching reform of the existing budgetary system
is to be proposed. Financing to help implement the new system, including
training of the personnel involved, is included in the proposal, which is
to be carried out over an 18 months' period by a large task force of SOF
and Sector Ministry staff with the assistance of 60 man months of
consultant services; (b) the formulation of appropriate procedures for the
review by SOF of the budgetary requests of decentralized entities
(institutes, foundations and autarquies), whose budgets have recently been
reincorporated in the Federal budget with the understanding that these
agencies require a more flexible form of budgetary control. This portion
of the proposed project component would require 15 man months of consultant
services; and (c) an on-the-job training program to familiarize SOF/INOR
staff as well as the personnel of Sector Ministry budget offices, etc.,
with the new procedures for budget preparation and review and the
processing of budget requests submitted by autonomous entities. The
training program, to be carried out during the second year of project
implementation, will involve 38 man months of consulting services.
Training
55.       CENDEC, SEPL-A's training agency has prepared this project
component, designed to support SEPLAN's efforts to strengthen management
systems through training programs for the staff of SEPLAN and its agencies
and the planning staff of other ministries. The proposed training
component which was prepared in close collaboration with the other units of
SEPLAN involved in the project, would account for 6% of total project
costs. It would provide courses and seminars in economic and social
planning, sector and project analysis, public sector budgeting, information
systems, social sector program design and delivery and administrative
reform. A total of 43 courses or seminars, involving 1,700 participants
over a three-year period, is planned. The project would also enable CENDEC
to strengthen its institutional capacity over the medium term by financing



- 19 -
improvements in infrastructure (including library facilities, audio-visual
and information systems equipment) development of training materials,
studies in training and staff development. The latter would be supported
by scholarship and fellowships for training both in Brazil and abroad. The
proposed project component is estimated to require 79 man months of
consulting services as well as the contracting of lecturers, since CENDEC
itself has a very small permanent staff whose main function is the
planning, coordination and supervision of training activities.
Expanding Economic and Social Research
56.       INPES, the research arm of SEPLAN, has prepared a project
component (expected to account for 4X of total project costs) which focuses
on: (a) the establishment of a system of indicators to be used in
short-term forecasting of key economic variables, especially those
affecting the principal public sector accounts; (b) macro-economic analysis
and modeling aimed at improving INPES capacity for long-term assessment of
the likely public sector deficit and external debt profile and for the
analysis of alternative public policies; and (c) deeper and more
disaggregated research into allocative and distributional issues,
especially in the fields of energy and social security. The foregoing
studies would be carried out over a two-year period by INPES staff with the
assistance of 60 man months of consulting services to be financed by the
Bank. In addition, a program of economic and social studies, to be carried
out by universities, research institutions and consultants, would be
managed in the way successfully developed and financed by the Bank under
the program of studies of Industrial and Trade Policies (Loan 2347-BR),
with INPES as the Secretariat and a steering committee, comprising
representatives of of SEPLAN and other ministries and institutions. The
suggested studies are in the areas of social policy financing, the role of
publicly-owned productive'enterprises, as well as critical aspects of
Brazil's stabilization efforts and their relation to renewed economic
growth. Nine separate studies are planned, with Bank support amounting to
US$625,000.
57.       The program of industrial and trade policy studies would be
continued following the full commitment of the funds allocated for the
purpose in Loan 2347-BR. US$600,000 would be allocated within the loan for
these studies. The suggested focus is on: (a) the analysis of the
competitiveness of selected manufacturing subsectors and the possible need
for modernization and restructuring; (b) the present situation of
industrial subsectors with respect to the use of installed capacity and the
need for new investment; (c) ways to foster the development of long-term
capital markets; and (d) follow-up work on the ongoing studies of effective
protection and incentives. More generally, the studies would address
issues of high priority to the Government, as determined in discussions
with SEPLAN. A total of 12 such studies would be financed.
Public Administration Studies Program
58.       The Secretary General's Office of SEPLAN has prepared this
project component which would account for 3% of project costs.  It would
consist of a program of studies designed to provide a more solid basis for



- 20 -
the formulation of major public policies, which is to be carried out over a
period of four years and will involve 216 man months of consultants'
services. The program would cover, inter alia, the following major topics:
(a) a study of previous Brazilian and foreign administrative reform efforts
with a view to formulating an effective way to assess the results of the
reform; (b) an analysi3 evaluating Brazilian and foreign experience with
the use of computerized information systems in the public sector, with
special focus on the impact of micro-computers on the working methods and
efficiency of some "typical" public sector entities; (c) a study of
personnel policy options which would complement the work of the
Administrative Reform subgroup which is studying the reorganization of
personnel administration. The study would focus on the effects of
different personnel policies on institutional performance and outline a
strategy for implementing the policies which will result from the
administrative reform effort; and (d) a study of the implications of
greater decentralization of both revenues and functional responsibilities
from the Federal Government to the states and municipalities, which is a
key objective of Administrative Reform; the study would describe the way in
which functional responsibilities are currently distributed between the
three levels of government, evaluate  various proposals for greater
decentralization and attempt to define criteria for a more appropriate
allocation of major public sector functions. The proposed project
component also envisages a study designed to support Government efforts to
sponsor more and better training programs in public administration in
selected universities and specialized institutions. The six-month study,
to be carried out by two consultants, would analyze existing graduate
programs and propose appropriate curricula for the training of various
levels of public administrators. In total, eight major studies would be
financed.
State Enterprises
59.       The state enterprise (SEST) component of the project has three
major objectives which will together account for an estimated 23% of total
project costs. The first of these objectives is to implement a system for
performance evaluation of the state productive enterprises; the second, to
develop and implement state productive enterprise rehabilitation programs
designed to put troubled enterprises in a sound financial and operational
position, with a view, inter alia, to privatizing some of them; the third
is to strengthen SEST's own capacity to oversee state productive -
enterprises and in particular their investment and financing programs.



- 21 -
60.       Performance Evaluation.  SEST is in the process of developing a
comprehensive system for the evaluation of the performance of state
enterprises in productive sectors, as a key element in a more flexible,
longer-term approach to state enterprise supervision. The system will
provide a range of information on four aspects of performance: efficiency,
efficacy, managerial appioaches and the enterprise's adaptability to
changing circumstances. SEST has begun to implement one component of this
system: a model for eval-ation of business performance (MADE) which
evaluates financial performance based on the enterprise accounts and the
productivity of the enterprise. SEST staff are already undergoing training
in MADE, but to implement the system fully, staff from the planning and
financial divisions of each state enterprise will also need to be trained.
The project will support this activity by financing the cost of 20
full-time, four week courses with 30 trainees per course, or 600 in total.
61.       Rehabilitation Programs.  On the basis of 1984 performance, SEST
has divided the main productive state enterprises into three groups: those
with operating deficits; those with operating surpluses but unable to
finance their debt service; and those still having surpluses after
financing their debt service. The Government's goal is to move enterprises
gradually out of the poor performance groups into the following three
categories: state enterprises operating profitably wholly within the
public sector; state enterprises to to be sold to the private sector,
merged with a similar enterprise, liquidated, or turned into a Government
department; and state enterprises selling up to 49% of their voting shares
to the private sector.
62.       SEST aims to develop a total of 30 rehabilitation programs for
enterprises with the most pressing needs, using their financing
requirements as leverage for introducing operational and managerial
reforms. A team will be constituted for each enterprise to be
rehabilitated, consisting of a SEST representative (head of the teams), a
SEPLAN sector planning coordinator, representatives of the holding company,
the Sector Ministry, the enterprise staff, and a group of outside
consultants and auditors. The consultants will determine the enterprise's
financing needs, diagnose all aspects of the enterprise's situation,
propose improvements in internal operations ard the external, e.g.,
pricing, environment, so that the entire team can prepare a one-to-three
year rehabilitation program for the enterprise that will specify: (a) the
capital needed by the enterprise in order to put it on a financially sound
footing; (b) the necessary managerial and operational improvements, ranked
according to their priorities; and (c) the Government actions required to
achieve the rehabilitation targets, including price increases. It is
expected that some of the rehabilitation programs will form the basis for
loan agreements between Brazil and multi-lateral or foreign commercial
banks. Rehabilitated firms may be wholly or partially privatized.
63.       The proposed Bank loan would support the rehabilitation programs
by financing part of the cost of teams of private auditors or management
consultants for initial reconnaisance missions, diagnostic audits,
evaluations and the cost of technical assistance and training to assist the



- 22 -
firms in implementing the rehabilitation programs. It would also finance
90 man months of long-tenm consultant services to assist SEST in managing
the rehabilitation program. The cost of audits will vary with the size of
the state enterprise and the extent of its problems but are expected to
average US$150,000. The loan would finance audits of the 30 state
enterprises at an average cost of US$150,000 each, and part of the
follow-up technical assistance to 10 of them, as well as the consultants
for SEST.
Information Systems
64.       This project component, designed to strengthen the whole of the
rnational statistical system and the capacity and efficiency of IBGE as the
organization mainly responsible for this system, would account for 31X of
total project costs. The Ministry of Planning attaches special importance
to the development of national and regional statistics as the basis for
planning and management. The planned size of the development program makes
it impractical for SEPIAN to finance internally, and the need for external
support could not be met from external technical assistance sources (which
are now limited for Brazil) other than the Bank. New, able IBGE management
and planning, supporting SEPLAN's other priorities, provides the best
opportunity in years for Brazil co develop statistical systems adequate to
the large public sector management requirements and the need for informed
discussions on econcmic, social and regional policies. IBGE's already
large and sophisticated operations make the development program primarily
an investment in organization and management rather than expansion. Such
investment in the IBGE system should be expected to yield substantial
benefits.
65.       The loan would finance approximately 200 man months of consultant
services and training and imported equipment for IBGE's six directorates,
which cover e_onomic statistics, social and demographic data, agricultural
and environmental statistics, regional statistics, the cartographic base
which supports this regional activity and training and methodological
development. Loan funds would also support the establishment of two new
regional offices in two rapidly developing areas (Amazonas and Mato
Grosso), and provide for part of IBGE's non-computer equipment needs.
Among the specific development projects are the improvement of registers of
manufacturing and other establishments and annual production statistics,
two basic building blocks of an improved system; improvement of key
economic indicators such as the consumer price and industrial production
indexes; development of sample survey techniques and applications; the
strengthening of regional offices to serve state and municipal information
needs; and basic work on national accounts, centering on the completion of
a new input-output table.
66.       Complementing the IBGE program, the project includes provision
for strengthening the operations of the National Accounts and Fiscal
Studies Centers of the Fundacao Getulio Vargas, which has the
responsibility for the preparation and publication of Brazil's official
national accounts. This component, involving 2% of project costs, stresses
improvements in methodology, technical training, research and additional
data collection, with special reference to the production and investment



- 23 -
accounts of the public sector in Brazil, at national and regional levels
and including the operations of state enterprises. The loan component
would finance 30 man months of consultants and other support for research.
This program will be coordinated with the work of IBGE.
The Ministry of Finance
67.       There are four components included in the Ministry of Finance
share of the proposed project, together accounting for about 15% of project
costs. The most important of these is designed to support the operations
of its newly created National Treasury Secretariat (STN), which will have
the responsibility of managing the whole of the now unified Federal
Government Budget. To be fully effective, the STN must establish a new
system capable of managing and monitoring efficiently the flow of all
Federal funds, from the approval and authorization stages through the
detailed expenditure process to the stage of monitoring and control. The
system must provide timely information, on at least a monthly basis, both
on aggregate expenditure categories and on detailed expenditures by
program, purpose and functional responsibility. The existing system
provides such information only after excessive delays, except for
Government expenditure totals obtained through the Central Bank. It
involves the operation of 3,700 accounts at the Bank of Brazil, the
Government trading bank, holding an average of US$150 million equivalent in
Government funds and subject to a management fee on transactions. The
proposed new system could largely eliminate both the delays and transaction
costs. It depends on the installation of a large computer-based
information system, and the consultant services, and management and
operational training required to make this work effective.
68.       The new system would be used to control a budgetary cycle which
begins with the preparation of the Federal Budget by SOF, the Budget
Secretariat within SEPLAN, on the basis of submissions by sector ministries
which are in turn based on proposals by some 2,600 UGs, or budget
management units. Once Congress approves the Federal Budget, the UGS
prepare commitment requests which, coordinated by sector ministries, are
presented as a monthly financial program to the Financial Programming
Commission (CPF). The STN will be the executive secretariat for the
commission. Once CPF gives its approval to the ministries, UGs are
authorized to claim on the 3,700 accounts in the Bank of Brazil. The
control functions are exercised by regional accounting agencies, and sector
statements are drawu up by sector internal control secretariats (CISETs)
and overall by the central control organization, formerly SECIN and now the
National Treasury Secretariat. The system lends itself to modernization
and, specifically, to computer-based management, through which large
savings in time and resources are anticipated. One major gain will be that
the Government will have at its disposal, on a much more timely basis, the
informaticn required to manage all categories of sectoral expenditure much
more efficiently. A second is that the major categories of expenditure
transferred from the 'monetary' budget, including official credit programs,
subsidy payments and Government debt transactions, can also be brought
within the new system thus stzengthening the capacity of the Ministry of
Finance to manage public sector funds as a whole. A third is the
opportunity the project will provide for the amalgamation of accounts in
the Bank of Brazil into a unified Treasury account.



- 24 -
69.       The proposed loan would provide for about 35 months of consultant
services, individual or through consultant firms, to assist systems design,
management development and training arrangements. The success of the new
system will depend heavily on the introductory training given to managers
as well as technical staff at all levels down to the 2,600 budgetary units
needed in a budget mechanism as large and diverse as that of Brazil. For
this reason, the proposed loan would finance part of the large-scale
training program required. This program can be fully developed only when
decisions are reached on the detailed implementation plan for the system.
The proposed loan agreement provides for a training program to be prepared
and furnished to the Bank not later than March 31, 1987. It is probable
that the full system will take at least two years to implement fully,
although the Government intends to introduce the main elements no later
than January 2, 1987. Implementation processes will, however, provide the
opportunity to study the system at each level and to implement,
progressively, changes which should result in better programming,
budgeting, expenditure and expenditure control throughout the Federal
Government.
70.       In addition, the proposed loan would support the establishment
within the STN of a special unit responsible for supervision of the
auditing requirements for entities and programs involving international
organizations, including the Bank, and for special audits requested by the
President of the Republic. This special staff of 20 auditors, to be
increased to 30 in due course, would coordinate the audits of Federal
Government projects supported by the Bank whether undertaken by STN itself,
by State tribunals of accounts or by private firms. The proposed loan
would provide for specialized training in public sector auditing methods
for this central group of audit staff.
71.       In a broader effort to strengthen official auditing capabilities
at Federal, State and major municipal levels, the Ministry of Finance has
also undertaken to support a training program, to be financed partly by the
proposed loan, for 150 auditors of the Tribunal de Contas da Uniao (the
Federal tribunal of accounts which is part of the legislative arm of
Government, and responsible to it rather than the executive), a number of
the State accounting tribunals and certain municipal tribunals, each of
which has responsibilities, inter alia, for the auditing of Bank-financed
projects and programs. An "advanced training program in Government
auditing" would concentrate on the introduction at the highest levels of
modern audit standards and methods, financial reporting and related
disciplines for the public sector. This project component, involving about
5% of project costs, is considered especially significant in terms of
establishing fully responsible and independent reporting on public sector
manrugement.
72.       The fourth component concerns the administration of assets of the
Government and specifically those administered by the Servico do Patrimonio
da Uniao (the Government assets administration) of the Ministry of
Finance. There are some 600,000 properties involved, 500,000 along the
6,500 km of Brazil's coast-line and the rest in other locations, each
providing small and historically-determined revenue to the Government, for



- 25 -
a total of only US$4 million equivalent in 1985. The potential for
increased revenues is very large, but depends on surveys, extensive work on
the registers, and the introduction of data processing systems to support a
new approach. The proposed loan would finance about 20 months of
consultant services for the development of the proposals, and a pilot
project to test the application of recommended methods of increasing
revenues from this source.
Public Sector Investment Programs
73.       The strengthening of SEPLAN's planning, budgeting, and state
enterprise supervision systems, which are among the main project
objectives, will help to restore and reinforce the capacity to prepare,
implement and evaluate multi-year public sector investment programs. Such
investment programs, prepared annually for a period of 3 to 4 years ahead,
were formulated in 1982 and 1983 but not thereafter. The project provides
for them to be re-established. The Bank has a special interest in
supporting this process. It is currently engaged with the Government in a
review of Brazil's public sector investment program for 1986-89 which is
nearing completion.
74.       In the course of preparing and negotiating arrangements for the
proposed loan, it was agreed between the Government and the Bank that an
arrangement for an annual exchange of views on Brazil's public sector
investment programs would be appropriate within the context of the
project. Accordingly, the loan agreement provides for the Government to
prepare, on a yearly basis, in 1987, 1988 and 1989, a report on (i) its
multi-annual Federal public sector investment program for the following
three years, including public enterprise investment; and (ii) the execution
of the investment program of the public sector during the previous fiscal
year. This report is to be the basis of an annual exchange of views
between the Government ana the Bank on the specified investment programs.
The timing of the reports and subsequent discussions will be determined
annually on the basis of Brazilian executive and legislative timetables.
The Bank will prepare its own assessment, based upon the Government report
and related information. Such assessment could be made available by the
Government to interested third parties (for instance commercial Banks).
Project Costs and Financing
75.       Total project costs are estimated at US$58.5 million, of which
US$11.6 million represents direct requirements for foreign exchange (see
Annex IV for detailed project cost tables). This includes an amount of
US$4.5 million (US$2.2 million of the proposed loan) or 9X of base costs to
cover physical contingencies for equipment as well as unforeseen additional
consultant services for the activities described. Price contingencies of
about 9% are based on estimated cost increases, principally for consultant
and training services, over a 3-year contracting period. The proposed Bank
loan of US$29.0 million would cover 49% of total project costs. It would
finance all foreign exchange costs as well as 37% of estimated local
costs. The balance of local costs would be covered by the Federal
Government, public enterprises, Government and private institutions and
official audit entities. The Government would also be responsible for
covering local taxes and the cost of microcomputers and related equipment
produced in Brazil, which are not included in the project's costs.



- 26 -
76.       The proposed Bank loan would finance the costs of international
and Brazilian consultants, the associated per diems and travel costs,
overseas and some local training costs, and the cost of a small number of
analysts and special research staff. The Bank would also finance
specialized imported cartographic and computer equipment for IBGE and some
other equipment items, and in addition a part of IBGE's construction
program in developing regions. Construction would comprise 3% of the loan
amount and equipment 15%. Costs of international and Brazilian consultants
services have been estimated on the basis of prices for first class
management, economic and financial consultants quot&ed at the end of 1985.
Project Organization, Management and Administration
77.       All activities financed under the loan will be managed and
administered either by the Ministry of Planning or the Ministry of Finance,
with the loan agreement specifying the respective interests and
responsibilities of each Ministry.
Ministry of Planning Compbnents
78.       The Ministry of Planning (SEPLAN) has designated a senior
official, fully acceptable to the Bank, who will serve as SEPLAN Project
Manager, a post that will be maintained for the full project execution
period. Together with the necessary support staff, now being selected, he
will manage and administer all SEPLAN-related activities and will report on
the findings and recommendations of the consultants to the Secretary
General of SEPLAN to ensure that maximum consideration and support is given
to follow-up and implementation. To facilitate this process, the Project
Manager will prepare reports every six months for the Secretary-General and
the Bank summarizing the progress of each SEPLAN-managed component.
79.       In addition, the Project Manager will serve as principal point of
contact between the Bank and each executing agency for the Ministry of
Planning components. This Project Manager will be responsible for ensuring
that the necessary consultation is maintained between appropriate officials
of the executing agency and the Bank on items such as terms of reference,
contracting and payment of consultants and procurement of goods. General
terms of reference for each component have been prepared. Detailed terms
of reference for each type of consultancy to be financed during the first
year of project operation are being finalized.
80.       The Project Manager will ensure the complementarity of the
technical assistance financed under the loan with the assistance financed
from other sources and will take the lead in indentifying and solving
problems during project implementation. In consultation with the Bank he
will also decide on the merits of requests for changes within project
components during project implementation and for new or expanded assistance
to be financed from the loan's unallocated component, to ensure they are in
keeping with the project's objectives.



- 27 -
81.       Each executing agency will appoint a coordinator for its project
component who will be responsible for drafting terms of reference,
selecting consultants, supervising and evaluating their work, ensuring that
maximum consideration is given to acting on the the consultants'
recommendations, and training and equipment provisions. To facilitate the
project, the Component Cdordinator will also prepare progress reports every
six months for the management of his agency. These reports will record,
inter alia, the main findings and recommendations of the consultants,
actions to be taken and problems to be solved. They will be copied to the
Project Manager and the Bank. These coordinators have now been selected.
These posts will be maintained for the entire project execution period.
Formal appointment of the SEPLAN Project Manager, and of the coordinators,
is a condition of effectiveness.
82.       The bulk of the consultant work is expected to be completed by
the end of 1989, although some final reports and training would continue
into 1990. Procurement of equipment to be financed through the loan should
be completed by mid-1989. A detailed implementation schedule is provided
in Annex V.
83.       Because of their extensive experience in contracting consultants
and utilizing funds from the "Special Account", all contracts for national
consultants will be entered into through IBGE, SEST or IPEA. The latter
will contract on behalf of IPLAN, CENDEC, SOF, INPES and the FGV. To
maintain financial control and accurate financial records, requests from
the executing agencies for loan withdrawals will be channeJed through the
office of the Project Manager. The Government would enter into formal
agreements with IPEA, IBGE and FGV for the implementation of the project.
Conclusion of these agreements in a condition of disbursement for the
respective loan components. In addition, there is to be a cooperation
agreement between IBGE and FGV relating to the statistical components of
the project. Conclusion of this agreement is a further condition of
disbursement of loan proceeds to FGV. Equipment and construction
contracting would be the responsibility of the IBGE coordinator under the
supervision of the Project Manager.
84.        In view of administrative difficulties in contracting and paying
international consultants, the Government has indicated its intention to
employ UNDP's Office for Projects Execution (OPE) to act as contracting
agent for foreign consultancy and training expenditures. SEPLAN would
retain responsibility for ensuring that contracting follows Bank
guidelines. The Government and the Bank would retain responsibility for
substantive supervision. Agreement on the appointment of the UNDP as the
international contracting agent was obtained at negotiations. SEPLAN would
sign the agreement with UNDP or another international contracting agent as
a condition of loan effectiveness. Consideration is also being given to
requesting assistance from UNDP in the identification of suitable
international consultants for selected components and provision of advisory
services to the Project Manager during project implementation. The
advisory services would be financed entirely from a UNDP grant. Questions
of cost-sharing arrangements with UNDP are being considered by the
Government.



- 28                 -
Ministry of Finance Components
85.        Arrangements similar to those described above for SEPLAN have
also been agreed upon. A Ministry of Finance Project Manager equally
acceptable to the Bank has been designated, and will be responsible for
coordinating the implementation of the components described in paras. 67-72
above. The office of the Project Manager will, inter alia, prepare: (a)
proposals, timetables and terms of reference for consultant services for
the STN budget information and control component; (b) the training program
for the full implementation of the new STN system; and (c) periodic reports
on the implementation of the Ministry of Finance components. The training
program is to be prepared and furnished to the Bank not later than March
31, 1987. Coordinators will be appointed for each project component for
which the Ministry of Finance has responsibility. Appointment of the
Project Manager and coordinators is a condition of effectiveness. The
conclusion of an agreement between the Government and the TCU, with respect
to the auditing training program for Federal, State and Municipal audit
staff, is a condition of disbursement for this component of the proposed
loan.
Procurement and Disbursement
86.        The main expenditures to be financed are for consultant
services. Contracting of consultants would be in accordance with the
Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants" with which the
administrators of IBGE, SEST and IPEA are familiar. It is estimated that
75-80% of consultant services would be Brazilian. Procurement of imported
components to be financed under the loan will be in accordance with Bank
policies. Procurement of the .pecialized IBGE equipment items would be
made through international shopping which is the most suitable method for
this type of item. Other equipment would be procured through ICB
procedures according to Bank guidelines. Small equipment and material
items estimated to cost US$50,000 or less, up to an aggregate amount not
exceeding US$1.0 million, would be procured on the basis of local
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
87.       Commitment of loan funds is expected to require about three years
and disbursement up to four years. The Bank loan would disburse: (i) 100%
of the costs of consultant and associated services; (ii) 100% of the
expenditures for directly imported equipment and 85% for locally purchased
equipme.t and works; and (iii) 100% of expenditures for training and
observation visits. The project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1990; the closing date would be December 31, 1990.
88.       In order to facilitate disbursements, a Specia.L Account would be
set up for the payment of most project costs financed by the Bank. The
Bank would advance up to US$1.5 million to the Account (equivalent to about
four months of project expenses other than for imported equipment and the
foreign consultancy and training to be contracted through UNDP or another
international agent). Once the loan becomes effective, the Bank would be
repaid any amounts disbursed under the Project Preparation Facility for up
to US$600,000 made available by the Bank, at Government request, on April
5, 1986, to finance urgent preparatory and start-up consultant costs fcr



- 29 -
the state enterprise (SEST) component of the proposed project. In
addition, up to US$250,000 would be considered for retroactive financing of
other project components, for designated project expenditures incurred on
or after April 1, 1986.
Project Benefits and Risks
89.       The proposed project would benefit Brazil by strengthening
planning and management capacities in the two key economic ministries,
SEPLAN and the Ministry of Finance. It is expected by the Government and
the Bank to result in more effective and integrated research, policy
development, sector and project analysis, multi-year investment planning
and program monitoring, budget planning, and national and regional
statistical services. It should reinforce current efforts by the
Government to increase efficiency in the use of resources available to the
public sector. This is a potential benefit especially of the Ministry of
Finance component, within which the new National Treasury Secretariat will
be responsible for major improvements in present systems of Federal Budget
financial programming, disbursements, and expenditure control. The
development of modern audit capabilities within the Government and in
Federal, State and major municipal tribunals of accounts is a further
project component of importance to Brazil.
90.       Because of the central position and responsibilities of the two
ministries, project implementation should have positive effects on resource
management throughout the Federal public sector. This includes the Federal
enterprise sector which, through the SEST component, would be subject to
performance evaluation and, in the case of 30 of the enterprises, would be
also assisted through the development and in some cases implementation of
rehabilitation programs. One project component includes support for
administrative reform, including personnel management, the potential for
increased use of information technology, and planned decentralization of
Federal Government functions to the States, municipalities and the private
sector. While the potential benefits of the project cannot be quantified,
they are expected to be substantial in terms of efficiency in public sector
management and public funds saved or more effectively used.
91.       The risks inherent in such a large and diverse public sector
management initiative should not be under-estimated. Successful project
implementation will require the continuing commitment of Bank supervisory
staff as well as of Brazilian managers and staff in several separate
through related implementing agencies. The Government is, however, firmly
committed to the program of improvement in public sector management, as an
integral component of its strategy for economic growth and social
development. Recent Government measures demonstrate both the willingness
to undertake necessary reforms and the ability to implement them. Bank
staff have formed a high opinion of the quality and thoroughness of
Brazilian preparations for the project, and of the ability and dedication
of those who will be responsible for project management. Although the
project has a number of distinct components, all are within SEPLAN or the
Ministry of Finance, or in agencies directly connected with them. This
will assist project coordination and control. Bank staff will continue to



- 30 -
work closely with SEPLAN and the Ministry of Finance in much of the Bank's
economic and sector work on Brazil. In performing such work, Bank staff
will also be helping the Government to ensure a proper implementation of
the proposed project. On balance, project implementation should be
expected to reinforce, over the next 3-4 years, the Government's efforts to
manage the public sector well.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
92.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 29, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-31-                                                     ANN  I
Page 1 of 7
a (war u.r ne
igeom~~ 117k=       m         LT AD CD   A            Z      RF
mm (TIOllms@  IQ7 meuc u 
TOTAL                            3312.0      1312.0      3512.0
WUGCULUNM                        1636.4      131.2      2376.7
or PE CWtU (g)                                      .0.0                      1875.9                   21".3
(XLOtRAua  oF OIL IQuzVAzar)      264.0       412.0      740.0               93.6                   11 19.
pomA nJW    S IUL gT  _w
POFVLAIIH0.NtD-VEAR (1IIR, 56a)   725.0      3847.0    19662.0
NI POPJLAION  E 0 TOTAL)          44.9        53.6        70.7              67.7                     47.5
POPULATIG PPOAJCZOUI
POPUI.ATI  IN  EA2000 a  Loo ) a11a.
UTAIIUU tPOPULION (MILL)                                29U.0
nOuurAU  MOIU                                             1.8
POPULAII ON  hlIl
n  SQ. at.                         u.s       11.3        15.2              43.0                     34.7
PE  SQ. m.  U1. LAND             #4.4        43.4        53.4              91.1                    66.1
POPULATION ASI 3IRUOTUR CR)
0-14 us                         43.5        42.6        37.2              33.5                     31.2
1-4 Y3U                          534         54.2        33.7              57.1                     61.5
63 AND A03                         2.6        3.0         4.0               4.2                      7.2
POPULATION GC0W LNa (C)
OTIL                               3.1        2.3         2.3               2.                       1.6
O3MAN                              5.7        5.0         4.0               3.6                      3.7
GROOM RIxflE am  CE TR60S)         42.7        35.0        30.3              30.9                     23.4
CRUDER    RAE (PE   600S)           12.1       10.3         3.2               3.0                      3.9
GRS RNROOOCTIO  RATE                3.0         2.4         1.9               2.0                      1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
A,P3. SEIAL (TNOS)                 ..       111.0
3 ( OF MANKID    3)                ..         ..         50.0              43.3.
163 0  MM PO. PM  CAIPIA
(1969-71-100)                      69.0       102.0       130.0             109.6                    109.1
in c. SUPPLY or
cacan (Zo 07uz_     mmus)        101.0      103.0       111.0             113.2                    131.5
PTEIS (GRAN PM DAT)              60.0        60.0        64.0              69.4                     92.4
of  nCII ANDUL -  11.3S          35.0       34.0        36.0 Lc           34.2                     34.5
WILD (AS 1-4)  DAT NM               16.2       11.8        6.0                4.8                      4.7
LIM cEECr. AT 9UIN (Cus)           54.7        58.9        63.7              64.3                     67.2
DIVANT MM. NE (1312W0US)           115.5       95.5       70.0               59.1                     53.3
AccRs To sn  WATE Cliff)
TAL                               ..         35.0        71.0 4            65.3                     7002
133*1                              ..        78.0        W0.0              76.5                     89.4
RURAL                             ..         26.0       51.0               44 ".2                   57.0
ACceSS TO  ETA   OTSOSAL
(C or  ULO)
TOTAL                              ..       53.0         64.3 /a           56.3                     59.6
U3a                                ..        35.0       33.7               73.6                     65.9
U.AL                                         24.0        31.711            25.5                     47.6
POPLATIOI PER PSICI              2210.0      2130.0         ..             1909.7                   1070.6
PrO. PER NIUR SN11                28o10.0    1120.0         ..              301.2                    769.5
POP. PUR IIDSPr1*L aC
TOTAL                            310.0      270.0       250.014           362.0                    328.3
U3a                             250.0       320.0         ..              422.0                    201.9
A..                                           ..          ..             2716.7                   4519.7
ADMIIIS S  HOSPITrAL NJ             ..         1.4          ..               27.5                     20.0
AVERACE sn OF HOUSMLD
TOTAL                             5.1         4.3        4.9 /a
U                                  ..         4.6        4.7                .
RURAL                              ..         5.2        3.3..
AvuD   Na. or PERONlS/X
TOrAL                              *-         1.1
URBAN                            ..           1.0
RUIUA                             ..          1.2
PERCENTAE OF ONELLIE  VM  ELECT.
TorAL                            38.7        47.6 64.4 d.
URA                                ..          .s       80.5 7&...
Ana.                                          8.4        20-6A [             ..



- 32 -                                                   ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
RRAZIL                 - SOCIAL INDICATOUS DATA SNtET
BRAZIL                              RSnRUC GROUPnS (VEGUTD AVERAES) /a
MOST                     (MOST uECENT ISTEMATE) jb
1960ib  97aLR CUigT            MIDDLE INCOSE          MIDDL IINCOSU
g9STZiATEl      LAT. AKCRICA & CAR           EUROPE
NOWAIOU
ADJUSTED INROLLMINT RATXOS
PRIMARYt  TOTAL                  95.0        64.0       96.0 .t           106.7                    101.9
MALE                  97.0        84.0       9g.0              108.5                    106.2
FEMALE                93.0        84.0        93.o 7           104.6                     97.5
SECONDAR:t TOTAL                 11.0        26.0       32.0 /f           44.2                     57.5
KAU.                   11.0       26.0        29.0 4j,.         *2.7                     64.9
rFEALE                10.0        27.0        35.0              44.9                     50.0
VOCATIONAL CX or SECONDAT)          0.0         0.0        0.1 {             13.'                     21.0
PUPXL-TEAOR RATIO
PRIKARY                          33.0        28.0       26.0 /h            29.9                     25.1
SECONDARY                        13.0        12.0        14.0r             16.7                     19.1
PASSENGER CARSITTHUSAND Por         7.6        16.6       46.9 Id            46.0                     54.2
RADXIO *EXVERSITHOUSAND POP        65.4       108.4      354.9              3Z8.3                    170.7
TV RECEIVZRS/THOUSAND POP          16.5        44.3       122.2             112.4                    149.3
NEISPAR  ("DALY GCIAL
XNTERES) CIRCELATION
PER TOUSAMD POPULATION            52.9        35.6       43.0 /h            81.1                     97.0
CXNEMA AININUL ATIEICZ/CAPXTA       4.4         2.0         1.1               2.4                      2.7
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (T110US)      23326.0    30411.0    43736.0
FMA  (PERCET)                    17.2        20.1        23.5              23.6                     36.3
AXRICULTIIRI (PERCECT)           51.9        45.6        29.9 /d           31.4                     40.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               14.8        18.3       24.4 7d            24.3                     23.3
PARTICIPATXON RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            32.1        31.7        33.7              33.5                     43.1
MALE                             52.7        50.3        51.6              51.3                     55.1
FEMALE                           11.2        12.8        15.6              15.9                     31.4
E!ONlOMC DCPENZICZ RATIO            I *         1.4        1.2                1.3                      0.9
DED   D     XSEIIT
PERCENT OF PRIVATE DICON
RECEIVED ST
IGIET  5S OF DOUWLDS              ..
RIGET 20 OF HOWSUOLDS           60.0        63.5
LOWEST 20S OF lIIWQSELDS          3.8         3.2
LOWEST 40S OF HOUSEOLDS          10.8         9.0
POVERT ZAGfGOP
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY II
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPTA
URBAN                             ..          ..          ..              26.3
RURAL                             ..          ..        150.0 /           185.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVEFRY INCOHE
LEMVL (USS PER CAPITA)
URSII                             ..          ..       465.0 Ic           519.8
RAL                               ..          ..       332.07     i      i 359.7
ESTIKATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVEYRY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URBA                              .. . ..
DRUAL                             ........
NOT AVAILABE
NOT APPLICASBL
NOT E S
lo  The group averages for each indLcator are populacLoon-wigbted arithstic moans. Coverae of comatries
.aong the iadicators depends on availabllity of data and Ls not unifotu.
lb  Unles otherwie  oted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year beeen 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; ad data for "Mot Reent Etimate  between 1981 and 19i3.
/c  1977; Id 1980; 1/ 1976; If Beginiog 1973. primary and aecondary education covr a  groups 7-14 and
15-17 instead of 7-10 and  Fl17 in earLier years; therefore. mt recet e_timates are not comparable
with earler data; /& 1978; lh 1979.
JNE, 1965



33                                          ANNEX I
Page 3 of 7
DFUINmONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Naw: Althoub the data ar drawn frm sources perallyjuded thenws authorttIvec and relial It hould alm be noted that they may nol be interntimully
comparable beause of the lck of stundardized definitions and conapes used by differnt countries in collecting te data. The data afre noerthelss usful to
dscribe ordm or magnitude, indicate trend, and characterie ceruin maor differences betwen counries.
The referenee groups ar (I) the mme country group of he subject ountry nd (2) a country uroup with omewiht higher averag income than the country
group of the subjct country (xcept for "High Incom Oil Exporlnrsroup wherc MiddlIncom North Africa and MiddkEBut' ischose becuse of sronger
soca-culturd aMlnitis. In the reference group data the avweraes ar population weighted arithrmetic mn  for each indiator and hown only when majority
of the countrie In . group has data fr that indtor. Since the coverageorcountries amoWn the idiators depend on the avalability ordata and is not uniform.
caution must be excrcisd in rdating averags of one indicator to another. These avers amr only useful in comparing the value of one indicator at a time amongl
the country and reference Sraup.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                           Cru  Birth Rate (per thaud)-N umber of live births in the year
Tota-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thouand of mid-year population; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                        Chde Dath Rate (per theurand-Numnber of deaths in the year
Agricuhnral-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or    per thousand of mid-year population; 1960,1970, and 1983 data.
permnanenty for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Repr.ductnr Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow, 1960 1970 and 1982 data.                             will bear in her nornal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960, 1970, and 1983.
market prices, calulated by same conversion method as World bs  18n3iat-Aceptors, Am_ (thwsands-Annual num-
Bank Ailias ( 1981483 basis); 1983 data.                         ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite,      Fai*  Phuanln- Vseprs   cen of  were -ore)-The prcen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960, 1970, and  whose husbands are practicing any form ofcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                       of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49, although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                  groups.
Total P9pd3ti. Midd Year (tehaerands)-As of July 1; 1960, 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
Urban PopadbiOE (percent o1 total)-Ratio of urban to total       Index of FoodPAodneioa Per Cpta (1969-71 - 10)- Index of per
capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population: different definitions of urban areas may affet compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability ofrdata among countries 1960. 1970,and 1983data          include primery commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
P Ppudon Prnjeconws                                               which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in year 2000-Thc projection of population for 2000,   cxcluded); they comprise cereals. root crops, pulses, oil seeds,
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on   vegetables, fruits. nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980, these paramcters  on riational average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. ;.nd
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.               e capita Supply ofCalories ( tperct of reqiesrts -Com  put-
Staionarypopaltion-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-    ed from calorie equivalent of net food supples available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at  placement level  tion, imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rates 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights,
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                       waste at household level; 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentum-Is the tendency for population growth to     Per Capita Supply of PrAvei (umss per duy)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment evel ftom year t onward. 1985 data.                         75 gramns of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
AVulption Dentry                                                 average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.                  Per Capita Prorein Supply For AxiasuandPh-Protein  supply
Per sqkim. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 196165.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                            1970 and 1977 data.
Pbpulation Age Structare (percent)-Children (0-14 years). work-  Chid (ares 1-4) Death Rate (per theuaadJ-Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.               group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Ponsrlatiou Growth Rate (pecent)--toral-Annual growth rates of   from life tables. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 197043.      HEALTH
Popahztion Growth Rae (perceaflr)-uran--Annual growth rates      life Erptancy c Iirth (yewrs)-Numnber of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.     infant would live if prevailing patterns of monality for all people



ANNEX I
34                                         Page 4 of 7
at the time of of Its birth were to stay the same throughout Its lire:  PupIt-eher Ratio - prinary. and wawdary-Total students en-
1960, 1970uad 1983 data                                       roiled in primary and secondary lvels divided by number of
hInt Mrtaity Rat (per thukmmdI-Number or Infants who die    teachen In the corresponding levels.
berore rching one year of ae per thomnd live brths in a given
yer, 1960, 1970 and 1993 data.                                 CONSUMPTION
Acces -l to   Whys, (precut ef pepIldm-t_t4 wow, and           huseag  Car (pr thJaud papulatlms)-Pasenger cars com-
mel-Number of people (total urban, and rual) with reaonable    prise motor cars seating lem than eight persons: excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (Includes tread surface wae  or    ances, hearses and military vehicle.
untreated but unoontamnted water such    that from protected   Rado Recedea (per thousd popultlat)-All tys or reeivers
borehokes, spings nd sanitary widb) a peentae of their rpec-   for radio broadcasts to genral public per thousand of population:
ove populatonL In an urban area a public rountain or standpost  exlude un-licensed rexivers in countries and in years when
located not mor than 200 meters from a house may be considered  registrtion of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reasonable scam or that house In rural are     not be comparable since most countrie abolishd licensing.
reasonable *cac  would imply that the housewife or membm orthe
houseihold do not have to spend a disproportionte part of the day  toRgeceeubrs  per thousand popu on-TV   ivers for broadcat
in fetching the family's water neoda                           to ienl Puic per thousand popuahition; excludes unlicnsed TV
Accems o Exa Dp     (pemct of ppl )-l,  ,                       ceivers in countre  d in yea when r o         of     ts was
and rral-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by  I ect
excre  disposal as percentage of their repecidve populations.  Mwspapr Crcutin (per rhoand p.pulmtmr--Shows the aver-
Exceta disposal may indude the collecdon and disposal, with or  age ciwladon of "daily general interest newspaperi' defined as a
without treatmnent, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording genral news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be Z'dai  if it appears at least four times a week.
PopslatIo per Phpsiclaa-Population divided by number of prac-  ClIeS Aumal Afnenance per Capita per Yew-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university levd.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Populaton per Nurin Porsen-Pbpulation divided by number of     drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduatc nurses, assistant nurses
pracil nurse and nursing auxiliaries.                          LAOR FOltCE
practical nurses and nursingauxiarwe psW.                      Total Labor Fac (rhossands)-Economically active persons, in-
Poptba  per Hopt n     ed-vat ba   and - NWiation ne  duding armed forces and unemployed but exduding housewives,
(total urban, and rural) divided by their rptive number of     students, etc.. covering population of all age lDefinitions in
hospital beds available in public and private, general and spcalized  various countries are not comparable; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments
pemanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  J    (percent)-Female labor force as pcntage of total labor
iding principally custodil care are not induded. Rural hospitals,    force.
however, include health and inedical centers not permanently staffed  Agriculam  (percent)-Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical asistant, nurs, midwifc. etc.)  and fishing as percentage or total labor force; 1960, 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities                                         indusry (percestj-Labor force in mining, construction, manu-
Admissions per Hospitald-Total number of admissions to or      facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960 1970 and 1980 data.
Putic4mu(au Rate (percsfl-tera4 mak lesaJnimale-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total mald, and female labor force
Average Size of RoHas l (wsas pe haarehefd)--4oe4 urban,      as percentages of total male and female population of all ages
and mar-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively: 1960, 1970, and 1983 data. These are based on ILOas
living quarters and their main meal A boarder or ldger may or  participatCon rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population, and
may not be induded in the household for statistical purposes   long time trend. A few cstimates are from national sources
Averae Number of Permns per Rca-totaSl orban, and rral-       Ecanonic Dependency Ratio-Ratio of population under 15, and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PXereage of DwdEngs wit Electricity--tatal(  ban, and rural-  Perente of Totd Disposabl lnoe (bok in coas  and hihdj-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adsted Enr.uset Rt Rados                                      The following estimates are very approximate mneasures or poverty
Pimary school - tow), male and fanak-Gross total, male and    levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
fesak enrollment of all ages at the prinary levd as percentages of  Esimted Absobte Poerrty lacome Levl (    per captaj-amrban
respective primary schoolage populations. While many countries  and mrl-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a mininal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For somne countries with universal  Estmated Reative Porty Income Leve (USS per c*ap -rbau
education, gross enrollment may exed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural relative poverty income levd is one-third of
pupils are blow or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban kvel is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - tota. mao  adf ea -Computed as above;      living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Esmated Plop on Below Absolute Poverty Income Levd (per-
mary instrucw1on provides general, vocatbonal or teacher training    cwmt)r-rbaz ad   elrw- Percent of population (urban and rural
insuctions for pupil usualy of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are absolute poor.
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocational Einrolmne  (percent of secory)-Vocational insitu-             Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technicaL industriaL or other progrms which operate     Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departnents of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



- 35 -
A^ZRL - ag DDWmu
Fcpl.mLt-      129.7 aLUIM (atd-1593)
Pr Cmpla   Uhi,U90 (1963)
Amut
US$ NsIi  at                                                      Amml Qm           Row
OAt PdU
ladi catr                    (1964)                             Actual                                                        Proj acted
197$    1560      1981      1952       1983       4Ld         it985/    19116      W7       1568      1569      199D
Nmim AcaXz
am Douc  P ntikI              212,30D         5.6      7.2    -1.6        0.9       -3.2      4.5            8.3       6.2       7.0       7.0       7.0       7.0
biaalZiam                    24,238         2.7      6.2      6.4      -2.5         2.2      4.3           8i        2.0       4.5       4.5       4.5       4.5
3idutry                      62.72         5.3      7.9    -52          0.8      -6.8       5.9           9.0       8.0       8.5       8.5       L5        8.
SwLcm                       103,825         10.3     7.3    .0.1         1.7      -1.5       3.0           7.        6.0       6.5       6.5       6.5       6.5
O.q*1in                       165,571         8.4      3.5      0.2       3.3       -2.0      0.             8.3       4.7       5.2       6.5       6.3       6.1
CM_     _b                     3S,817        -7.0     12.1   -15.         4.2      -17.5       1.0          12.2      26.9      1L3       12.0      11.8      11.6
Cq      i ciS                  29,39         12.4     2L7      20.9      -6.4       13.6     24.9           -3.2      -1.0       5A        3.4       2.3       5.3
IR=  t GMU 116.85                            -9.6      1.8    -14        -5.2      -17.2    .8.5            -3.2      22.0       1.5      10.7       8.        9.7
Cow Naglmd SEWW                2D,818        -6.4     11.6    -16.6      -0.6       -3.4      2I6           11.7      2.3       15.0      11.3      U.1       32.6
kdam
CUP 1dfor (1970ID)                         30        2.955    5,844    11,480     3.241   90,561
td_ Data (A     , r.aSAtSS)                   8.1     57       93.1      179.5     577.0  1.846.9
Uum  of CP at ibriaL P11mm CZ)                            Am..q hnul Imm  (2)
CAL lmt Pd)                                         (Act Omt 194 PrM)
iMis      158D         5      1990/c                       197540   1954        19115659
cmD _tlc Prabct                      103.0     100.0     300.0     100.0                           6.5       O.        6.8
igrimImw                            9.2      11.0      11.5      10.1                           9.5       2.2       4.1
Tm.u                                31.1      28.8       9.8      32.1                           4.6      -03        8.4
SwIM                                43.6      44.8      48.7      47.8                           7.8       1.3       8.4
76.6      81.3      780       74D                           7IJ       -1.8       5.8
bV 27.3                                    21.1      17.0      36.0                           2.8      4.2       13.7
Q5I t miS                              7.5       8.8      12.5      10.4                           6.4      14.5       3.2
huwort  Ms                            11.4      11.2       7.4       8.7                          -L3       -1.8       9.3
k_a Nlm1 Sgw                          2L.1      16.1       7.1      23.0                          -1.6      -4.5      14.3
A ofZ of OP
(At  =QX QVd= Pdo)
P.*1C vAs   (Cugul Gwar.z)                               190      1975    1979   1580/' 19811   582/x
wmmt tkm                                                 16.6      9.     2D0.8    20.1   IB.9    21.2
-Uftl          u                                         14.4     15.8    17.6   19.8    23.2    25.4
Suphu (+) or kz  C-)                                      2.2      4.0     3.2     0.3    -L4    -4.2
E1ta1     1lh                                             2.6      3.8     3.7     4.1      3.5     3.4
FlIssdg Qt)                                               0.4    -0.2      0.5     3.9      4.9     7.6
-cSr                              1975-801965 1995690
GN (kamrd Ra  (2)                  7.0      0.5      7.3
ar Per C4m Qua'h Ra   CZ)          3.0    -L9       5.0
ipf f omq.pc1m Ormdh Ram CZ)    6.5         -       -
1m1                                3.3     20.7     3.0
akql- sadw  br                     0.0      0.5     OA
lwaort 25lnty                     -0.2    -2.4      1.4
/a At _ak  prdm; ciata m                at t far ma ad %du M  ad do ct -Andzm          of dAt m  Sadrt et    td a_im.
r  19754D  flmr  am  for _ina 1        mc; smima for ah m  yarnam for Sad iavmit, of bh d_~. in atod. tuced i  m
TZ Pzjald Yat -          t-     -ca
rd PMIxy.
7   1560.2 inl   r8          .,im fa  du=Wz &*  mcay bulmt and ador querim  fixd, - won -                        F trou tbe f2dntl atacptrn.
hch 21, 1956



-36 -
0 f  6 d 7
IIIS 0=m at                                          Ad &IhX  WM tX)  (S WM&" IN97D pm)jLd
tadicetor                   (19S4)                              Actut    l u                                               ra TOJcLed
1975    1900    331        19U        1983    118       l96t    1966        IJ7       ISI5      1916    1991
bano T=d
lmrd3in EZ    ,                1,7CS          2D.9     21.2     9.9      -3.0       27.5    21.1        L6       -1.0       5.4       3.4      L23       5.3
1r1inxy                       10,357         30.7    2D.4    46.8    -10.1         14.3    3L         24.5      -3.4       6.2       3.6       3.6      3.6
lAc/bEa.f                     16.648          0.0     22.5    40.6       7.4       43.5     23         15.5      0.7       3.6       3.2       I.S      6.6
I     _ArdwAl  7oeu            13.916        -15.0      1.4    -9.4     -03        -15.9    -2.2       -4.3      22.0       1.S      I0.        L.       9.7
foot  4 Ox  r goodsm1,538                    6.2     13.2   -34a       -I32       .6.1    -La         3.0    109.0    -436   L .2             7.7      6.7
ftaia                         6366          -3.8    -9.8      -.0      -2.6      -10.6   -13.7      -16.7      -2.3      11.3       3.6      L2        9.9
1 1hiT  ad 4 _W.t            2.151           9.8      6.4    -6.9      -3L2      -13.0      L4        IL5       37.3    14        15.6      14.2     11.6
Oh                           3.31          -30.6     2.2       3.8    -33        -.3       30.9      -9.0      23.0      10.9      10.1       9.4      .6
prdm
flatPr1haf Id                                  89       147      123       114       97       100        97       105      1m         116      127       L9
1t Pdr   loi                                  71       125      13        152       143   1 i           99        94        98       105      112       12M
TM= of T1bdaIeIM                               125      118       93        7S 63             100        96       112       110       111       113      116
0Qzum   at 3wdEdia TS& CZ)                      1Anjl 1bw_    CZ)
(at aaot Pam)                                       (at mc t 1970 pdo)/d
1975      1960      1585      1990                        1975.80   196045   19140
yErs                                 100.0     10.0.     0 100    10.0                           5.8      11.0       3.2
- _ >62.7                               44.8      41.2     41.2                          1.1       L6        3.6
H.ufaamuslb                        37.3      55.2      53.8       .8                          18.2 /a   23.2       3.0
byacta                               100.0    10.0I     1000      100.0                         -1.4      -.7       10.4
Food Ed sd  r  Goo&                 9.        11.1     IL0       108                          17.5     -4.5        7.9
.tzulm                              25.4      44.4      42.1     31.5                          4.3      -7 3       6.4
lhddy    Ed fl3                     26.5      15.4      19.2     2.3                          -7.5      -3.4      182
otturs                              3B.3     29.1      2.7       214                          -1.9      -3.1       9.9
9M  at TR& %dth                9 M a tr  h               9  o trma %tM Ml,
Dkmctlm of TleM                   1975    1930    1963          V7S    1960   1983          1975   19O    1983
70.2    57.3    5.7          23.5    2L5    23.9          2.8     10.1    8.8
Iqict                           67.3    41.8    37.1          8.7      15.    17J         21.1    41.1    41A
la PFx d" cdd 19111-1990. Pdy ?c&CM inclAb _-psaind jlo imu eu 
For tla padod1975-19, m             induima-A t   gmba
7  PMated   r        d  s         at 198 pd.
Mardj 21. 1986



- 37 -
UMNU  P PIIIM. UMNRAL CAPITAL AND not
(1235 NUUeae at SurreaL PrIMe)
Ftp..3at1e.     121.7 .1l11. (SUd-.1U3)
GNP PFM CapitLa U111.90 (1393)
teal .rnjoad -
1971      I0 .        395       ["a2        3M6       I9I       1293 Ld   1966         Ive1       395        I9n9       190
1Let isnrt. of O*ed  Ca  frylae       -0*,702    -1254    -11.I91    -14,747     -0.226         345      -099    -2.71         -706      I.u3I    -1.441        -073
tIpart. .1 0o.d                      3.070     20,132    21.293     20.173     23*13       27.00s    21,029     17.242     29. 13     23.0*6     14.917    42.432
loprc. of codm                      12.210    22,391     22,091     19.391     11 49       13.91b    13.119    11 S.1      16.145     19.024     22.011    21,799
ftL PeaLe: tsese                    -1.733     *.U12      .,1533   -4 1.921    -10.3l3 *O,tt9   -1I.430   -11.134    -11.2U5   -11.414    -12.001   -12.111
Iet altla  Interlst Papm          M2.0W2)    (4.331)   (7.906)   (9.3212    (.4613)    (9,849)   (9.3151    (5.740)    (9,032)    (I.2179)    (9,99)   (9,,14)
an HALT debt)
Not mlr-etaur servita.             -1,421    -3,320      -2,643     -3.259     -2,407     -1,745     -1,719    -2.729      -2.'       -3,379     -4U29I -,177
et Trr,.Ir.                               13        la2       I"         .40         30        172        310          0          0          0          0          0
breast AeU4_C LIsnee                 .4.,09   -12,31   -31.004    -14.717        b.242        121       _24        , -1,73     70N     -1.011    -1.443        -U1
Bluest Private ZevMategat               992       2.23_ *@"S21          "9          *0   I .07b           A;         792        579      3U043      3.247      1.429
MLT Le. (etL)                         4,830      *.U3       5.P0       7.4n       7.323      4.,D2        594      3.13      2,924      3.49      *.0oa      1.4)9
0oe Dia.r Lt                       (4,952)    11313   (24.011)   (34.93)  (30.03)    14.00            C 10,431  10.313     30,224      17.121    15.325     1731,0
Aeeftleatle,                       (1,32       (Uu20e    (1,MS)    (7,454)    (3.579)U    7.116       9      ,751  22.70   33,262     13,452    14.040      14.023
Oralltlt  Loa. Abrrod (NNt)           -160        -27       -921       -394         122       234        400    -1.400      -2,549     -2.07)    -2,320      -2.b70
Other Captlal (leeladlni errord
ae  et aLem)                           -71      1,402     2,519      2,700     -I.091     -2,492     -I3,6          139      -695        06      -14        -40
cl_i*g In  mearvee t(- Cadsate
tieremel)                            I.228     3,9         -49       4,tU          24     -,t027       -437       -774       -348       -3         -9nr    -2.244
tateruttlel Ieetsea  1a               5,719      4,912      ,1,0N      3,210      37117      11,904    12,433     13,201    13,354      34,114     11.11      Ib3,711
(of which maid)                         30      1,143       90          0         207       a.m.       ".E.       .m.        ".a.       ".e.       n.-.       M.S.
.seree  as NInI of Imamrs (CUS)            3.1        3.0       3.1        1.4        2.3        6.2        5.9        7.9        7.0        0.9        0.4        1.9
lnaerel CeeLtame Debt
Creps Bielgra eteo                     4,912     33,333    34,041     34,163      10,902    13,090      0,0151    34.232     34,220    13,122      25,U25    127,0
Offtitl Create                        -          -          -               -          -          -     _         -          _          _           _ 
Cenelml Le                             102        29         19        3g0       -                     -          -          -          _          _          -
D C                                   87        lb         17       IO        _          _          _          _          _          _          _          _
OPE e                                          -          -          _         -           _          _         _          _           _          _         _
06                                            -         -          -           _          _         _          _          _          _          _          _
Othe                                  Is         3          2       -           _          _          _         _          _          _           _         _
enrC_weeIgfel Loa                    4,010     11.294    10,024     14.503      10.590    31.095     10,011    10,352    134220    137122     2.125    137,00
oftfeI4l SMar Cradlte                311        012        as        842       3,099      3,307      1,250     1.200      1a380      I.9         3,28      1.403
7i                                  226        343        I9         023     312U4        1,294       790      1.409      1.70       1.53       1.530      I,m
Other lltellaterel                   119        in9        90        333         217        249       259        232        210        307        3V3        423
Private                           4,326130   30,11      34,2      13,007      5,378      31,225     1,352    135132 1    33.00      33,075     14.62      13.721
ETterel Debt
Belt Deteteedleg and *n Dlsred      23.03      2b.49 n      423     73.014      79,340    .9,431     U,017      91.099     94.423      U,251    102.3Y     105.91
PuhUtIabllaey GAreateemd          13.4       39,4        ,533    49,913      59.05       49,I3t7   U,017      91,49      94,b23    11.291    102,321    101,998
Prlet Elo-Cearentmd               9,192      14,^00    19,792     23.123     21,312    19,22       n.e         Na        n.e        u.s       a.&         n.e
U.dlaharudDbelt                      3.7#1     21,023    12.643    14.32        13,917    13,727      33.6 143.933         15.452     1554       5.13      1313
3mNII111 (2)
UBO diaburaeimat/tetal hfue
ijburmme,                   3.1        3.2        2U4        4.2.      11.1        4.9       7.4        3.G       10.7        10.7      10.2       30.2
no B      AtL M                         *.7        3.7        3.4        3.7        4.0        4.2        4.5        5.7        0.7        7.0        B.2        5.7
1i4 Debt merTleeI/ttl debt SIeIe        2.1        2.1        2.3        2U         4.2         3.5       4.1        4.0        4.7        5.7        0.         1.5
Bebt SewAge
Ttetl Stee Pepeaul tb                3 ,70     13,343     35,1"I    16,5        11.206     20,91I    19,071    21.410      22.,33     22,732     23.09      23.5n7
utarae                             1.41      0.321      7.,93      9.341      7,072      9,546      9.313      5.740      9.033       .279      9,39       9.535
PeytrA    S Z Eaprta (OWl)              35.5       30.1      00.0       71.7      64.0.j      22.3       69.2       73.1       70.0       03.5       "9.        21.7
Leep r terest Rate an- New
CM,r      L_d _ (t) Is                   S.'        12.7       13.3      12.7        11.4       11.9       9.0        9.4        9.2        9.2        9.2        9.0
offitrel                                  .0 *.1             10.8       30.9        10.2       ..           .       n..        n.&.       ,.e.       U.S.       n...
Priesge See                             8.9       13.0      13.3        13.1       11.4       u...                                        n.e.       S...       1.6.
Aer_e Uhtrltp of %wr
cer_dteame (Tee_      ) Le               9.0         9.7       9.7       30.9        9.3        9.4       10.1       33.0             11.    .3       31.2       11.3
OttAdal                                 15.4       12.7       12.4      13.7        12.9      n.e.       n.e.       us.        U.S.       am.        n.e.       U.S.
rfivate foure                           0.9        6.9        9.0       10.2        5.4        ..          e. n_   *.-. *.-.                         u.
As 2 OW Nt 0t-z_,<
M.tudty kruetere of Beblg Belt Deiataedls
Netritee de withle   yrn                                     00
Obtaritlee AMR ettts 10 peer                                 9s.
tataret Strtuwre .1 belt Dewtete g
*      leeret dua witathen do  iret Yeet                            Mo..
Dowe   L toalMS    mid dollar v_  etl.  adjuet*ent.
lFtet and _ retlea  eon  ediem ad leen term delt.
PghlIt Debt only for 1975.
iet et o   _tnue       O   Uag.teee deli.
U    1ed   may _ bntiaatl   atteetly paI.
n.o. - Nt evilalUe.                                                                                                                         Horeb 21. 199



- 38 -                                 ANN   II
Page.1 of 3
THE SrAIUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUHMARY STATENENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1986)
Amount less Undis-
Loan f   Year           Borrower                   Purpoe         Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
Seventy nine loans fully disbursed                                   3,672.7
1317     1976  Brazil                           Agro-Industry           83.0       24.6
1452     1977  Brazil                           Education               32.0          .9
1488     1977  Brazil                           Rural Development       11.0         1.1
1537     1978  Brazil                           Rural Development       24.0       11.6
1538     1978  ELETROBRAS                       Power                  127.4        8.1
1568     1978  Brazil                           Agric. Extension       100.0          .2
1589     1978  Brazil                           Rural Development       37.0        11.0
1656     1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water and Sewerage    100.0           .1
1714     1979  Brazil                           Rural Development       26.0       14.6
1720     1979  Brazil                           Urban Development       70.0        18.5
1721     1979  COPEL                            Power                  109.0       22.3
1728     1979  Brazil                           Rural Development       31.4        6.8
1729     1979  Brazil                           Irrigation              28.0        3.1
1730-5   1979  Brazil                           Roads -                107.9        3.9
1822-5   1980. Brazil/BNDE                      Pollution Control       34.0       22.2
1823     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           130.0          .1
1839     1980  Brazil                           Urban Transport        159.0       26.9
1850     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water Supply             139.0       13.5
1867     1980 Brazil                            Education               32.0       14.2
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development       63.0       45.5
1895     1980 EIETROSUL                         Power                  100.5       56.2
1924     1981  Brazil                           Rural Development       56.0       12.4
1939     1981  ELETROBRAS                       Power                   54.0       39.2
1965     1981  EBTU                             Urban Transport         90.0       46.0
1970     1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           180.0       69.5
1989     1981  Brazil                           Alcohol Development   250.0        20.3
2015     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture             29.0        13.3
2016     1981  Brazil                           Agricurlture            60.0        4.9
2060     1982 Brazil                            Agriculture             67.0       25.6
2061     1982 Brazil                            Health                  13.0        4.5
2062     1982 Brazil                            Highways               240.0       60.8
2116     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture             26.4        11.1
2138     1982 ELETROBRAS                        Power                  182.7      141.5
2163     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture             26.4        16.2
2170     1982 Brazil                            Urban Development      123.9       99.2
2177     1982  Brazil                           Rural Development       42.7       27.0
2193     1982  Brazil                           Urban Development        8.9         3.1
2196     1982  CVRD                             Iron Ore               304.5       69.3



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
A.  SUMMARY STA1TEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1986)
Amount less Undis-
Loan #  Year            Borrower                   Purpose      Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
2224     1982  Brazil                          Feeder Roads          154.0       102.6
2249     1983  Banco Nacional da Rabitacao    Water Supply           302.3      134.8
2268     1983  Brazil                          Agro-Industries       400.0      358.5
2269     1983  Brazil                          Rural Development      67.8       57.7
2343     1983  Brazil                          Urban Development      52.7       40.1
2347     1983 Brazil                           Export Development   352.0          .7
2348     1983  Brazil                          Agriculture           303.0         .5
2353     1983 Brazil                           Agriculture            65.2       57.5
1729-1   1983  Brazil                          Agriculture             7.7        7.7
2060-1   1983 Brazil                           Agriculture            22.8       22.7
2364     1983  Eletrobras                      Power                 250.6      223.0
2365     1983 Eletrobras                       Power                 222.8      103.3
2366     1983  Brazil                          Education              20.0       13.6
2412     1984  Brazil                          Education              40.0       33.0
2446     1984  Brazil                          Federal Highways      210.0      165.5
2447     1984  State of Sao Paulo              Health                 55.5       49.4
2448     1984  Brazil                          Health Studies          2.0        2.0
2488     k985  Brazil                          Development Banking   300.0       249.3
2489   jA985  Brazil                           Education              72.0       64.5
2523     1985  Brazil                          Rural Development      61.3       58.0
2524/1   1985  Brazil                          Rural Development      61.4       61.4
2532/T   1985  Brazil                          Rural WS&S Pilot        16.3       16.3-
2563     1985  Brazil                          Railways              200.0      184.8
2564   - 1985  Eletrobras                      Power Transmission    400.0      388.8
2565     1985 Eletrobras                       Power Distribution    312.0      301.0
2593/1   1985  Brazil                          Land Tenure           100.0      100.0
2623/3   1985  State of Santa Catarina         Urban Development      24.5       24.5
2654 7    1985  Brazil                         Urban Reconstruction  100.0      100.0
Total                                              11,147.10/2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                2,169.37
Total now outstanding                               8,977.73
Amount sold                             45.8
Of which has been repaid              45.8            0.0
Total now held by Bank                              8,977.73
Total undisbursed                                              3,890.5
/1 Not yet effective.
/2 No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
J3 Not yet signed.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Drectors on April 30 and October 31.



-40-                                                                1
L3 S
IL ErCum or  DC nWU3I (m of M~iA sIn.f
FIemI                                                                                                                    1tm in UNS dUlm
Yw                                     O b I t ger                                 Tm       num                    tIa    .*UtAty    Var
M957                Sonn do 11mL M  de ClotrWid                                 19iCml U_dMt                        2.00       -       2A0
193                 OUrlkidt, S. A. Oluea FW~u1                                M     d apr                          I.2        -       1.20
1956                I. L. L PlmlC 62 knit.1 S. A.                               Atlinm Paw                           0.!        -       0.4O
19YI                WHlIP    .I1 do Bald. L A. - lha1a a O_do                   IInw Vddcli                          2AS        -       2.4
1959                Ow.*l lndra   Cdete,o Pxtl1, SL A.                                 t                             1.20       -       1.20
193                 Omi a1n1n.. B. A.                                           PA                                   4.O0       -       4.00
I9tU'1 I972       Am  VlIU. S. .L A.                                           St"                                            1.93     9.93
III6/19             PMPu . CuImI. aIt    mII  S. A6                             PAlpad  1                            3.78      5.71     99
16/ 1972           UltraU sil. L A6 - IAda  a *      do  de ftr tlsulmz        rFutlmm                              L022      3.03    11.25
19W                 MroOnlM iom. L A.                                          Pgredima                             5.50   21a   LB
1910               POIOldllcId . S. a6 bAwCdA * GMZCr O                         Pwred                                540       2*      8.36
1971                dtSe. S. A. Tt.tdia a s   ido                               IcedOM1a                             4.60      3.4     4.06
1911               No (mue - Iida 4& Omlem do Sal                               PAP                                  4.90      -        4.90
1972/1975/ 1961     oiqade 6Lo.c Nbdenu  de 1am                                                                     4 9.14     6.70   37.4
1971'741f18 8/a4   CMAdd  USiwSei do Qmab    -                                    A Sd                              76.97     1.X       .24
w93                  aLu Hinb  b a         wud I -a  p                              de - 1CD  CtAL %wn 0pu.1Pt       50        - I      .00
1973/197Ws919   _    rm  de _woI           d d Rm"= Ifaas - as  . S A.   WMi   sm Ed Edis                           55        6.74    93.4
1974               liAicim V11L.w L S. A.                                          0    ad ?I19iUUI  Iqdimt          LO0       -       6.00
1974               Pubri. de Tbd.62 TAWq. S. A.                                ?mutle                               31.O       -       31.00
MY711979              am Cwnbinme adldmts ld.                                 Cm-ti Slmd                            6.16      1.19    7.37
3975               OdLm IIbtI. S.A.                                             I odndum1*                          1.m        -       1000
1976               So* laa bntrL& - IbtIl 62 NWMg. S. A6                       Tb1                                   6.45      1.00    7.45
1976/1900           7am S. A. - ol I Cae_lzmi do Nan1                           TLIm                                 6 .l20     -      I6.20
8977              R8  S. A. ftmf_m I1AlamIma                                    IJ1 ad Ah1A. cutlq                  20.00       -      20.OO
IS77                 Itlom  E  do NIav S. A.                                   .lnatz                               15.W        -      15.00
1978               CllA MdaamSa S. A.                                           IIM ad Stud                           .        L 3.00    11.36
19719               %Iv do2 Ball   cm a VdaAl.  S. A.                            l  ViddeL                          60.00      .27    65.27
19f                SHdiu 62 11xdm.r S. A. - Iblih                                pV _yu   QCA                        LOD        -       2.00
1963                ldo  do Pa S/A - 1qm  - Aginlgm,  CIgiAia
a trewdlo deOl      1au                                  ft10                                  3.50      1.00    4.50
198                Vlllm   trmtdm de 1m1 S. A. - V n                            Ire ad St_d                          5.00       -       5.00
1983                FM -   Bt  Im&1al de Polprqtlma                             C_hudm ad FWedadcal                 15.00     L200    17.00
1983                 tilat1a CLatta S. A.                                       ahIcaa ard .1 t edadca                -        0.5     0.25
1983               Satoc A    _a Qt          lm a  icd S/A                     FAmUlown                            35.00      LO      4L00
198                 SaUmAl ftueqDatNM                                           OhmIca aif Pedadm1cs                43.40      5.00    am.0
OR61               km1 I                                                       Paw   ad CqataL HIats                  -        1.50     1.50
1961               Coud  &adlIza de A_piMf1a -   AiE od "  bd FtuiIk                                                 5.50      3.00     8.50
1                   Mtf                                                         Chduda ad potradadel.               64.00      4.00    50.00
19Q1                 Oo CcmE                                                      t A Cmu      1dm lNOa0s 40.40 50004W *50
396gDdIIZ1J  S. A.                                       Fty cquItal                                   I            30.00      .45    3045
:983                a. Rl          de Puztlow (CM)                              Eauy 4miZIn                          -          .01     .03
10       6         AImlbl_dfI Fad ad FoLbd kaoibdW                                                                  33.00      -       13.00
193                 am a" Bud. do DinCa        A                                Palo Fau                             6.10      -        6.10
1983                Pis - Pmad de I      S.mLA.                                P    * P4w r dF                     60.00      517    65.17
1913                soeeaS.                                                     Ibid ad Fad fR..dz                   3.0       2.50     5.50
193                Cll1S  a1ad ea Hdhn                                                                              35.00      -       35.00
1966               gai,clnr  ata.                                                Odmla ad Maradmiadls                3.0       5.00     6O.
19C4                (Spida A         1Oj1d1CA tIIl                              Ohdrela ad P      1udndmia          20.00      4.W    2400
19tl               QA    da Q_hld                                              Oadmls ad I_trdmlola                  3.10     LD       5.00
Tuw CAlls em.EU                                                                        935.42    105.172 1.04L.14
L oomUat1.au, Tanslmu, Eqg i           ad SIm                                          679.95     30.78   710.73
lbtAI  ke_ts      Hild by IFC                                                          255.47     74.9    330IID41
6tl.4    1482    79.26
.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vi



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page I    1
BRAZIL
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to Prepare Project:      6 months
(b)  Project Prepared by:                SEPLAN and Ministry of Finance
with Bank assistance
(c)  First Presentation to the Bank:    October 1985
(d)  Appraisal Missions:                 October 1985 and February 1986
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:         May 1986
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:      July 1986
Section _I - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Project Managers and Coordinators for the SEPLAN and Ministry of
Finance components, satisfactory to the Bank, would be formally
appointed as a condition of effectiveness and the posts
maintained during the whole period of project execution (paras.
80 and 84);
(b) The Goverument would, as a condition of effectiveness, conclude
an agreement with an international contracting agency under which
the latter would contract foreign consultants and assist training
abroad (para. 83);
(c) As a condition of disbursement, the Goverament would enter into
cooperation agreements with IPEA, IBGE and FGV (para. 82);
(d) The conclusion of an agreement between the Government and TCU
(para. 84) and a cooperation agreement between IBGE and FGV
(para. 80) would be further conditions of disbursement for the
TCU and FGV components, respectively; and
(e)  A tradining program for the use and application of the STN budget
information and control system is to be prepared and given to the
Bank not later than March 31, 1987 (para. 84).



- 42 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 4
Table I: BRAZIL - PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Foreign      Local         Total
----(US$ thousands)-----
Estimated Foreign and Local Costs:
1.  Strengthening the Planning and
Budgeting Systems
1.1 SOF-Budget Office                         37         1,340        1,377
1.2 IPLAN-National Planning
Institute                               435        2,013         2,448
1.3 INPES-National Research
Institute                               251        1,749         2,000
Subtotal                                723        5,102         5,825
.   ublic Enterprise Evaluation
(SEST)
2.1 Rehabilitation Programs                1,240        11,930       13,170
2.2 Training in Performance
Evaluation                                --1650                  1 650
Subtotal                               1,240       13,580
3.  Support of Administrative Reform
(SEPLAN- SG)                                137         1,227        1,364
4.  Training-CENDEC                              315         2,660         2,975
5.  Strengthening Statistical Services
5.1 T.B.G.E.                               6,209         9,294       15,503
5.2 Fundacao Getulio Vargas                  226         1 050        1 276
Subtotal                                          710,344        T 792m-
Base Cost-SEPLAN Component                 8,850        32,913       41,763
6.  Ministry of Finance
6.1 Integrated Information
and Control System (STN)                 375        2,775         3,150
6.2 Training of Special Auditing
Unit (STN)                                50           390          440
6.3 Comptroller General Auditors Trng.       200         2,380        2,580
6.4 Govt. Assets Administration              100           850          950
Base Cost-STN Component                      725         6,395        7,720
Project Management                           300           500           800
Total Base Cost                            9,875        39$808       49$fl
Physical Contingencies                       890         3,582        4,472
Price Contingency                            865         3,480        4,345
Total Project Cost                        11,630       46,870        58,500
_   a



- 43 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4
Table II: BRAZIL - PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Counter-
Components                                      Bank Loan    part Funds       Total
--- (USS thousands)----
Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan:
1.  Strengthening the Planning and
Budgeting Systems
1.1 SOF-Budget Office                           897           480         1,377
1.2 IPLAN-National Planning Institute         1,750           698         2,448
1.3 INPES-National Research Institute         1 500           500         2 000
Subtotal                                4i147 1     58
2.  Public Enterprise Evaluation
(SEST)
2.1 Rehabilitation Programs                   6,170         7,000        13,170
2.2 Training in Performance Evalnation          250         1,400         1,650
Subtotal                                 6,420         8,400        14,82
3. Support of Administrative Reform
(SEPLAN-Sec.Gen. Office)                     1,116           248         1,364
4.  Training (CENDEC)                               957         2,018         2,975
5.  Strengthening the Statistical System
5.1 IBGE (Geographic & Statistical
Institute)                               /,561         7,942        15,503
5.2 Getulio Vargas Foundation                   629           647         1,276
Subtotal                                 8,190         8,589        16 779
Base Cost-SEPLAN Component                   20,830        20,933        41,763
6.  Ministry of Finance
6.1 Integrated information and
Control System (STN)                      1,500         1,650        3,150
6.2 Training of Special Auditing
Unit (STN)                                  200           240          440
6.3 Comptroller General Auditors Trng.        1,300         1,280         2,580
6.4 Govt. Assets Administration (SPU)           500           450           950
- Base Cost-STN Component                       3,500         3,620         7,210
Project Management (including cost
of UNDP contract)                             300           500           800
Total Base Cost                           24,630       25,053        49,683
Physical Contingencies                        2,217         2,255         4,472
Price Contingencies                           2,153         2,192         4,345
Total Project Cost and Financing          29,000       29,500        58,500
= 



- 44 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4
Table III: BRAZIL - PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Bank      Government       Total
---(US$ thousands)---
Estimated Project Costs by Main Category:
1. Strengthening the Planning and
Budgeting System                          4,147         1,678        5 825
-  consultant services                      3,893
-  equipment                                                173           173
-  personnel and support services             254         1,505         1,759
2.  State Enterprise Component                  6,420         8,400        14,820
-  consultant services                      6,170                       6,170
-  training                                   250         1,300         1,550
-  personnel and support services                         7,100        7,100
3.  Support for Administrative Reform            1 116          248         1,364
-  consultant services                                                  1,095
-  personnel and support services              21           248          269
4.  Training                                       957        2,018         2,975
-  consultant services                       _T55                        780
-  trainees                                               1,715        1,715
-  personnel and support services              37           281          318
-  other                                       140           22           162
5.  Strengthening the Statistical System        8,190         8,589        16 779
-  consultant services                      1,561563
-  training                                 1,082                       1,082
-  field research                                           520          520
-  equipment                                4,407         4,235        8,642
-  construction and installation              910         1,973        2,883
-  personnel and support services             228         1,861        1,214
6.  Ministry of Finance                          3 500        3,620         7 120
-  consultant services
-  training                                   700         2,770        3,470
-  personnel and support services                           850          850



- 45 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 4
Total Base Costs                                24,630       25,053        49,683
-  consultant services                      169301                     16,301
-  training                                  2,032        5,785         7,817
-  field research                                           520           520
-  equipment                                 4,407        4,408         8,815
-  construction and installation               910        1,973         2,883
-  personnel and support services              540       11,845        12,385
-  other                                       140           22           162
- project management (including cost
of UNDP contract)                        300           500          800
Physical Contingencies                   2 217         29255        49472
Price Contingencies                                    2,192        49345
Total Project Cost and Financing                29,000       29,500        58,500



irlt  10 01    p  Wt P"'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*0 S 1I 
i                      J        K          J  I   p
I    ll   1 1"ii    iAl 
1n  ...~~~~'.                               I     I.-..g" 
|~~~~~ I                                  I           Aj -   
H~~~~                          4 --- - - ----                    _      O



-47-                                  ANNEX V
Page 2 of 6
FM
I   1I m  Iv  I    El m   IV  I  U  mrnv
UIU~~~            -                aaa a~~~~~: ace: ~~~maomaoo ma mmao  3maomomco
3.2   1esp      f s
3.21 Sd!olwxd   g n      Jict Gibith mm uA
1st V   eo1a~d             -xc
Fekm                 x
la _gdu                     -X
3.23 FdryiMl Hathki:     amd          masaw             X
3.24 Qt     arn  Otdi:  Uxz.          l    Xxt
lot ShA1
3A  an ar:   mlmt                                     x
Tlot ab                     _  C
3.25 Swtaray amd. In
Pbt ard Mtrpwts    Oamzatm  xxbcs
3S~~~~~~~a 6 *-                                   X
3.%  tkbm Ibahzt  a3d    Qbi1ta m                   x
atbrtnz           let d fi    a 
= ( f @    _  e t   g   =  t  Dd2a       .                                             A -%  [
3.27 SdxKi,Jal andPh 1bUa   Qmzltz am=mme               x
Qt*j  atxlim   Iet atuvaiplk  I
4.3 Db  of Ieo                   g    m          
~~~~~zrIz  uWiixei                             -^-1
ApOriml nd DlLmfslsC W df   q      n          _
RdA  ~~~Sc   Plww ad S*   _ i-A
etala alspls               -ic wxd-
4.2 Tqz  hig Bxbe  SPawtHa u07])citz~ii
zeim h d irxim f   b&     tKid W1g QcaW fxuied
liwils _E -K
--K
sb* VIL--.                          --   -- 
4ofSf mefr  Wxadg Gd 2
tmWbUs !E d                X           :        _ -
mdl AgmenaE with Obc Ih
~~~~~ - I- - - n   
Tmdnbx cE Staff
St(    tumel_                                   _  x



- 48 -                        ANNEX Y
'Pap 3 of 6
I _ m _ I - m- I _ m _
1 CS -dbU*  m-                                            --                -. - D
5.11 l ic ad 9ul EB-  dza               d
i=                   -i _ , _   _-  _-    _              -I~     
5.2 ad                             ad bcuw
adBEutm:               six au  ad t                                    __  
5.13  1at                   SKGaxd CM
5.14 kfamim !jut:           Sod    a ardpb
cm1zdLt In mm
5.15 SocIa Pb*m I    ad
N&a midmi                        ~    ---- 
5.16bAdm mti  Wm                m u P
5.2 O       - hedmsli
5.21 lma  f Tlnlrg
qlqtL  In RIds2m               x
IpmknmnUta                                              x
5.22 SIdxes at Mmh*ig       lbrla Hr wip ax!
5M Staff 1me1quint:                      -B                                  x           -x
Mire :Ln _ _  I 
6. FRiIk RFeqKIBS PMdAittic
6.1 St*aete Iepec
a d  5 
fiiiu
oxc    -  s    -
Pa. of         of 5
f i=
Mm* diId ad aimi-
tBi pts  _ :                -
tldlm  h md                              X XC
9Xfi. of&   EC 5 M
Bc  elad  ad c*-
{1    -%



-49 -                              ANNMEX V
Page 4 of 6
I   3n: m v  I  _ I In_    I  _1  31 IV
ee~~~~~~~~III                       a      x  mm Am       I       mm mmo mm xm  Dgn MMO
Tpmat*Wi Fnbpa/                                   -x    M       -c
ofth S              f
t cbfSl   ard cmil-
plaxow                                        ---,   -xi    -z
b. of 5th  m  oE 5
'm  Mld td  naA
mi .                                                           _ct -
~~~~~~~a.   -     _ x
--x
Pa  of 6ith gup oE 6
M   dd1rd ea:d aQou u
mi anbJ~ad~
_* -
6.2 idrW in m PcD
7. Dq  =z Emuic ad Sa1.i B    ir  3/
7.1 Bd1 Ry sf with Elrp af
7.11 Stt_iy of Fomkd T-friz
fcF due-  fcusm1zg  WbikIg QOm* fmad ad
comi O xtr                   _   _
7.12 Mo-uxr2 kAisyws ad      St,* u:uipIw                -x
mbkb2fg                 Wxkdzg Gmcp fma  and
7.14 S~b* Wsft Ahmed                                                             -1
7.2 Rileyi  R  nxj t 
?;!1eigbip by
7.21 Soda1 Rbq  haixtg       gE cfII      toi                           n
QoiuAgt  CMEW              -A
7. Rlbbe c9 FPibIc       h b     r          t opi
aEmd!gKm                O3uiol~ts cmmci                       --z
sbtudes a3evieted 
7.2 CrCl          f Std[-          tom      O &E Cs  iL
119A,Hn ad Tw]mimi      oxami   am actEd1
I/Tobe IE ct*iaa in FY9 aWdcr F91 ith MgT ard/cr eaSrprd fiunoe.
V  b iTb std in FM9 ad m*InwI in FY91, lrsed by   ad/cr se ezex.psp_
y1    mazlB s42 be mDaai ly MM staff, by stff Cf alnr cnw    Hfnsi  aid ptmde b,cs fir policy dLscxmlu   a d



_                           ___K                            -H 
>  1 F | r H H 1   1                                            II
4                                     _                             II
4            0   1      Kl          _      _     _      _     _l l 
_     1            I            K    II
dfl          __________________
o        0     1      1           t, il              1               
co                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~al



-51-                          ANNEX V
Page 6 of 6
I  ZE m _  I _  m _  I -     m _  I I m IV
~~~~~~~-  -                                                ---         - 
9.1  a ~ d u     n is m w 
S _ X X _ _ Z _ _ _ _
9.2 fd  gisi flmatba
93 abdzoA. dN                        a
9.4  mmiam          t  p Oz  l               _ _
9b DxoWWiutii dE                                   -      -
4 gj_X _  __  _ _s _C_T
9L DhadnU     at   adI eGimin9ma
9.8 mk       ad .hm    oxatt _rnB , _
Ulti 6 U _
S                   Nmnri AL
n~~~~~~
x~~~~
pn ~
W 4e~~daAV3fM    Ql    vd _ _
ugn    ~      w                          SNAms  -_
AlMfL tMt   a(_ _= _m __
1X ,EhiLMt iil~~~~~~~
E1 a=zBtBB V X X ~~~~~~~x
10.5                                     X _  _ 
D                        X~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



- 52-
ANNEX VI
Pag-e 1 f 9
BRAZIL
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION AND OBJECTIVES
1.        As stated in Part III of this report, the government is
concentrating its initial efforts to strengthen public sector management on
key institutions and agencies at the federal level. The following
paragraphs describe the organization and operations of these component
parts of the federal planning and management system, and the actions
planned or already being Laplemented.
Planning and Budgeting
2.        The Planning Secretariat of the Presidency (SEPLAN), headed by
the Minister of Planning, plays a key role in the formulation, coordination
and implementation of the planning and budgeting activities of Brazil's
central government. To carry out its multiple activities it can draw on a
staff of more than a thousand, of whom about 60 percent are technical and
the rest administrative and support staff. A major portion of SEPLAN's
technical staff are employees of IPEA (the Institute for Economic and
Social Planning), a foundation consisting of the following (i) INPES, which
carries out macro-economic research; (ii) IPLAN, which is responsible for
overall, sector, regional, and human resource planning (and assistance to
SEST in the evaluation of the investment proposals of State enterprises and
the assessment of their financial and economic performance) (iii) INOR,
which gives technical support to the Ministry's programming and budgeting
activities which are the responsibility of SOF, the Federal Budget Office
and (iv) CENDEC, which provides special training in all aspects of planning
and budgeting. Major emphasis is being placed by the Government on
widening the scope and improving the quality of the research, planning,
project analysis, budgeting and training activities carried out by INPES,
IPLAN, SOF/INOR and CENDEC.
Macro-Economic Research
3.        INPES, the National Research Institute (which has a professional
staff of about 45 economists and econometricians) has for many years been
the research arm of SEPLAN. The major focus of its recent activities has
been the analysis of macro economic trends and problems, using
sophisticated econometric methods, including model building, an activity in
which it has worked closely with Bank staff; it has also acted as
Secretariat of an inter-ministerial study group which administers a program



- 53 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 9
of economic and social studies carried out by individual consultants,
consulting firms, Universities and research Institutes. This latter
modality has been used successfully in the last two years in carrying out
studies of industrial and trade Policies, financed with funds from the
Bank's Export Development Loan (2347-BR). The new leadership of SEPLAN has
urged INPES to link its activities more closely with SEPLAN's operational
needs, especially more effective planning and control of public sector
activities and the long-term development of social programs.
Planning and Project Analysis
4.        IPLAN, the National Planning Institute has the potential for
playing a key role in developing and using appropriate methodologies for
macro-economic, sector and regional planning, providing useful parameters
and methods for economic and social cost/benefit analysis of public sector
investment projects and social programs, and developing improved monitoring
and evaluation systems. Its professional staff of about 150 economists,
financial analysts and engineers has, in recent years been divided into 4
major divisions, charged with (i) macro-economic, (ii) sector and project,
(iii) regional and (iv) social program analysis and evaluation,
respectively. A reorganization which would group the staff into planning
and monitoring units is under active consideration. As the central
planning arm of SEPLAN, IPLAN's activities are supposed to center on the
preparation of the medium-term National Development Plan, the difficult
task of preparing and updating a public sector multi-year investment
program, assisting SOF (the National Budget Office) in having the arnual
budget reflect the priorities enunciated in the National Development Plan,
helping SEST evaluate the financial and economic performance of State
enterprises and analyze their investment proposals and monitoring and
evaluating the effective implementation of the Government's major economic
and social programs. IPLAN's work in these areas has in recent years been
intermittent, as the energies of the staff have been increasingly diverted
towards helping to deal with short-term emergencies and operational
problems. The present leadership of SEPLAN and IPLAN is trying to redirect
IPLAN's activities towards medium-term planning and improve the technical
quality of the entire public planning process.
5.        CPS, IPLAN's Sector Planning Center, advises the Planning
Ministry on sector policies and inter and intra-sectoral priorities,
appraising major public sector investment projects and monitoring their
implementation. In carrying out these functions, CPS attempts to prepare
public sector multi-year investment programs. The effectiveness of CPS
(which has a high caliber staff of 35 economists, financial analysts and
engineers) in carrying out these tasks has been hampered in recent years by
the excessive emphasis by key policy makers on the analysis of short-term
problems and their limited support for CPS's attempt at multi-year
investment programnming and the creation of an operationally useful system
for sector analysis and the economic evaluation of projects. In fact, only
in the infrastructure sectors (power, transportation and water supply) are
relatively well thought-out methods for sector and economic return analysis



-54 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 9
in fairly general use. Even in these sectors, such analysis is hampered by
the failure, after an abortive attempt in 1970, to develop and keep up to
date a system of shadow prices and other economic coefficients and the fact
that input-output analysis is still based on 1970 census data. ,n
appraising industrial and agricultural investment projects, Brazilian
public sector enterprises and financial or planning tnstitutions such as
the Bank of Brazll, BNDES and SUDENE confine themselves, in general, to an
eva]uation of technical feasibility and financial viability. Economic rate
of return analysis has been the exception and very little risk analysis is
carried out. As noted, the present leadership of SEPLAN, SEST and IPLAN is
very conscious of the need to develop improved systems of overall
planning, sector and project analysis, monitoring and evaluation.
6.        CNRH, the National Human Resources Council (which has a
professional staff of about 25 economists, engineers, sociologists,
educationalist and health professionals), has for many years played a
pioneering role in the analysis of social programs and projects. Since the
creation of FINSOCIAL (a major fund for social programs) in May 1982,
CNRH's influence has increased because it is responsible for the analysis
of funding requests from FINSOCIAL resources and recommends to the Minister
of Planning which of them deserve priority. With the advent of the new
administration in 1985, its wider responsibilities have been confirmed: it
has been incorporated in IPLAN and made responsible for monitoring the
execution of the new Social Sector Priority Program. CNRH has recently
started two programs designed to monitor the implementation of social
sector programs and evaluate their effectiveness from the point of view of
the intended beneficiaries: the first monitors the flow of FINSOCIAL
resources and the funds of the Social Sector Priority Program to the point
when these funds are released to the States involved in their execution and
tries to account for disbursement delays; the second attempts to evaluate
the effectiveness of the Government's school lunch program and the system
of retail food outlets on the basis of sample studies. In addition, IPLAN
is preparing a greatly expanded program of social sector planning and
evaluation.
Budget Planning
7.        The formulation of Brazil's Federal Budget is the responsibility
of SOF, the Secretariat of Budgeting and Finance (Budget Office) of
thePlanning Ministry. Its location in that Ministry reflects the fact that
its basic function is supposed to be to analyze the budget submission and
execution of the Sector Ministries with a view to assuring that they are
compatible with the economic and social policy guidelines and priorities of
the National Development Plan and with available financial resources. The
1964 Budget Law envisages a budget process based on program budgeting,
resulting in a unified, comprehensive, Annual Budget and a multi-year
Public Investment Budget. SOF, with INOR, has a staff of over 100
financial analysts, economists, budget examiners, accountants and
auditors. It works in close contact with the Planning and Budget Offices
of the Sector Ministries which in turn rely on some 2,600 budgeting units
to prepare the basic budget proposals.



- 55 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 9
8.        The accelerating inflation of the last 10 years, economic
problems and distortions reflecting the two major oil price shocks, the
debt crisis, and the 1981-83 recession, all of which led to an excessive
preoccupation of policy makers with short term problems and ad-hoc
solutions, has had a very negative impact on the quality of the budgetary
process. As noted In para. 33 above, budgetary unity was lost because
major subsldy and credit programs and some public debt service payments
became part of the "monetary" budget of the Central Bank. The budgetary
control of hundreds of instltutes, foundations, and other autonomous
bodies, which rely mobtly on funding from the Treasury, was shifted to
SEST, which was established in 1979 primarily to strengthen Government
control over the activiti.es of productive State enterprises. SOFs'
estimates of fiscal receipts, incorporated in the original budgets, have
proved Increasingly unrealistic in the face of accelerating inflation. The
agency's staff, instead Gf evaluating budget performance, has had to devote
a major part of its time and energies to the analysis of supplementary
budget requests. Successive National Development Plans provided little
operational guidance to SOF on how to evaluate budget requests which
consisted primarily of personnel and other current expenditures, and
internal and external debt service ngyments.  Only a small part of public
sector investments were reilected in the budget prepared by the Sector
Ministries and reviewed by SOF. Most investments were carried out by
public sector enterprises or by autonomous azencies and were financed by
official banks or by external creditors. While the Annual Budget continued
formally to be based on program budgeting, in practice, the discussion
revolved around line items. Finally, SOF's auditing functions were shifted
to SECIN, a Central Internal Control Secretariat which the new
administration transferred to the Finance Ministry. Recently internal
auditing has been decentralized. Most of it is to be done by the Internal
Coutrol Secretariats of the Sector Ministries (CISET's). A small group of
SECIN staff has been incorporated in the newly created Treasury
Secretariat, (STN). It will be responsible for providing guidance to the
CISET's, will audit projects financed by external lenders like the Bank and
carry out special audits for the Presidency.
9.        During 1985, a good deal ot progress has been made in
reestablishing a more unified and meaningful budgetary system. Virtually
all subsidy programs have either been abolished or explicitly reflected in
the 1986 Federal Budget as are the internal and external debt service
payments; the budgetary control of most autonomous agencies and foundations
has been returned to SOF. At the same time a more operationally meaningful
National Development Plan has been prepared which provides a better basis
for SOF's budget analysis.
Budget Execution
10.       In recent years the Government in general and the Finance
ainistry, in particular, which plays the key role in supervising budget
execution, has had little effective control over public expenditures as a
whole. This was due in part to the fact that, as already noted, a
substantial portion of such expenditures passed through the "monetary*



- 56 -
ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 9
rather than the fiscal budget, a major distortion which has been
corrected. It also reflected the lack of timely and detailed information
on actual expenditures since information based on the Government's internal
auditing system reached the Finance Ministry with an average delay of 45
days. Under these circumstances the Treasury has had to rely on
information supplied by the Central Bank and Banco do Brasil which furnish
aggregates of expenditures by the Sector Ministries and the approximately
2,600 budgeting and financing units (UG's) but provide no breakdown of such
expenditures.
11       The system has led to excessive delays in registering actual
expenditures; inconsistent data regarding the same transaction; use of
rudimentary (manual) methods of disbursement registration by the UG's;
multiple and inconsistent information regarding budget execution; and the
maintenance of a float of at least US$150 million in the 3,700 current
accounts In the Banco do Brasil, which earn no interest and are not
adjusted for inflation. The Government has recently established a new
Treasury Secretariat In the Ministry of Finance which aims to eliminate
many of these shortcomings by reorganizing the present systems of financial
programming, administration, accounting and auditing, and by instituting an
integrated, computerized system of information which would cover budget
planning, execution and expenditure control. The new information system
will furnish the expenditure data needed at all levels on a comprehensive
and timely basis. A unified Treasury account is to be established by
January 1987.
The Federal State Enterprises
12.       Brazil has some 400 decentralized Federal-level public entities
of which 189 constitute the state productive sector. This sector consists
of a few, very large enterprises (20 are responsible for 89% of the total
fixed assets in the sector; 50 are responsible for most of the rest) and
many smaller ones. Most of the productive enterprises (109) are grouped
under ten large holding companies. They are concentrated in relatively few
economic sectors: electricity, telecommunications, transport, steel and
aluminum, petroleum and mining. In commerce there is also a food supply
chain and there are trading companies affiliated with a state production
company. The number of state enterprises has grown rapidly - there were
less than 50 In the early 1960s. Today the productive state enterprises
play a major role in the economy and are responsible for a large proportion
of the public sector debt accumulated in the 1970s.
13.       Up until 1979 the government had limited control over the state
productive sector, through the loose oversight exercised by the sector
ministries. The enterprises had access to earmarked Treasury funds and
were assured of government guarantees for their borrowing. The creation of
subsidiaries was largely uncontrolled, and there was no consolidated
information on the total number of enterprises or their financial
situation. As a result not only the number but also the debt of the state
enterprises grev rapidly, although the increase in debt was partly because
of Government pressure on creditworthy enterprises to borrow abroad as a
form of balance of payments support; it was also partly the result of lax
control over their investment and financial decisions.



- 57 -
ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 9
14.       The profitability of the enterprises in recent years has not been
high.  In 1978-1983, a representative group of 119 major public enterprises
earned an average return on equity of 6.21, compared to 14.41 for 793 of
the larger Brazilian private firms and 16.8X for 88 foreign firms operating
in Brazil. When these data are adjusted for understatement of inflation
and monetary correction on assets, and to exclude subsidized credit, the
averages change to 3.81 for state firms, 21.81 for private Brazilian firms
and 31.01 for foreign companies. The poorer performance of the state firms
reflects less on their operational efficiency -- many of the enterprises
are very competently managed - than on their much higher level of
indebtedness; in part it also reflects the results of price controls on
their output and some excess staffing.
15.       As already noted, the Government created the Secretariat for the
Control of State Enterprises (SEST) in 1979, as part of the Planning
Ministry, in an effort to control the growth of expenditures and debt of
the state productive enterprises. SEST was given authority not only over
the state productive sector but also 14 state banks, the social security
funds, and a large number of semi-autonomous institutions, foundations,
etc., known as "typical government entities". SEST control relies on
detailed annual budgets from each entity, spelling out the enterprise's
present and projected resources, expenditures, credit operations, debt
service, investment program, profit and loss account, balance sheet and
Imports. SEST then sets ceilings on the firm's expenditures on investment
(project by project), on amortization, interest payments, wages and other
operating costs, imports, and long and short term borrowing. In addition,
companies borrowing with Government guarantee must receive an explicit
authorization from SEST (a "letter of priority") in order to contract such
loans.  SEST monitors compliance through quarterly reports from the state
enterprises on incomes, expenditures, investment outlays and the wage
bill. Since 1983 it has also received monthly figures from 70 companies
responsible for 90 percent of total expenditures.
16.       Although these controls have been effective in curbing state
enterprise expenditures and borrowing, they have several drawbacks; a lack
of control over performance because of the emphasis on comparing financial
results with budgets that were often unrealistic to begin with (because of
the use of optimistic Government inflation and exchange rate projections),
rather than the evaluation of productivity or financial results; detailed,
ex ante controls which could cause rigidities in the face of changing
circumstances and unintended, perverse results; a degree of detailed
control which reduced management decision-making power and accountability
for results; a very short term focus, with cuts determined on an ad hoc
basis, without adequate consideration of priorities; controls uncoordinated
with other Government policy decisions (pricing, for example) that could
alter or undermine their effects; and generally, a system basically
designed to enforce austerity and not to improve the fundamental situation
of the state enterprises.
17.       The new administration has taken steps to correct these defects.
SEST is implementing a performance evaluation system that will permit the
Government to judge the financial results and efficiency of the firms. It



- 58 -
ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 9
has also designed systens to evaluate how each enterprise is fulfilling its
obJectives, responding to Government priorities and adapting to changing
markets, as well as to rate the quality of service and products and its
responsiveness to its clientele. Through rehabilitation programs, SEST
will help state enterprises deal with their underlying financial and
operational problems, and will also rationalize and coordinate government
policies. SEST will gradually and selectively reduce its ex ante controls
on enterprise operations, holding managers accountable for final results,
while strengthening and improving its guidance on objectives and major
investment decisions. To accomplish this, SEST is improving Its capacity
to understand and guide enterprise performance. In addition, the
responsibility for most of the non-market government enterprises has been
transferred to SOF, the budget secretariat, to allow SEST to concentrate
fully on the productive state enterprises.
Information Systems
18.       The information base for Brazil's ecc.aomic and social development
centers on the Fundacao Instituto Brasileiro de Geografla e Estatistica
(IBGE), the large centralized statistical organization responsible for the
supply of most official economic, social, demographic and geographic data.
IBGE has a staff of about 14,000 of whom over 8,000 are stationed in Rio de
Janeiro and the rest spread throughout Brazil - there are IBGE offices in
Brasilia, in nearly all states, and in 850 regional units each covering, on
average, five municipalities. IBGE's activity centers Include the
technical directorate, responsible for the production of the primary
statistics (data from censuses, surveys and administrative records) and
much of their analysis; a training and statistics school; the directorate
for geography and cartography; and the administrative and information
directorates, the letter including the center for computer services. The
primary statistics include the decennial population and housing census;
quinquennial sector censuses of agriculture, manufacturing, construction,
trade and finance, transport and communications, and infrastructure
services such as energy and water supply. IBGE also carries out annual
manufacturing, mining and agriculture surveys, a national household survey
program (PNAD) which provides data on household expenditures and
employment, and surveys of public sector expenditure. It produces the
national input-output tables.
19.       Until recently, IBGE's work suffered from problems of timeliness
in providing output, of sampling and survey methodology, and of coverage
and accuracy of the registers of enterprises and establishments on which
the collection of statistics and the construction of samples must rely.
Now, under new management IBGE has initiated a full development program
covering social and demographic statistics; economic statistics and
national accounts; agricultural statistics; regional statistics, with the
emphasis on strengthening IBGE field offices; the cartographic base; and
training and methodological development for all the directorates. The
Plans to improve IBGE's efficiency and quality of service include major
changes in management and organization and a reequipment program.



- 59 -
ANNEX VI
Page 8 of 9
20.       While tthe nacional accounts of Brazil are the legislative
responsibility of IBGE, the responsibility for their preparation and
publication has been delegated, since 1947, to the Fundacao Getulio Vargas,
a prestigious private foundation also located in Rio de Janeiro. This
unusual arrangement has depended for Its success on close working
cooperation between IBGE, as supplier of primary and derived statistics,
and the FGVU as producer of the accounts. This cooperation has not always
occurred. Moreover, the staff resources available to the FGV's Institute
of Economics, including the Centres for National Accounts and Fiscal
Studies which prepare the national accounts, have in recent years been
insufficient for the purpose. Consequently, Brazil has not had available
national accounts of the level needed, in terms of structure, scope,
detail, quality and timeliness, for contemporary analysis and policy
development.
21.       The evolution of a modern, robust statistical system, including a
strengthening of the national accounts which are the integrating framework
for the comprehensive system required for public policy, is being given
high priority by the new Government. In addition to the IBGE development
program, additional resources are to be allocated for the national accounts
operations of the FGV and special efforts are being made to ensure the
necessary working cooperation between the two organizations. The
possibility now exists of establishing, with appropriate external support
through the proposed project, a system of national and regional statistics
which will be adequate for Brazil.
Administrative Reform
22.       Since the summer of 1985 a major administrative reform effort has
been underway under the leadership of the Minister in charge of a newly
created Ministry of Administration. The reform proposals are being
prepared by a Federal Administrative Reform Commission, consisting of 36
members who come from the Federal and State Governments, Professional
Associations and Universities. For working purposes the members of the
Commission have been divided into six-member "Chambers' which are supported
by technical staff drawn from various Ministries. The scope of the reform
effort which attempts to deal systematically and simultaneously with the
key technical variables of Brazil's administrative system is reflected in
the agenda which the various Chambers are studying and debating. It
includes (i) a review of both the legal and organizational framework of the
Federal planning, budgeting, financial programming and expenditure control
systems from the legislative standpoint, furnishing the basis for an
informed discussion of how to reestablish greater legislative control over
the budget in the Constitutional Assembly to be elected in November 1986;
(ii) suggestions on how to strengthen internal expenditure control; (iii) a
review of the Federal procurement system; (iv) a study of personnel
administration in all its dimensions, including position classification,
compensation, career development and training, merit based salary increases
and promotion, etc.; (v) a critical scrutiny of the over-all structure of



- 60 -
ANNEX VI
Page 9 of 9
the Federal establishment, including the identification of what Federal
Government fuctions are to be devolved to the States and municipalities and
the latter's capabilities to absorb new functions; (vil) a review of the
increased use of information technology to ensure its effectiveness
and (viii) a study of particular Government rules and procedures with a
view to simplifying them and making them more responsive to the needs of
the citizenry. The program will be supported by administrative reform
studies to be undertaken by SEPLAN.
23.       The foregoing agenda reflects well the broader policy objectives
of the reform such as reducing the scope of the public sector;
decentralizing Federal Government functions to the States, municipalities
and the private sector, thus enlarging the scope for local decision making;
reestablishing legislative control and oversight over the actions of the
executive; revitalizing the civil service; streamlining the methods of
decision making so as to render it more dynamic, less formalistic and more
transparent while preserving administrative flexibility.
24.       By early 1986, the Administrative Reform Commission had made
significant progress, especially in the area of personnel policy to which
it gave high priority. Its effectiveness has been substantially enhanced
through the transfer of SEMOR, Seplan's administrative reform secretariat,
to the Ministry of Administration. Making active use of its powers to
draft technical staff from all parts of the Federal establishment and to
contract consultants with resources from a specially created fund, the
various Chambers are concentrating their efforts on the preparation of
reform proposals which could serve as the basis for the deliberations of
the Constitutional Assembly.



61 -                        ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
BACKGROUND DOCUMENTATION
Public Sector Management Project Proposals, SEPLAN, October 1985, revised
February and April 1986.
Proposal of the Brazilian Economic Institute for Reformation of the System
of National Accounts of Brazil, Fundacao Getulio Vargas, July 1985,
Revised February 1986.
Projects of the Fiscal Studies Center, Fundacao Getulio Vargas, July 1985,
revised February 1986.
Public Sector Management: Improving the Budgetary Process, Budget and
Finance Secretariat, SEPLAN, October 1985, revised April 1986.
Public Sector Management Project: The State Enterprise Component, Mary
Shirley, October 1985.
Public Sector Management Project: Statistics and National Accounts
Components, Cornelis Oomens (Consultant), October 1985.
Brazil: Improvement of Project Appraisal, Monitoring and Evaluation,
Philip Glaessner (Consultant), December 1984.
The Brazilian Administrative Reform Program, James Kearns, October 1985.
Public Sector Management Project: Possible Administrative Reform
Component, James Kearns, October 1985.
Public Sector Management Project: CENDEC Training Component, Kye Woo Lee,
October 1985.
An Advanced Program in Government Auditing: Proposals, Federal Tribunal of
Accounts and Center for the Coordination of Accounts Tribunals,
October 1985 and January 1986.
Audit and Training Arrangements for Official Control Entities, A.
Gonzalez-Malaxechevarria, October 1985, February and April 1986.
An Integated System for Federal Financial Administration, Federal
Data-Processing Service, November 1985.



- 62 -                       ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 2
Proposal for an Integrated System of Federal Government Financial
Administration, Ministry of Finance, December 1985.
Prospects for a Computerized Budget Information System, Philip Glaessner,
(Consultant), January 1986.
Proposed New System of Budgeting and Expenditure Control, Sir Kenneth Sharp
(Consultant), March 1986.
Proposal for the Reformation of the Government Assets Administration
(Servico do Patrimonio) of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Finance, March 1986.
Aides Memoires, October 23, 1985 and March 5, 1986.
Draft Terms of Reference: SEPLAN, SEST, SOF, IPLAN, INPES, CENDEC, IBGE,
FGV, STN and TCU project components.



v   "              I        , +   R j ;-,EN"                     f
I-~A?                     BooaVista -
Ric Branco   o         eh ~         
aCuiab
,. . f Z S ' {- t ' - \   :  S    .h'.A T0 GROSE,:
; -  . ...................... .y.- -DO SUL
df
L E                    )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
11T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
W               k        '  -= -BO IVI          ::A..P
w ,7.,,-,,..
Arrfc   andow bowMrO  GROS
EAi A;Capo
frdr~~~ CammiftL ~ ~ ~



IBRD-15685 R
A.                                                                      AUGUST 19U
W   i   I     I       A;  >   ~AMAPA'"1             
-& .-  . A.m 
'\           -              ( ' . t                                         ^   H    H   A_            E  OP
Vista          -uzcibo               -.S   uis
UhA' A                                           ooi        
V                 -      #,c).       r    Mt"             I~~ N. Am6    S/              
Mono                     A" .,                              /         S  Luis
-  1'                                                                  ,.,.,.,, *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wo Fortalrw
*~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 50 Sb '                   -    Ri  eJmir
6"'               /            Iov       PR   A            n  MARANHAO
/roresina CE-ARA  /  1 'ANDE DO NORTE
k                                                                    PAI'AIBA   *Jo6oI%ssoo
C         i~~      1..                        7    !14jAUI              'Na0~,         'tjMWC
-.:,-'  i l     '  ,AJD   ,oS'-|i                                                    Nainrrl,iA&,1nRCt
St  - - --  -                         -, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oMocei6
/         .9'.        2                        L~~~~~~NAIAGOAS
*Arocaju
j  K"LOETEsOB    A   H   I  A            SERGiPE
GXC  ,  \    'd                   _- 30l S       Slvodor
Cu'ab6                    ,*Fdrl                     >      -- 
BRASILIAj0 r
-4                        /"     ~~~~~~Gosdnia 
'-4S
r             -R(t5O                    MIN~~~~ AS  CE  AlSt
0Camo Gand                N               BeBlo     I ESPI RITO SANTO
-             /                              ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Horizonte-  id,
~r7 S AG  PAULO                                                                              W
\PARAGUAr-k             N..,~~~~~~~~              <RiO) DE JANEIRO
SoPaulo        "
56                 Rio de Janeiro
PARANA
2       ~~Curitibo"
2    ATA  CATARINA
N  T                           \F~~~~~lorian6ltis    tBRAZIL
* *~~... ~~. ~   P1'' ';RANDE DO SUL~~~~                  0     Notional capital
-~~ c -x .  ~    PbrtoAlegre   H                                                State capitals
Par.  !   KILMETER?  100200 30 40  50  _  -  - State boundaries
4tSfr-                        ~~~~~~~~~MILES 6  d    200   30-. International boundaries
Rivers
4cr                                 ajr






