Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
Report No. 14642
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2721-BR)
JUNE 20, 1995
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CENDEC                 -       Centro de Treinamento par-a o Desenvolvimento Economico
(IPEA's Development Training Center)
DRF                    -       Departamento da Receita Federal
(Department of Federal Revenue)
DTN                    -       Departamento do Tesouro Nacional
(National Treasury Department, currently STN)
DPU                    -       Departamento do Patrimonio da Uniao
(Federal Assets Administration, currently SPU)
ESAF                   -       Escola de Administrag5o Fazendaria
(Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning Training Center)
ENAP                   -       Escola Nacional de Administracao Publica
(Public Administration Training Center, executor of PAAG program)
FGV                    -       Fundaqao Getulio Vargas
(Getulio Vargas Foundation)
IBGE                   -       Instituto Brasileiro de GeografSa e Estatistica
(Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics)
INOR                   -       Instituto de Programacao e Orqamento
(IPEA's Programming and Budget Institute)
INPES                  -       lnstituto Nacional de Pesquisas Economicas e Sociais
(IPEA's National Institute for Economic and Social Research)
IPEA                   -       Instituto de Pesquisa Economica Aplicada
(Institute of Applied Economic Research)
IPLAN                  -       Instituto de Planejamento
(IPEA's National Planning Institute)
MEFP                   -       Ministerio da Economnia, Fazenda e Planejamento
(Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning,
Created in 1990 by merging the former SEPLAN and MOF)
MRE                    -       Minist6rio das Relac6es Exteriores
(Miniistry of Foreign Affairs)
MOF                    -       Ministeno de Finangas
(Ministry of Finance)
PAAG                   -       Programa Avangado de Auditoria Governamental
(Advanced Training Program for Governmental Auditing)
PAT                    -       Programa de Atualizaqo Tecnol6gica
(Federal Tax Administration-Pro-gram of Technological Modernization)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.       l



GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS (cont.)
PEPP                    -       Programa Especial de Politicas Publicas
(Public Policies Research Program of SEPLAN)
PGFN                    -       Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda
(Attorney General's Office)
SAF                     -       Secretaria de Administrac,o Federal
(Federal Administration Secretariat)
SEAE                    -       Secretaria Especial de Assuntos Economicos
(Special Secretariat for Economic Affairs of the MOF)
SEMOR                   -       Secretaria de Modernizac,o e Reforma Administrativa
(Secretariat for Administrative Reform)
SEPLAN                  -       Secretaria de Planejamento
(Planning Ministry)
SERPRO                  -       Servico Federal de Processamento de Dados
(Federal Data Processing Services Center in the MEFP)
SEST                    -       Secretaria de Controle de Empresas Estatais
(Secretariat for State Enterprises)
SIAFI                   -       Sistema Integrado de Administra,co Financeira do Govermo Federal
(Federal Integrated Financial Management Information System in STN)
SIAG                    -       Sistema de Avaliac,o da Acoes do Governo Federal
(Federal Budget Management Information System in SEPLAN)
SIASG                   -       Sistema Integrado de Administracao de Servicos Gerais
(Federal Supplier Registry System)
SNP                     -       Secretaria Nacional de Planejamento
(National Planning Secretariat)
SOF                     -       Secretaria de Orc,amento e Financas
(Budget and Finance Secretariat)
SPU                     -       Secretaria do Patrimonio da Uniao, former DPU
(Federal Assets Administration)
STN                     -       Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional
(National Treasury Secretariat, formerly DTN)
TCEs                    -       Tribunais de Contas Estaduais
(State Audit Offices)
TCU                     -       Tribunal de Contas da Uniao
(Federal Audit Office)
UNDP                    -       United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General                                             June 20, 1995
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Brazil
Public Sector Management Loan (Loan 2721-BR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Brazil Public Sector Management
Loan (Loan 2721-BR, approved in FY86) prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean Regional
Office, with Part II prepared by the Borrower. The PCR is of very good quality; it is
comprehensive, informative, and insightful.
This US$29 million loan was closed in December 1993, three years behind schedule. The
project was formally amended three times, between 1988 and 1991, and US$5 million was cancelled.
Financing was provided for consultants, training and equipment with the main objectives of
strengthening the Government's institutional capacities in three areas: (i) preparation of the Public
Investment Program, and controlling and monitoring of the Federal budget; (ii) increasing the
efficiency, monitoring the performance, and promoting the privatization of state enterprises; and
(iii) improving economic data and providing research studies.
The project was initially linked to the Government's 1986 reform program and began with
a high degree of government commitment to its objectives. The design was, however, overly
ambitious and complex, and the Government's willingness and ability to implement the project
weakened over time owing to a series of political, institutional and personnel changes that altered
the objectives of the entities supported by the project. These changes were disruptive, and
pressures to finance low-priority activities were not always resisted.
The project did have some relatively successful components, notably in improving statistics
and information systems, generating useful policy studies, strengthening property tax collections and
providing training of various kinds. But most of the other components did not have satisfactory
results, and on balance the project served more as a budget supplement for some government
departments than as the instrument for institutional development (ID) that it was mainly intended
to be. The outcome is therefore rated as unsatisfactory and the ID impact as modest. Some of the
project's benefits are seen as likely to be sustained, others not, and still others are uncertain. A
rating of uncertain will, therefore, be entered into the OED database for sustainability.
Among the lessons identified by the PCR are: that project design should not be overly
ambitious, particularly in a turbulent administrative and political environment; that too much
flexibility in the use of project funds can create management problems; and that training activities
cannot compensate for inadequate public sector wage levels. The PCR also concludes that the
project design should have provided greater specificity on the components and activities to be
financed (a "blueprint" approach). But OED findings for similar projects suggest that leaving room
for flexibility and adaptation to emerging needs (a "process" approach) can provide better results.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZEL
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMFENT LOAN
(LOAN 2721-BR)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface          ...................................................                                                  i
Evaluation Summary . ..............................................  iii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                                               ........   1
A.   Project Identity  .........................................                                            1
B. Background ............................................   1
C.   Project Objectives and Description    ............................                                     3
D.   Project Design and Organization   ..............................                                       4
E.   Loan Agreement Amendments and Project Restructuring   ...............                                  4
F.   Project Implementation  ....................................                                           5
G.   Results  .       .............................................                                         8
H.   Sustainability   .         .........................................                                   9
I.    Bank and Borrower Performance  ..............................    10
J.    Lessons to be Drawn for Future PSM  Technical
Assistance Projects ............                   ...........................    11
K.   Project Relationships ...........                    ...........................    13
L.   Consulting Services  ...........                     ...........................    13
M.   Project Documentation and Data   ..............................    13
II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVES .....;.....  15
A.   Highlights  ............................................                                              15
B.   Conclusions  ...........................................                                              19
C.   Comments on Part I and II of this Project Completion Report  ....                        ........   19
D.   Generalities, Objectives and Description   .........................    19
E.   Project Design and Organization   ..............................    20
F. Loan Amendments ........................................  20
G.   Project Implementation  .............                      .......................    20
H. Project Results ..........................................  21
I.    Sustainability   ..........................................    22
J.    Performance of the World Bank .........                       ......................    22
K.   Performance of the Borrower  ..........                       ......................    23
L. Hiring of Consultants ......................................  23
M.  Disbursements ..........................................   23
N. Lessons to be Learned ......................................  24
0.   Working Relationship Among Bank Officials, Local
Staff and Consultants . .....................................  25
P.    Components Performance .............                        ......................    25
Q.   Statistical Data  .       ........................................    25



Attachment           ..............................................                                                 26
III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION ..................................  28
1. Project Timetable .........................................  28
2.    Loans Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and
Actual Disbursements  .            ....................................    29
3.  Project Financing .........................................  30
3B.  Project Cost Breakdown by Component ..........................   31
4.    Status of Legal Covenants  ...........                     .......................    32
5A. Use of Bank Resources . ....................................  34
5B.  Missions  .............................................                                               35
6.    Related Operation   .          ......................................    36
ANNEX  1.  Assessment by Component ..........                            ........................    37



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2721-BR)
PREFACE
1.        This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Public Sector
Management Loan in Brazil, for which loan 2721 in the amount of US$ 29 million was
approved on June 19, 1986. The loan was closed on December 31, 1993 (the original
closing date was December 31, 1990). Total disbursements amounted to US$ 24 million.
The amount of US$ 5 million was cancelled as of March 15, 1991.
2.        Isabel Serrao Emerson was task manager of the Public Sector Management
Loan. Rainer B. Steckhan was the Director and Demetris Papageorgiou the Division
Chief.
3.         The PCR was prepared by Isabel Serrao Emerson. Denise von Gersdorff
prepared the sections on background, implementation and Part III. This report is based
on the President's Report (Report No. P-4336-BR), information gathered during
supervision missions and other cited documents.
4.         The Government of Brazil, as represented by the Institute of Applied
Economic Research, prepared Part II of the PCR.






PROJECT COMOPLETION REPORT
BRAZI
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2721-BR)
EVALUATION SUIMMARY
Introduction
1.          The Public Sector Management Loan (2721-BR) was the first Bank loan
explicitly designed to strengthen public sector capacity at the Federal level in Brazil. In
much of its previous lending the Bank had sought to improve planning and management
capabilities of agencies at the sectoral, state, and municipal levels, responsible for the
execution of Bank projects. The loan was signed in July 1986 for an amount of US$29
million and became effective December 1986. In March 1991 US$5.0 million was
cancelled. It was implemented over a period of seven years from effectiveness in 1986 to
closing in 1993.
2.          The loan was experimental in nature and complex in its design. It was
intended as an umbrella funding structure for activities that would encourage the
development and strengthening of research, planning, and management capacity at the
Federal level.
Design and Objectives
3.          The loan addressed issues of governance by developing programs to
improve overall public sector management, particularly the management of public
expenditures, human resource development, and parastatal reform. Its objectives were to
ensure economic and financial accountability through multi-year investment plans;
predictability in the application of rules and regulations; and to improve the availability of
and access to accurate information about the economy, market conditions, and the
intentions of Government, to promote transparency in decision-making. The research
component complemented the Bank's Economic and Sector Work. The Planning
(SEPLAN) and Finance (MOF) Ministries were the beneficiaries. The Ministry of
Foreign Affairs was added in 1990 when funds were reallocated from non-performing
components.
4.          The Project was to support President Sarney's reform program in three
main areas: (i) improving the preparation of the Public Investment Program and
strengthening control and monitoring of the Federal budget; (ii) increasing the efficiency,
monitoring the performance, and promoting the privatization of state enterprises; and (iii)
providing research studies to serve as the basis for further improvement in public sector
management and for more fundamental administrative and governmental reforms. The
project hoped to support institutional development and reform in both Ministries and,



- iv -
more broadly, Government efforts to utilize resources, including those for state
enterprises, more effectively.
5.          Project design was ambitious and involved a large number of institutions
who did not share a common view on the steps necessary to achieve institutional
strengthening. Risks associated with the coordination, control, and supervision of several
complex and multisectoral components were correctly identified in the President's Report
but not reflected in the loan's implementation schedule. Project design mandated that all
components operate within SEPLAN or the MOF, or in agencies directly connected to
them. However, the expected ease in project coordination and control provided by this
connection was grossly overestimated. This was especially true over the long life of the
loan because several agencies were added at the request of new administrations.
Implementation Experience
6.          The pace of implementation was slower than expected because of a series
of leadership and institutional changes. These changes altered the organization,
objectives, and modus operandi of the entities whose activities were supported by the
Project; therefore, institutional strengthening programs had to be repeatedly adapted.
Such was the case with the Project's executing agencies SEPLAN and MOF, as well as
the Applied Economic Research Institute (IPEA), the Federal training centers, and the
Federal Administration Secretariat.
7.          While the loan made important contributions to the survival of IPEA, the
Government's main research institute, in a time of drastic Federal budget cuts, long-term
contributions were circumscribed by a deterioration in the climate of reform initiated by
President Sarney, and by a weakening in resolve of subsequent administrations to
continue reform. Chronic political and economic instability and the drastic erosion of
economic institutions, policies, and administrative infrastructure further precluded the
sustainability of intended reforms. Thus, the loan's performance was mixed. It was
successful in its short-term technical objectives (ie. training) but achieved less in its long-
term institution building objectives.
8.          The areas of greatest success were those aimed at relatively concrete
outcomes which linked performance to accountability. The components that addressed
technical gaps, identified through the Bank's economic sector work in coordination with
the institutions themselves, were those that benefited most from the loan. Their work
programs were focused, with defined implementation schedules calling for technical
reforms rather than for operational changes. Activities which fall into this category
include the training on the Federal Expenditures Control Network, the 1990 population
census, the registration of Federal properties for tax collection purposes, and policy
analysis studies with legislative impact, such as the targeted hunger alleviation programs
implemented by the Government. In the case of the Statistics Institute, the loan



v 
supported ongoing administrative reform by financing the modernization of the National
Accounts methodology.
9.          The weakest areas were those requiring a long-term commitment to reform
(public enterprise restructuring, budget monitoring, multi-year Federal investment
planning, administrative reform). Government instability and inflation had a pervasive
effect on Project execution. The failure to come to grips with stabilization meant that
investment budgets were targets for spending cuts. Counterpart funds were reduced to
levels incompatible with the recommendations for restructuring or with those suggested
by the performance audits. The components which were unable to execute activities as
originally planned remained unable to disburse throughout and had their funds
reallocated.
10.         Implementation was affected by: (a) the failure of economic stabilization
plans (Plano Cruzado, Plano Verao, Plano Collor) and the persistence of inflation, and
(b) constant political instability (the 1985 transition to a Democratic-Constitutional
government; the 1988 Constitution's administrative reform changes; President Collor's
1990 administrative reform and his disruptive impeachment process). The situation was
further aggravated since project coordination was scattered among many executing
agencies. Given this highly volatile scenario, the Public Sector Management Loan
(PSML) was forced to constantly adapt. In total there were three amendments to the loan
agreement in order to meet the changing priorities of each economic plan and political
agenda and to unify Project management under IPEA.
11.         The Bank's supervision of the Project was intensive. During seventeen
supervision missions extensive discussions were held with the Government concerning
work programs and loan restructuring. Several proposed programs, which were
negotiated intensely, were not implemented (the restructuring of the customs
administration, the Federal employment registry, the commercial promotion information
system, and the international market information system). These had been designed
during a particular administration but were not carried forward by subsequent
administrations.
Sustainability
12.         The Sarney administration marked the return to a fully democratic
Government. In 1985, the economic outlook for the new stabilization package and its
"cruzado" currency reform was encouraging. The Government's commitment to public
sector reform was evident. However, political instability, a characteristic of fledgling
democracies, was underestimated. Commitment of key Government officials existed at
the outset, but it waned as these individuals were replaced. Overall sustainability of
reforms under the conditions Brazil faced in the late 1980s and early 1990s, was unlikely
under the best of circumstances. The Constitutional revision in 1988, the 1990



- vi -
administrative reform and President Collor's impeachment caused enormous
discontinuity.
13.         The systems developed were not implemented either because of lack of
counterpart funds, or shifts in administration priorities, or because short-term crisis
management took precedence over long-term system implementation. It is unclear if the
Borrower has alternative provisions to support the services and to deepen institutional
investment made under the Project. Research components and training activities, which
lacked transparency and clear direction, did not result in sustainable reform. In addition,
a comprehensive evaluation of IPEA's research is subjective since the Loan Agreement
did not clearly define or bind research output to specific objectives.
14.         Without substantial modification of the conditions of pay and employment
for civil servants in Brazil, the sustainability of administrative and institutional efforts is
unlikely. The absence of uniform and transparent personnel policies creates uncertainty
in the organizational environment, and lowers staff motivation and morale. Because of
inflation and fiscal difficulties, the real salaries of civil servants have eroded. Inadequate
wage policies and loss of experienced staff during the Collor administrative reform
drastically weakened the technical capacity of the civil service and therefore the ability to
continue intended reforms. Training activities are effective in the transfer of technical
capacity but cannot compensate for inadequate public sector wage levels.
Findings and Lessons Learned
15.         In 1987, following the failure of the Cruzado plan, preoccupation with
short term problems tended to take precedence over medium and long term programming
and policy formulation. The loan came to serve as a mechanism for loosely controlled
short-term crisis management. Many of its activities responded to the exigencies of the
rapidly deteriorating economic and political environment rather than the intended long-
term institutional strengthening and transfer of management capacity. However, a
number of components did result in long-term institutional strengthening, such as the
modernization of the National Accounts methodology and the implementation of a
financial management control system.
16.         Few institution-building efforts could have survived the pervasive negative
effects of inflation, frequent changes in economic stabilization plans, and the political
instability experienced during the life of this loan. There are several key lessons that can
be identified. Project design should not be overly ambitious, particularly in turbulent
administrative and political environments. The size of the loan, its operational
complexity, and the number of component activities taxed the capability of the Borrower,
as well as, the Bank's. In order to ease counterpart funding and implementation
provisions, the design of public sector loans should avoid multiple objectives and complex
institutional arrangements.



- vii -
17.         Flexibility in the reallocation of funds should be carefully weighed against
the dangers of overextending the absorption capacity of the Government. PSMLs usually
have a longer life than initially estimated, carrying over into new administrations, hence
project activities should be clearly designed with terms of reference and a blueprint
agreed to prior to loan signature. In this manner the project can obtain firm budget
commitments and design linkages to insure follow-up actions. Conflicts between short
term funding exigencies and the long term needs of strategic institution building can be
avoided. The presence of unallocated funds creates pressures, sometimes from very high
Government sources, to finance low priority activities. In this Project, the four
extensions of the closing date of one year or less did not allow sufficient time for long
term institutional strengthening activities. Concentration of project management in a
single executing agency, responsible for overall project administration and budgetary
allocations, increases implementation effectiveness.






BRAZIL
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2721-BR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  Project Identity
Project Name:   Public Sector Management Loan
Loan Number:  2721-BR
Regional Unit:  Latin America and the Caribbean
Country:       Brazil
Sector:        Public Sector Management
B.   Background
1.        The Public Sector Management Loan (PSML) was initially discussed with the
Government in mid-1984 and identified in 1985. This was a year marked by political
turmoil. Mr. Tancredo Neves, Brazil's first civilian President in 21 years, died before he
took office. His election had fulfilled a major step towards the return to a fully
democratic government. The transition Government was led by Vice-President elect
turned President, Mr. Jose Sarney. He was faced with the task of pursuing Mr. Neves'
political agenda while establishing his own authority in the new democracy.
2.        The Government launched a new stabilization program on February 28, 1986.
Until then, the inflation outlook for 1986 was threatening. Inflationary factors included
the disappearance of excess capacity in a number of industries, the pressures to raise
wages to pre-recession levels and to protect workers from higher future inflation, the
poor agricultural harvest, and the need to raise public sector tariffs and prices. In the
three prior years, inflation levels had remained at 200-250% annually. The economy
reacted quickly to new, negative shocks, and the indexation system made it hard to bring
inflation down, once the shocks were reflected in the price index. The new program
sought to eliminate the impact of past indexed inflation and to change future inflation
expectations. Its features included a currency reform with the introduction of a new
currency, the cruzado (worth 1,000 cruzeiros), and other sweeping financial reforms
accompanied by a continued effort to reduce the fiscal deficit and to use monetary policy
to stabilize and, if possible, reduce real exchange rates.
3.        Initial political and public reactions to the program were highly positive. The
medium-term economic outlook for Brazil was thus encouraging, assuming the
maintenance of a sound exchange rate policy, reasonable success in the implementation of
the new stabilization package, and the administration's determination to reduce the public
sector deficit.
4.        The Sarney administration was committed to reversing state involvement in
fostering economic growth by following a development strategy which relied primarily on
private sector initiative. The Government wished to concentrate on more "traditional"
functions, such as the provision of social services and basic infrastructure, leaving
directly productive activities for private sector initiative. Reform of the public sector was
a recognized strategic objective. This context provided a positive backdrop for
administrative reform.



-2-
5.         A World Bank identification mission stimulated Planning Ministry
(SEPLAN) interest in a PSML in June of 1984. Proposals were fully discussed and
elaborated during a November 1984 preparation mission but it was agreed that, with the
impending change of government, project processing would be put on hold.
6.        Further delays in Project preparation were caused by Mr. Tancredo Neves'
illness and death. In June 1985, SEPLAN asked the Bank to resume processing of the
loan. Detailed planning started a month later. The Bank identified a technical assistance
project to be implemented by SEPLAN and the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The Project
would support President Samey's reform program in three main areas: (i) improving the
preparation of the Public Investment Program and strengthen the monitoring and control
of the Federal budget; (ii) increasing the efficiency, monitoring the performance, and
promoting the privatization of state enterprises; and (iii) providing research studies to
serve as the basis for further improvement in public sector management and for more
fundamental administrative and governmental reforms. The project would support
institutional development and reform in both Ministries and, more broadly, Government
efforts to utilize resources, including those for state enterprises, more effectively.
7.         SEPLAN components were appraised by the Bank in October 1985 and
MOF components in February 1986. Subsequent negotiations in May 1986, led to Bank
and Government signing the Loan Agreement on July 7, 1986, for a total amount of
US$29 million. The loan became effective on December 16, 1986. Three amendments
to the Loan Agreement were signed in August 1988, February 1990, and March 1991.
US$5 million was cancelled in March 1991.
Federal Administration Reform Program
8.        In 1985 President Sarney initiated a Federal Administration Reform Program
modeled after the program instituted in the state of Maranhao during his tenure as
Governor. The program was comprehensive in that it dealt systematically and
simultaneously with all key variables in the Brazilian administrative environment seeking
to adopt a series of congruent, mutually supportive changes. Bank support was tailored
to the program through the financing of administrative reform studies to be undertaken by
the SEPLAN component.
Links Between the PSML and the Bank's Lending Strategy for Brazil
9.         The primary objective of the Bank's lending strategy was to support Brazil's
structural adjustment program. Three loans (Public Sector Management/2721-BR,
Electric Power Sector Loan/2720-BR and Credit and Marketing Reform/2727-BR), in
particular, contributed to the implementation of the structural reform. In spite of its
small size (US$29 million), the PSML was the operation directly linked to Brazil's
structural adjustment program because it would support and promote the capacity of the
Government to process this program. The Power Sector Rehabilitation Loan deepened, at
the sectoral level, the structural adjustment of the public sector and supported the
maintenance of essential infrastructure. The Credit and Marketing Reform Loan
introduced major steps towards deregulation of the economy, and towards a fully market-
oriented agricultural policy.
10.       The PSML was the first Bank loan explicitly designed to strengthen public
sector capacity at the Federal level. In much of its previous lending the Bank had sought
to improve planning and management capabilities of agencies at the sectoral, state and
municipal levels, responsible for the execution of projects supported by Bank loans.



- 3 -
11.       Given the need for constant Bank supervision in such a complex project, the
close cooperation between the Bank, SEPLAN and MOF was expected to further
strengthen the already strong operational links between the Bank and Brazil. The Bank's
own capacity to monitor and effectively assist Brazil's development efforts would thus be
enhanced. For instance, the Bank's annual review and assessment of the Brazilian Public
Sector Investment Program and its related budgetary information, was a very important
macroeconomic condition of the PSML in support of the structural adjustment process.
C.  Project Objectives and Description
Broad Objectives
12.       The loan was intended to strengthen the management and planning
capabilities of the Federal government. These objectives were to be achieved by
improving Government methodologies and criteria in the allocation of human resources,
financial and material goods, as well as by strengthening the Government's ability to
supervise and manage the implementation of its programs and operations.
13.       The loan addressed issues of governance by developing programs to improve
overall Public Sector Management particularly the management of public expenditures,
human resource development and parastatal reform; ensuring both economic and financial
accountability through multi-year investment plans; ensuring predictability in the
application of rules and regulations; and ensuring the availability of, and access to,
accurate information about the economy, market conditions and the intentions of
Government affecting the transparency of decision-making.
Specific Objectives
14.       During appraisal, institutional capacity gaps were identified and evaluated.
The Project, as originally developed, consisted of:
(a)  an integrated program designed to strengthen the management capabilities of
the SEPLAN system to: (i) develop sector and project analysis, multi-year
investment planning and social program monitoring; (ii) improve budget
planning; (iii) expand management training; iv) produce priority economic
and social research; (v) improve economic and social information systems
including the review of the national accounts system; and (vi) carry out
research studies to support wider administrative reform (ie., the Federal
Administrative Reform Program).
(b)  a major component managed by the Secretariat for State Enterprises (SEST)
to: (i) institute performance evaluations; (ii) develop 30 enterprise
rehabilitation programs; and (iii) strengthen the Secretariat's capacity for
diversified control of state-owned enterprises; and
(c)  the establishment and operation at MOF's National Treasury Secretariat of (i)
an integrated budget information and control system; and (ii) to improve
Government assets administration and training for Federal, State and
Municipal auditors, including those responsible for the auditing standards for
Federal Government projects supported by the Bank.



- 4-
D.  Project Design and Organization
15.       The project was initially managed by the two key economic Ministries,
Planning and Finance. In order to execute the project several agencies were involved.
SEPLAN managed eight subcomponents: CENDEC, IPLAN, INPES, PEPP,
SOF, SEMOR/SRH, SEST and IBGE.
MOF managed six subcomponents: Privatization, STN/PAAG/TCU,
STN/SIAFI, SPU, SRF, and SEAE.
16.       The second amendment added the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Tax
Revenue Department as a beneficiaries. In 1990, SEPLAN was merged into the Super
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning (MEFP). Project administration was unified
at SEPLAN's Institute of Applied Economic Research (IPEA) and the MEFP's Federal
Center for Data Processing Services became a component of the loan.
17.       In a broader effort to strengthen official auditing capabilities at Federal, state
and municipal levels, an advanced training program in Government auditing was offered
to the Federal and State Audit Offices. The program concentrated on the introduction of
modern auditing standards and methods, financial reporting and related disciplines
required for effective public sector auditing. The ten-course training program was
designed to heighten accountability, transparency and predictability in the application of
auditing rules and procedures.
18.       The Project's design focused on areas of critical importance for public sector
management in Brazil. Nevertheless, with hindsight, it is clear that the multiple Project
activities and the involvement of numerous organizational entities overextended the
absorption capacity of the Government. The complex institutional arrangements furthered
bureaucratic inefficiency in the processing of terms of reference.
19.       The Project had a longer life than initially estimated, overlapping
administrations. It was so broadly defined in the President's Report that three successive
administrations with varying ideologies and economic programs reinterpreted the Loan
Agreement to fit their priorities and redirectioned funds. As with most Bank technical
assistance Projects, the Brazil Project allowed considerable flexibility in the use of funds.
In addition, the design of the Project was weak because it lacked a clear and concise
blueprint describing the steps and actions necessary to achieve the desired objectives
leaving room for broad interpretations as to what constituted institutional development.
E.   Loan Agreement Amendments and Project Restructuring
20.       The project was amended three times, in August 1988, February 1990 and
March 1991, in order to include new components: modernization of tax administration,
modernization of the Federal Center for Data Processing Services, the agency responsible
for the data processing system of the MEFP, and strengthening of trade and technical
cooperation services.
21.       The loan was amended to increase its relevance to the changes in public
administration brought on by the 1988 Constitution and by the downsizing of the public
sector pursued by the Collor administration in 1990 (SEPLAN was merged into the
MEFP and 100,000 employees were dismissed or retired). Loan funds were re-allocated
to reflect the new Government's priorities and to provide essential background



- 5 -
information for the Government and the Bank in connection with perspective public sector
reform operations.
22.       The first amendment, in 1988, tailored the loan to organizational changes,
such as the transfer of the Secretariat for State Enterprises to the MOF and the transfer of
the production of national accounts from the Getulio Vargas Foundation to the National
Statistical Institute (IBGE). In addition, a provision for the construction of the National
Statistical Institute's regional offices, in the states of Mato Grosso and Amazonas, had not
been clearly specified in the original Loan Agreement. For disbursement purposes, the
loan would have to finance 100% of the costs of these works.
23.       The second amendment reallocated funds from the research components and
the Secretariat for State Enterprises to two new beneficiaries, the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, and the Department of Federal Revenue (under SEPLAN).
24.       Two proposals from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were originally
considered, a Commercial Promotion Information System and an International Market
Information System. However, loan funds were not used to develop these systems. Only
in 1992 were loan funds actually used to develop an online system, to store all the
documentation and information produced by the Mercosul trade negotiations. The system
was also partly financed by UNDP.
25.       The Federal Tax Administration program focused on three areas: (i)
restructuring customs and the administrative structure of the Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro
tax offices and undertaking studies on Federal, state and municipal tax coordination
mechanisms to adapt them to the changes mandated by the new Constitution; (ii) training
to enable staff to understand the program of technological modernization (Programa de
Actualizacao Tecnol6gica-PAT) and (iii) producing studies to evaluate the PAT.
26.       The third amendment streamlined the Project by reducing the number of
components (from 13 to 8) and by cancelling US$5.0 million in the loan's amount. The
loan's executors, SEPLAN and MOF, were merged into the broader Ministry of
Economy, Finance and Planning. The overall administrative and financial responsibility
for the execution of the Project was unified under IPEA. A Project Management Unit
was established and became responsible for the overall budgetary allocation, thereby
eliminating past experiences of inadvertent omission of the project or parts of it from the
Federal budget. The Project Management Unit ensured a more policy-oriented project
because of its link to high-level Government officials at the MEFP.
27.       Two components were expanded: the Federal Assets Administration (DPU)
and the Administrative Reform, which was carried out by the Secretariat for Federal
Administration. The agency responsible for data processing at the MEFP, the Federal
Center for Data Processing Services, was added as a beneficiary. Eight components
(INPES, IPLAN, CENDEC, PEPP, SEAE, INOR, IPEA and Privatization) were merged
into IPEA. The reformulated IPEA component had similar objectives - institutional
strengthening and improvement of technical capability.
F.   Project Implementation
28.       The PSML was implemented over seven years, a substantially longer period
than the estimated four years. Four extensions of one year or less were provided
(December 1991, December 1992, June 1993 and December 1993). They supported in-
coming administrations and enabled the completion of priority components (policy



- 6 -
analysis, the audit courses, and the registration of properties on Federal land). The
implementation of the Project suffered because of political instability. This factor, a
characteristic of fledgling democracies, was not properly gauged at inception. Secondly,
Brazil's restrictive procurement legislation posed many difficulties in the hiring of
services of third parties. Given that the loan was very consultant-intensive, this delayed
the execution of the project. The problem was circumvented at a later stage once all
components signed management contracts with UNDP (with the exception of two
components, the Attomey General's Office and Federal Government Assets
Administration).
29.        Risks associated with the coordination, management and supervision of
several complex and multisectoral components were correctly identified in the President's
Report but not reflected in the loan's implementation schedule. The pace of
implementation was slower than anticipated, and disbursement levels were consistently
lower than expected because of: (i) institutional reorganizations and changes in the
functions of public entities in charge of Project components; (ii) frequent changes in the
leadership at the Ministerial, Secretary-General, Director and Project Coordinator levels;
(iii) delays in the use of funds resulting from the Project's inadvertent omission from the
1989 Federal budget; (iv) the inability to fully execute reforms due to administrative
discontinuity.
30.        As with most Bank technical assistance projects, the Brazil project allowed
considerable flexibility in the use of funds. This flexibility created management
problems. The availability of undisbursed funds created pressures, sometimes from very
high Government sources, to finance low-priority activities. This placed the project's
Brazilian coordinator and Bank staff in an awkward position and led to less than optimal
allocations of funds. Pressures to disburse justified the addition of activities whose
impact on institutional strengthening was minimal (staff motivation training for the
Attorney General's Office, for example). Reallocations of funds and extensions of
Closing Dates were approved to demonstrate the Bank's support for incoming
administrations. However, the four extensions of one year or less created unrealistic
deadlines which affected the quality of execution.
31.        Project design was complex, ambitious and led to the fragmentation of funds
among the thirteen disassociated components. The loan served as a mechanism for short-
term management by financing routine activities such as the production of economic
indicators; and activities not directly linked to the intended institutional strengthening and
transfer of management capacity. Given the nature of the loan, it was difficult for the
Bank to justify the concentration of funds onto targeted activities.
32.        Planned and actual project implementation differed in the budget monitoring,
public enterprise restructuring, and multi-year investment plan components. Studies of
the budgetary practices constituted one of the key elements of the loan. However the
Budget and Finance Secretariat showed virtually no interest in using loan resources
during the first two and a half years of Project execution. The Secretariat was reluctant
to use loan funds because the corrective actions needed to restructure the budget required
the Government's willingness to commit to difficult political decisions.  These funds
were eventually re-allocated. The public enterprise restructuring component, which had a
promising launch, did not go ahead because the Government's commitment to the
privatization of state-owned enterprises changed between administrations. The multi-year
investment plan was not carried out from 1989 until 1991 because inflation rendered it an
ineffective planning tool.



- 7 -
33.       The Bank showed flexibility in assessing performance and in re-directing
funds to priority areas as defined by incoming administrations and in adapting the Project
to the new federal structure adopted by the Collor administration. In an effort to
provide continuity, the Project's scope was redefined, components were restructured and
funds were reallocated to performing components. Despite the turmoil, some important
objectives were achieved, in particular the SIAFI, IBGE, SPU and IPEA policy
evaluation studies (see Annex 1: Assessment by Component).
34.       After the third and final Loan Agreement amendment, project organization
and coordination improved considerably. The Bank relied on the enlarged supervision
role performed by the project manager at IPEA. IPEA's management team, headed by
IPEA's Financial and Administrative Director, managed efficiently and supervised Project
implementation while complying with Bank procedures in a timely fashion.
35.       In retrospect, implementation was affected by two main factors: the failure
of economic stabilization plans (Plano Cruzado, Plano Verao, Plano Collor) and the
persistence of inflation. Moreover, constant political instability (the 1985 transition to a
Democratic-Constitutional government; the 1988 Constitution's administrative reform
changes; President Collor's 1990 administrative reform and his disruptive impeachment
process) strongly affected the Govemment's ability to carry out long-term institutional
development.
36.       The presence of several components in various Government entities, rather
than accelerating or contributing to changes, usually delayed the reform process and the
effectiveness of the loan. Bank staff tried to limit the number of implementing agencies
without success. In 1992, ostensibly only seven implementing agencies were financed,
but IPEA added six other agencies as sub-components, bringing the total of agencies to
thirteen. The Bank disagreed with the Government's decision to disperse funds among so
many agencies and repeatedly advised them against it. Nevertheless, the Government's
severe fiscal deficit, combined with the availability of PSML funds, led them to maintain
this decision.
37.       Serious problems occurred in two components, the ten-course training
program for Federal and state auditors and the administrative reform carried out by the
Federal Administration Secretariat. The implementation of the auditing program was
turbulent. The Loan Agreement did not clearly specify which agency would manage the
audit training for the states. The establishment of an administrative structure and
program logistics (which states would participate and where the courses would be held)
required extensive negotiations among the several entities concerned. This protracted and
costly process delayed the initiation of course activities. The agency chosen to administer
the project, the MEFP's training center, was weak and had problems in keeping accurate
reports on expenditures and paying consultants in a timely fashion. Furthermore, in
1990, the agency was abolished and reinstated later in the year, causing a serious
disruption in the scheduling of the program. The program's estimated duration of 16
months extended to four years.
38.       The auditing program given at the Federal Audit Office was unsuccessful.
After the program was given it was verified that the auditing techniques taught were not
applicable to the methodology or to the software system used by the office. The program
failed to take into account the Federal Audit Office's audit methods and to incorporate
them into the program's design, which resulted in a lack of transfer of skills to on-the-job
applications.



-8-
39.       In 1991 unbeknownst to the Bank, the Federal Administration Secretariat
signed a management contract with UNDP for a US$ 1 million work program. This US$
1 million was allocated to the Secretariat in the beginning of 1991. Since it had difficulty
in formulating proposals, at the close of 1991, the Bank recommended the component's
cancellation. However, UNDP had advanced payment in the amount of US$ 219,000 for
three activities under this component, which the Bank had not previously reviewed. As
an exception, the Bank agreed post-facto to clear the terms of reference and to authorize
the continuation of the activities. The activities approved were a registration system for
Federal suppliers of goods and services, a study on management contracts, municipal
training (limited to the state of Minas Gerais) and a political science study on
parliamentarianism.
G.  Results
40.       The Project financed activities in three broad areas:
(a)  Policy Studies. The loan supported analysis in macroeconomic and sector
policies, public expenditure reviews and assisted policy makers analyze policy
options, policy implementation and monitor reforms (IPEA).
(b)  Institutional Development. The loan focused on building sustainable domestic
capacity within targeted institutions. The funds were used for diagnostic and
institutional analysis, corporate strategy formulation, management capacity
building, organizational restructuring, and the development of information
and decision support systems (SIAFI, IBGE, SPU, DRF, SERPRO).
(c)  Management of Planning and Budgeting Processes. The loan intended to
improve civil service management (SAF); streamline and strengthen public
investment planning and budgetary practices (IPEA/SOF); strengthen the
accounting profession (PAAG); improve governance and evaluation systems
(SEPLAN); facilitate decentralization, public enterprise restructuring, and
analyze privatization measures (SEST).
41.       The results were mixed. The areas of greatest success were those aimed at
relatively focused outcomes which linked performance to accountability. The weakest
areas were those requiring a long term commitment to reform (public enterprise
restructuring, budget monitoring, multi-year Federal investment planning, administrative
reform). Short term pressures, inconsistencies in economic policies, political instability
and constant turnover in policy formulators, worked against lasting institutional reforms.
The components which were unable to execute activities as originally planned remained
unable to disburse throughout and had their funds reallocated. The restructured Project's
outcome was satisfactory. Most of the beneficiary institutions took the necessary steps to
develop work plans consistent with the Project's guidelines.
42.       The Project has: (i) produced a significant amount of policy analysis
(published by IPEA) (ii) developed computerized information systems (IBGE and IPEA);
and (iii) strengthened management capacity (DRF, SPU, CENDEC training, TCEs).
Several studies had far-reaching legislative impact. They were conducted in close
coordination with SEPLAN and have generated action plans and recommendations
instrumental to the design of new laws in the education, health and rural sectors.
Examples include a targeted nutrition program and an emergency hunger alleviation
program for Northeast drought victims.



- 9 -
43.       A comprehensive evaluation of IPEA's research is subjective since the Loan
Agreement did not clearly define or bind research output to specific objectives. While
the research provided the Government with information on several public sector issues
and policy options, recommendations did not necessarily lead to policy formulation. The
implementation of several study recommendations did not go forward, such as the fiscal
reform study. Execution was stalled because of the climate of political uncertainty
brought on with each new administration.
44.       The Project supported IPEA's immediate needs for program continuity in the
face of turbulent administrative, economic and political times. Due to fiscal constraints it
would have been impossible to obtain financing for research studies and consulting
services crucial to the continuation of public sector modernization efforts. The loan
financed these activities.
45.       Several of the activities included after the loan's extensions performed
satisfactorily, although their long term impact to institutional strengthening is doubtful
(ie., motivational training at the Attorney General's Office, an agency which operates
with transient staff, the Federal Audit Office's 1992 training, and IPEA's Quality and
Productivity Program, which is no longer a priority of the government).
46.       Overall, the Project suffered because of fiscal constraints. Delays in
expenditure payment, and quantitative limits set on expenditures became mechanisms to
adjust the Federal budget. This affected the long term impact of the activities such as the
implementation of a registry system on Federal Government suppliers at the Federal
Administration Secretariat. In some components, a prime example would be IPEA, the
assistance was seen (and used) as a temporary maintenance program for technical
personnel, a stop-gap measure to retain skills needed during the "transitions" from one
administrative reorganization to the next.
H.  Sustainability
47.       It is difficult to make judgements on the longer-term sustainability of efforts
aimed at institutional strengthening. The expectation of achieving institutional
development through one time transfers of expertise is not realistic. However, some key
components will maintain a level of net benefits. The National Statistical Institute now
produces more accurate and disaggregated data quickly, since adopting the French
statistical methodology, decentralizing the process of data collection and purchasing
modern computer hardware and software. The training program offered for the Federal
Expenditures Control Network staff has improved the accuracy, flow and availability of
data. The only component which has achieved measurable fiscal benefits was the Federal
Assets Administration. In 1993 revenue generated from taxes on properties sitting on
Federal lands increased by 31 %. The Data Processing Center has increased the
efficiency and the quality of service to its clients. IPEA was able to continue its function
as a policy analysis institute in the face of a drastic cut in personnel and resources.
48.       The integration of macroeconomic information networks across different
public entities has resulted in more efficient communication and resource allocation
among several agencies. The open architecture of the equipment installed at IPEA
(modern computers and software) provides a sound platform for increasing capacity and
automatization. The most pressing problem in terms of sustainability is the additional
funding required to make the system fully operational.



- 10 -
49.       The Project had a strong impact on the institutional development of the State
Audit Offices through the audit training program.
50.       Overall sustainability of reforms under the conditions Brazil faced in the late
1980s and early 1990s, was unlikely under the best of circumstances. The Constitutional
revision in 1988, the 1990 administrative reform and President Collor's impeachment
caused enormous discontinuity. Short-term pressures, inconsistencies in the economic
policy and changes in the policy makers, have all worked against lasting institutional
reforms. In addition, it is unclear if the Borrower has alternative provisions to support
the services and to deepen institutional investment made under the Project.
51.       In a number of activities sustainability is uncertain due mainly to the
difficulties in retaining qualified civil servants. A small but meaningful portion of the
consultant services provided was destined for stop-gap management and technical advice.
I.   Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank Performance
52.       The need for continued commitment of Bank staff and of Brazilian
component managers in such a large and diverse public sector management initiative was
clearly identified in the President's Report. A Project Launch Seminar, held immediately
after loan signing, acted as a catalyst in inducing component managers to tackle the
complex organizational and procedural problems inherent in the Project. Although the
Project had a number of distinct components, its design mandated that all components
operate within SEPLAN or MOF, or in agencies directly connected to them. However,
the expected ease in project coordination and control provided by this connection was
grossly overestimated. As new administrations took office and changed the
responsibilities of Ministries and related agencies, this connection was weakened. In
addition, from 1986-87, the Bank's supervision of the project was caught in the internal
dynamics of the Bank's reorganization. Initial Project Task Managers were relocated and
supervisory continuity weakened.
53.       The lack of clarity and specificity in the original legal documents in regard to
the National Statistical Institute regional offices and to the auditing program, and the
numerous changes in Ministers and Project coordinators, meant that the Bank had to
spend considerable time, after loan effectiveness, discussing and amending the Loan
Agreement to establish new implementing structures required to keep the project on track.
54.       Overall, the Bank's supervisory performance was strong. Over seventeen
supervision missions, with an adequate skill mix of professionals, held extensive
discussions with the Government concerning work programs and loan restructuring. In
an effort to provide continuity to the Project, the overall scope of the Project was
redefined, components were restructured and funds were reallocated to performing
components. Strong decision-making with regard to the public entities (Secretariat for
State Enterprises) and budget components (IPEA's National Planning Institute, Budget
and Finance Secretariat) resulted in the reallocation of loan funds to performing
components. The Bank strove to enhance the project consistency with the Govemment's
development strategy.



- 11 -
Borrower Performance
55.       The PSML was the first loan of its kind and it required an adjustment period.
The decision to involve so many implementing agencies resulted in difficult supervision
and poor coordination of activities. Once Project management and overall financial and
administrative responsibility were unified at IPEA, execution improved. Nonetheless, the
tendency to include many agencies without clear benefits to administrative strengthening
was still present.
56.       The loan suffered from a dearth of experienced technicians to implement the
PSML programs since they either were dismissed or took advantage of the generous early
retirement packages offered. As a consequence, at IPEA the loan was used to finance
research assistants to compensate for experienced personnel that had left or were loaned
out to other institutions that could offer higher gratuities.
Procurement and Disbursement
57.       Disbursement was lower than expected because: (i) in 1989, there was a
delay in the use of funds since the Project had been inadvertently omitted from the
original 1989 Federal budget and work started in earnest only by the third quarter of the
year; (ii) in 1990, the delays in Congressional approval of the 1990 revised Federal
Budget affected the implementation of ongoing activities; and (iii) in 1991 the
Government curtailed budgetary outflows as a measure to control inflation and public
spending. Funds were curtailed irrespective of their sources. The effects of inflation on
foreign funds included in the Federal budget's bill has negatively impacted Project
execution. The amount allocated to an agency at the beginning of the year in cruzeiros is
not fully corrected to the US dollar equivalent by the end of the year.
58.       Use of the Government's bidding process seriously delayed implementation
and affected quality since the inefficient procedures make it very difficult to hire
individual consultants in an inflationary environment. The inflexibility of the Brazilian
legislation in regards to the hiring of consultants affected seriously the capability of the
executing agencies to hire consultants and purchase goods delaying the implementation of
the Project. The conflict between the Bank's guideline for procurement and for
consultants and the Brazilian legislation should have been recognized at the design stage
and dealt earlier on in the Project's life.
59.       To facilitate implementation and disbursement, funds were channelled
through UNDP cost sharing arrangements. The arrangement was useful to the Borrower
because: (i) it avoided internal systemic obstacles (legal and financial), (ii) it benefited
from UNDP's technical expertise in drafting terms of reference selecting consultants and
negotiating contracts, and (iii) importing goods (computers and the like) was facilitated.
UNDP management contracts were extended to include national professionals to help
manage PSML financed work at IPEA, which had been inhibited due to the hiring freeze.
UNDP management fee was 3% of the total cost of the contracts. For this Project the
cost of the management contracts was approximately 15% of the US$24 million loan
amount.
J.   Lessons to be Drawn for Future PSM Technical Assistance Projects
60.       Project design should not be overly ambitious, particularly in turbulent
administrative and political environments. The size of the loan, its operational
complexity, and the number of component activities tax the capability of the Borrower as



- 12 -
well as that of the Bank. Straightforward design and dependence on fewer institutions
greatly enhances the probability of success. At the design stage, the Bank should fight
the tendency to include too much. In addition, attention should be given to the
implementing agencies facility to hire consultants and purchase goods given the local
procurement legislation.
61.       Emphasize simplicity and focused activities. In order to ease counterpart
funding and implementation provisions, the design should avoid multiple objectives and
complex institutional arrangements. Flexibility in the reallocation of funds should be
carefully weighed against the dangers of overextending the absorption capacity of the
Government.
62.       Project activities should be clearly designed with terms of reference agreed to
prior to loan signature. In this manner the project can obtain firm budget commitments
and design linkages. This ensures follow-up actions, avoiding conflicts between short-
term exigencies and the long-term needs of strategic institution building. Government
requests to allocate funds to activities not closely related to the objectives of the loan, and
the tendency to use funds to finance routine activities, may have been necessary to
maintain Government institutions afloat during adverse times, but in this case, short term
exigencies overwhelmed component objectives. The Project should resist pressures to use
funds to circumvent fiscal budget cuts.
63.       Prompt and adaptable response from the Bank increases the policy impact of
such proIects, This eitails adaptability of inputs and activities to reach more effectively
the stated objectives of the PSML. Components should be weighed against the level of
difficulty in persuading successive administrations of the importance of continuing the
proposed reforms.
64.       Too much flexibility in the use of funds creates management problems. The
presence of unallocated funds created pressures, sometimes from very high Govemment
sources, to finance low priority activities. It is advisable to limit the use of unallocated
funds to assistance in areas already included in the design, where an appropriate
counterpart agency and terms of reference with clearly specified outputs have been
identified. Flexibility can to lead to slippage and to failure in adequately defining the
scope of reallocated funds.
65.       Extensions of the Closing Date of one year or less do not allow sufficient
time for long term institutional strengthening activities.  Short extension periods
encourage the use of funds for very limited goals rather than for the intended institutional
strengthening. Enormous resources were spent both by the Borrower and the Bank to
extend the closing date and restructure the loan even though it was likely that major
reforms could not be undertaken under the restricted extension timeframe (ie the Federal
Suppliers Registry System and the Budget Evaluation System).
66.       Training activities are effective in the transfer of technical capacity but
cannot compensate for inadequate public sector wage levels. The absence of uniform and
transparent personnel policies, creates uncertainty in the organizational environment,
lowers staff motivation and morale. One of the main problem the public sector in Brazil
faces is an inadequate wage policy. Because of inflation and fiscal difficulties, real
salaries of civil servants have eroded. Managerial pay, in particular, is well below
compensation levels in the private sector and there has been substantial loss of talent due
not only to the low level of salaries but also to the early retirement plans offered during
the Collor administration.



- 13 -
K.  Project Relationships
67.       The Bank's initial dialogue with the Govemment on project design and
implementation was very strong. Both Bank and Government were in constant
coordination throughout the loan's preparation, which culminated in a Project Launch
Seminar held in Brasilia immediately following loan signing. The close cooperation
between the Bank and the key Ministries of the Federal system, SEPLAN and MOF,
required for the implementation of this complex project, enhanced operational links. An
important condition of the loan allowed the Bank to review annually the Government's
Public Sector Investment Program and its related budgetary information. This review
would increase the Bank's overall capacity to monitor and effectively assist Brazil's
development efforts. However, due to chronic inflation this plan's relevance was
significantly diminished and it was not developed from 1989 thru 1991. Lack of
continuity in management and commitment within some implementing agencies remained
a problem.
68.       The establishment of the administrative structures and program logistics of
the auditing training component strained the relationship between all concerned parties:
the implementing agency, IPEA, the State Audit Offices and the Bank. Since the agency
chosen to administer the project, the MEFP's training center, was weak to complete
successfully the program required extensive interventions form the Bank's part as well as
IPEA's.
L.   Consulting Services
69.       Individuals and firms, national and international consultants were employed
under the Project. Consultant performance under the loan was generally good with the
exception of some consultants hired to teach the auditing program. In that case, price
was the primary factor in selecting the consultant, compromising the quality of the
program and a class had to be repeated. Where consultant activities did not lead to clear
results it was often the consequence of changes in organizational relationships and
responsibilities in the Bank and the Government.
70.       Unlike other technical assistance Projects, consultants in this Project did not
experience friction with local counterparts. At IPEA, the largest user of funds during the
last three years of execution, the majority of consultants were hired as research assistants
who worked closely under the supervision of in-house specialists.
71.       Administrative delays in the contracting of consultants was a major problem
in the initial years. The problem was resolved once the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP) management contracts were signed, permitting a more efficient use of
supervision time.
M. Project Documentation and Data
72.       Documentation available in the Bank's Project files is of high quality but
there are several gaps, particularly in those components that were active only in the initial
years of the Project. The Bank's MIS system does not have a record of the time spent by
Bank staff in project preparation and supervision from inception in 1986 to 1989. On the
Borrower's side, submission of complete terms of reference for studies was a recurrent
problem, causing delays in the Bank's approval of work programs. Audit reports were
usually late. Overall the project's audit reports classified compliance with legal
covenants as satisfactory. However, the Bank had requested that the National Treasury



- 14 -
prepare a separate audit on the audit courses component. Instead of a detailed report,
with expenditures broken down by several categories and associated to specific activities,
they prepared an audit report of the project's Part D: the MOF components (absorbed
into Part A, the MEFP components, per the 1991 amendment). It did not provide the
required information and analysis and an assessment by the auditor on lessons or
remedies to the encountered problem. The Bank had requested a specific audit of the
component because the documentation in support of expenditures provided by MOF's
training center was weak.
73.       The Project Completion Report benefitted from the project files, consultant
reports, Bank staff Back-To-Office reports, from information provided by the Project
Management Unit at IPEA and from their report on the external economic and political
circumstances which greatly affected the viability of implementation of activities. The
Borrower's annual progress reports tended to be merely descriptive, lacking assessments.



BRAZIL
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGElMENT LOAN
(LOAN #2721-BR)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Highlights
74.         The Bank Loan # 2721-BR to the Government of Brazil, financed the
implementation of a PSML project, known in Brazil as GESEP. The Loan, in the amount of
US$ 29 million, was signed on July 15, 1986, with the Closing Date defined as December
31, 1990. The Closing Date was subsequently extended a number of times until effective
conclusion on December 31, 1993. During this period, US$ 5 million was cancelled from the
Loan amount, bringing this to US$ 24 million. The implementation of the PSML Project,
started in 1986, coincided with a period of important transformation in the political and
economic lives of the country, which influenced and conditioned the development of Brazil
and involved the need for major adjustments to meet the new reality. In economic terms the
Project encountered serious difficulties resulting from the structural adjustment policies and
macroeconomic instability. A sequence of economic measures decreed modifications in
monetary policy, national currency, contract indexing and other measures. The difficulties
involved in working within a situation of constant change in such policies are considerable,
and the PSML had to adapt to these changes. This was possible through IPEA's good
management and the perception of the importance of the Project as a means of modernizing
the public bodies involved.
75.         From 1986 to 1993, a large number of events and circumstances caused
difficulties for Project implementation, among them the reprogramming of activities,
component changes and budget alterations. A short summary follows on the political and
economic environment of that period. In relation to that period, it should be noted that the
administrative instability in the country, resulting from the form in which the transition from
the military to civilian government took place, together with the actual Constitution approved
in 1988, created difficulties for effective government planning. The successive civilian
governments made constant and significant transformations in the Administration. In 1985,
the Ministry for Deburocratization was created. Shortly after the Department of
Administration at the Presidency was elevated to a Ministry in its own right. Subsequently
the Ministry for Deburocratization was closed. The Ministry of Science and Technology was
then created, only to be closed shortly after and incorporated into the Ministry of Industry
and Commerce. Thus, in a succession of events, organs were created and closed to meet
political conveniences. The Collor government, in its turn, carried out even greater
transformations. The number of ministries was reduced from 16 to 12, but at the same time
the number of organs linked to the Presidency increased from 9 to 12. A summary of main
events, on a year by year basis, follows:



- 16 -
1986 - The "Plano Cruzado" was a group of economic measures that changed
the name of the currency, froze prices and the exchange rate, changed the
rules used for indexing the actual value of the brazilian currency, and decreed
a salary increase for the public sector employees.
This plan caused profound alterations in the public sector at federal level. It
was the first year of the PSML and can be summed up as one of attempts,
errors, instability and difficulties for government planners.
In July the government decreed a compulsory withholding tax on fuel, vehicles
and foreign travel. An aggravating factor was the fact that 1986 was an
election year, with the government PMDB party winning an ample majority in
the November elections. After the elections, public tariffs were increased and
inflation worsened.
1987 - In the middle of a credibility crisis for the government, a new
economic program was launched which resulted in a sharp downturn in
economic activity, with a fall in the rate of investments and in the GNP.
However, inflation continued to rise and registered 410% per annum at the end
of the year. During the period, exports rose with a better balance in foreign
trading.
1988 - Another change of command in the economy happened at the
beginning of the year, followed by long debates and discussions on a new
stabilization package. Opinions were voiced against "heterodoxal shocks" (non-
conventional economic measures), and negotiations of external debit were
reinitiated with foreign banks.
Internally the Government tried to negotiate a "social pact" , considering it the
only means of reducing inflation. However, due to the Government's poor
credibility, all measures taken to this end were without effect.
It was in 1988 that the new Constitution was approved and which altered many
of the basic rules which had governed society and the economy until then, with
important consequences for government planning.
From the economic viewpoint, the new rules established by the Constitution,
restricted even more the Government's room for manoeuvre, reducing its
participation in public sector income from 17% of GNP in 1980 to 13% in
1989.
The state monopolies were maintained and foreign capital suffered new
restrictions.



- 17 -
The new obligations established in terms of public health services and state
pensions were somewhat above the capacity of the country to pay for them,
causing pressures on the National Budget.
Still on the subject of the new Constitution, the lack of clarity with regard to
the responsibilities of the Federal Government, especially in the area of social
welfare, gave leeway for the creation and re-creation of public bodies.
1989 - In that year, the rules were affected by the so called "Plano Verao",
which involved a price freeze, monetary reform and an increase in real interest
rates.
Once again economic policy didn't respond to public expectations. The plan
didn't manage to reduce inflation, even though it was designed with significant
measures to that effect.
These, however, ended up being substituted by paliatives based on,
principally, in high interest rates, to avoid an explosion in the inflationary
process. The stabilization program as implemented had disastrous results and
the economy's problems only got worse.
1990 - After an intense electoral campaign, a new president was inaugurated
in March, 1990. The situation was tragic due to the ever worsening
inflationary process, reaching levels up to 82.5% per month.
The so-called "Collor Plan", based on severe fiscal and administrative
measures, was launched. The money supply was drastically reduced by a series
of measures, such as the freezing of monetary assets (including savings
accounts) for eighteen months. Price controls were reintroduced together with
a floating exchange rate and more liberal trading policies.
The currency was changed from Cruzado to Cruzeiro. Inflation fell abruptly
only to rise again shortly after.
An ample administrative reform was also carried out, with the closing and
fusion of ministries and the dismissal of more than 100,000 public sector
workers.    The Planning Secretariat was closed and its functions taken over
by the giant Ministry of the Economy, Finance and Planning.
The planning and research functions were practically ignored by the
Government, in its desire to reform and administrate the economy by means of
short term measures. The Government however was not successful in its
endeavours.



- 18 -
The implementation of the PSML in this context, especially during the first
eighteen months of the Collor administration, was severely affected.-
Project management became centralized in the Administrative Directorate of
IPEA, without, however, any clear program guidance, due to the uncertainties
with regard to the planning process to be adopted. Assuming overall Project
coordination, IPEA was able, however, to give the Project new impulse,
working together with the component coordinators to accelerate the
administrative and financial processes.
1991  - In the middle of the new inflationary process another team took over
the economy, with orthodox economic proposals for financial and economic
policies, control of aggregated demand, high interest rates, wage controls and
freeing of public sector tariffs and prices.
Other measures included a floating currency and the slow but constant
devaluation of the Cruzeiro. This policy lasted until September of 1992, with
ever increasing inflation and political scandals which shook the country.
1992 - Political events linked to the impeachment of the President resulted in
another changes in the Government. The Vice-President was called to assume
the Government, bringing with him a new ministerial team. New
administrative reforms took place during the first year of the new government
with four changes of minister at Finance and three at the Planning Ministry.
76.         The Organizational structure of PSML, during the first phase of the Project,
congregated various components under the overall coordination of the Ministries of Finance
and of Planning. This divided administration was to have been regulated by a presidential
decree, but due to the inconsistencies of the then political-institutional structure of the
country, this matter kept being put back. Thus between 1986 and 1989, due to the
significant individual component autonomy and freedom of control over their programs, the
more successful were the IPEA and IBGE components because of their previous experience
in dealing with foreign loans. The analyses made of the organizational structure of PSML
during this period showed that an urgent simplification of the structure was necessary. As a
result of these analyses, IPEA was made responsible for overall Project management. The
PSML went through numerous periods of uncertainty, the effects of which were diminished
due to the stability represented by IPEA, which catalyzed the other components around the
objectives of PSML. Thus it must be recognized that institutional and administrative stability
is a fundamental pre-requisite for the efficient use of external loans and for the timely
attainment of their goals. The support of the World Bank to IPEA must be recognized. This
support made it possible for IPEA to carry out the PSML Project coordination and maximize
the use of funds in an efficient and timely manner.



- 19 -
B. Conclusions
77.         The main conclusion is that the overall economic, political and administrative
context influenced in a very strong manner the implementation of PSML, resulting in
modifications in its initial design. However, it can be said that the principal objectives were
reached, through the increase in efficiency in the implementation of public policies and the
forming of the basis for a new planning process in the country.
78.         A fundamental question, which in fact is one of the main preoccupations of the
officials responsible for choosing and making effective external finance, is the institutional
organization for project implementation. This should be simple and under the complete
control of one body, with a project manager and specific technical support dedicated to the
carrying out of the project. This structure would be more economic in the end, by making
possible more timely project implementation and greater dedication to the attainment of the
project objectives.
79.         At the same time, something should be done at federal level with regard to the
hiring of specialized consultant services. The inflexibility of present brazilian legislation
obliges project managers to seek international bodies for technical cooperation to be able to
hire consultants for planning and research work. Even with all its advantages in terms of the
access to best national consultants (also foreign ones) it affords, its use throughout the public
administration is in effect a distortion.
C.   Comments on Part I and II of this Project Completion Report
80.         Part I of this PCR was prepared by IBRD and in general terms presents a
precise and comprehensive review of the project. Part II will comment on relevant aspects
of the Project from the point of view of the Borrower.
D. Generalities, Objectives and Description
81.         The Project was designed, in general terms, to strengthen the institutional
capacity of various sectors of the Brazilian Federal Government. The loan was signed in
July 1986, and became effective in December of that year. The original loan amount was
US$ 29 million, to be disbursed up to the end of 1990. Subsequently, the Bank agreed to
various extensions to the loan period, finishing finally in 1993, three years after the original
date. The loan amount was altered also, reduced by 17% from the original US$ 29 million to
US$ 24 million, which was completely disbursed by end 1993.
82.         Details regarding the aspects covered in 'DW are adequately explained in
paragraphs (1-1) to (I-14) of Part I of this report.



- 20 -
E.   Project Design and Organization
83.         During Project preparation, the difficulties involved in the coordination of
activities among so many components, spread throughout diverse public bodies, were
severely underestimated. The number of activities and components as selected were
excessive, and the Brazilian public sector would have encountered considerable difficulty in
implementing the project, even in a more stable economic and administrative environment.
F.    Loan Amendments
84.         Three amendments to the loan agreement were signed in August 1988,
February 1990 and March 1991. These amendments involved different alterations and
resulted from the following events:
(a)   organizational changes required as a result of the transfer of functions among
ministries and components;
(b)   changes resulting from the dispositions of the new Constitution of 1988.
(c)   changes resulting from the reduction and restructuring of the public sector, as
determined by the Collor administration (March 1990);
(d)   alterations caused by the addition of new components to the Project,  the
reprogramming of activities and the reallocation of funds among beneficiaries;
(e)   changes deriving from the reprogramming and reorganization of the
Project, including the reduction in the number of components, cancelling of
US$ 5 million of the loan, the fusion of the Planning and Finance ministries,
and the centralization in IPEA of the Project management.
85.         Details of the events mentioned in "D" and "E" are adequately described in
paragraphs (I-15) to (I-27) of Part I of this report.
G.   Project Implementation
86.         Numerous types of problem occurred during project implementation. A
majority of the difficulties derived from factors related to the following circumstances:
1)    Political and economic instability.  (i)
2)    Frequent institutional changes, with subsequent administrative
discontinuity.   (ii)



- 21 -
3)    As a result of the previous items, the people responsible for project
implementation were constantly changed, be that at ministerial,
parastatal or managerial levels. (iu)
4)    Uncertainty as to what adjustments and policies would be required, to
meet the directives of the new administrations.
5)    Restrictive legislation with regard to the contracting of consultants by
the public sector. (iv)
6)    Gradual, but significant reduction, in real terms, of public sector
salaries, causing the loss of numerous staff, especially the more
qualified and       experienced.   (v)
87.          See Attachment # 1 for more detailed comments on the circumstances
mentioned above.
88.          A satisfactory description of the various events, difficulties and successes
which occurred during Project implementation, is to be found in paragraphs (1-28) to (I-39)
of Part I of this report.
H.   Project Results
89.          The Project proposed to support three main areas of the brazilian public
sector, that are:
(a) Public Sector Studies;
(b) Institutional Development Strengthening and Organization; and
(c) Management of the Planning and Budgeting Processes.
90.          Project results were of variable quality. In general terms the results were
better from the short term activities and from those with more precise targets and whose
effects could be more easily evaluated. The less favourable results correspond to activities
which depended on long term commitments for their implementation.
91.          Deficiencies in the results occurred because of constant changes in the degree
of interest, the emphasis and priority given by successive administrations, as well as to the
factors mentioned in paragraph (86) of this document.
92.          An adequate description of the results and the problems encountered during
Project implementation, is to be found in paragraphs (I-40) to (I-46) of this PCR, Part I.



- 22 -
93.         The Borrower, however, does not concur with the statement made in (I-44) to
the effect that Quality and Productivity Program at IPEA is no longer government priority.
This program actually continues at IPEA and has given good results; and in fact IPEA is
publishing a biannual review for information and dissemination of the results.
I.    Sustainability
94.         The Project was implemented in the midst of a climate of constant institutional
change, frequent expectation of changes in the political and economic rules and many
changes of administrations, with the consequent replacement of high level public sector
officials. (see paragraphs 20 to 22 of this document). It is therefore not surprising that
various programs have been disfavorably affected and that in some cases it is difficult to
estimate if they have real chances of continuing.
95.         However, some components matured to the point that it is possible to expect
the continuance of actions resulting from Project activities. Such is the case of the IBGE and
of the staff training program for the Federal Expenditure Control Network. The Federal
Assets Administration is another example of concrete results where continuity of the activity
is expected.
96.         The continuity of many other activities, however, is still uncertain because of
the difficulty of the public sector to retain qualified officials.
97.         For more details, see paragraphs (1-47) to (1-51) of Part I of this report.
J.    Performance of the World Bank
98.         Paragraphs (I-52) to (1-54) of Part I adequately cover the different aspects of
Bank performance.
99.         From the viewpoint of the Borrower, the following comments are made
conceming problems originating from the Bank which have delayed and otherwise affected
Project implementation:
(a)   The Bank normally took a great length of time to review and approve the
terms of reference submitted by the Borrower. The Bank could have delegated
this responsibility to the PSML Project management, at least for up to a
certain amount.
(b)   There was excessive delay also in the disbursement of funds to UNDP which,
in turn, affected, for a certain time, the hiring of consultants.



- 23 -
K.   Performance of the Borrower
100.        Paragraphs (1-55) to (1-56) give adequate information regarding the
performance of government bodies during Project implementation.
101.        Special emphasis, however, should be given to the fact that, effectively,
Project implementation improved considerably after PSML management was concentrated at
IPEA.
102.        On the other hand, the statement (see paragraph I-56) that ". .[experienced
technicians] either were dismissed or took advantage of generous early retirement packages
offered", should be corrected. Public entities continue to encounter difficulty in retaining
their highly qualified staff. However, "early retirement package" is not one of the causes of
staff loss; as a matter of fact, such specific "packages" never existed. What happened was
that the new Constitution, by determining the implementation of a different system of
employment ("Regime Juridico Unico") for Government employees, caused public sector
personnel (notably those from foundations like IPEA) to change from the CLT system (used
by private companies) to the "public servant" system. As the latter has different
requirements for retirement, many employees, as a result of the change, found they had
accumulated enough time to be able to retire, and did so. See Attachment # 1, note (v) of
paragraph 83.
103.        Still on the subject of the Borrower's performance, it should be noted that this
was the first loan of its type to Brazil, and in retrospective, an adjustment period, before
Project implementation, would have been beneficial.
104.        Also, it is important to recall how much the Project was severely impaired by
the occurrence of changes in government, political crises, changes in economic policies,
institutional changes, successive alterations in key personnel and finally certain dispositions
of the new Constitution. (see paragraph 20 of this document, and Appendix 1). It was only
during the administration which followed Collor, that the frequency of the changes mentioned
was reduced.
L.    Hiring of Consultants
105.        Paragraphs (1-58) and (1-59) of this PCR inform adequately with respect to this
subject. Should be emphasized that the efficiency of the system established between IPEA
and UNDP was fundamental in accelerating the contracting process.
M.   Disbursements
106.        Disbursements were affected by two main causes:
(a)   delays in Project implementation, due to the reasons already mentioned in this
report.



- 24 -
(b)   delays resulting from temporary lack of counterpart funds.
In (b) for example: in 1989, because of an oversight, counterpart funds were
not included in the original Federal Budget; in 1990 the Congress delayed the
approval of the Federal Budget; and in 1991 the Budget was frozen as one of
the measures to control inflation.
107.        The inflationary process also influenced the implementation of the Project. The
amount in Cruzeiros allocated at the beginning of each year was not properly corrected to
compensate for devaluation against the dollar during the year.
108.        Disbursements of loan funds were as indicated in the following table:
PROJECT DISBURSEMENTS  (*)              US$ MILLIONS  (**)
Annual        Accumulated
Year               amount        amount
to Dec 31  to Dec 31           Accumulated
------------------------------------------------------
1986/87           2,8                 2,8                11%
1988              0,8                 3,6                15%
1989              2.3                 5,9                25%
1990              4,4               10,4                 43%
1991              5,7               16,0                 67%
1992              5,5               21,5                 90%
1993              2,7               24,0                 100%
(*)   Disbursement requests sent to the Bank, up to end of period indicated.
(**)   Rounded to nearest $100,000
109.        It can be noted, from the above, that for the first three years, before Project
management was centered at IPEA, only 25% of the loan amount was disbursed. After
IPEA took over on the management function, the outstanding 75% was disbursed in an equal
amount of time.
110.        Paragraphs (1-57) and (I-58) inform correctly and in more detail about this
subject.
N.   Lessons to be learned
11.         In general terms, all projects should have the simplest and most direct
management and coordination structure. This is specially true, in the case of projects which
target institution building, due to their own inbuilt complexity.



- 25 -
112.        Institution building projects should emphasize simplicity and well defined
activities, avoiding excessive numbers of components and the dispersion of activities.
113.        As projects of this type often overrun their expected implementation periods,
their design should take into consideration the possibility of the project being carried over
into new administrations.
114.        Project activities should be clearly defined during loan negotiations and the
terms of reference should be drafted before loan signature.
115.        Management and coordination should be carried out by one body which should
have a project unit specifically for this function.
116.        The reallocation of Project funds during implementation should be restricted,
possibly with minimum periods before the Bank would consider renegotiation. This would
protect the Project from frequent modification and the resulting disruption and delays in
implementation.
117.        Project design should continue to finance information equipment and software
and also include funds for technical assistance for training in their use.
0.  Working Relationship among Bank Officials, Local Staff and Consultants
118.        During the preparation of Part II of the PCR, a number of government
officials involved in this PSML loan were interviewed, including former public institution
heads, Project managers , coordinators and their replacements. They are unanimous in
stating that the relationship with Bank officials was very good, and that even during the more
confusing of the changes in the many levels of the Administration, the Bank had shown great
understanding of their problems, always working to find suitable alternatives for the best
possible implementation of the Project.
119.        With very few exceptions, the local and expatriate consultants hired by the
Project, performed adequately and without friction between them and counterpart staff.
P.    Components Performance
120.        Annex 2 to Part I presents a satisfactory report on this subject.
Q.   Statistical Data
121.        The statistical data presented in Part III, is largely in agreement with the
information available in the PSML files at IPEA. The only discrepancy relates to the
practice, as corroborate at IPEA files, of showing the disbursement date as the day on which
the request was sent to the Bank. This obviously disagrees with the Bank's data which
shows the date of effective disbursement of the funds by the Bank.



- 26 -
Attachment
(See paragraph 20 of this Part I of the PCR)
(i)   Between 1986 and 1991, six economic plans were implemented which strongly
influenced the parameters of national economic policy, with considerable effects on the
country. (Cruzado I, Cruzado II, Plano Bresser, "Feijao com Arroz', Collor I and Collor II).
(ii)   Examples: Transfer of SEST to the Ministry of Finance; fusion of the
Ministries of Planning and Finance to form the Ministry of the Economy; dismembering of
the Ministry of the Economy returning to the previous situation with separate ministries.
(iii) For example, from 1986 to 1993, Brazil had three Presidents of the Republic.
Between Ministers of Planning and. Finance, (principal ministries involved with the Project)
Brazil had a total of 16 (including two at the Ministry of the Economy), without mentioning
temporary replacements. The PSML, during its implementation, had a total of twelve
managers, and the different components had so many coordinators that it was impossible to
determine the exact total.
(iv)   Dispositions contained in the new Constitution caused restrictions with regard
to the contracting of consultants by the public sector. The legislation now requires publicly
advertised competitive procurement in all cases and the procedures are overly complex and
time consuming. This type of requirement goes against the need for urgency in the carrying
out short term services suitable for individual consultants.
This problem was in large part overcomed, during the latter part of Project
implementation, through contracts via UNDP.
(v)   In this regard the establishment of the "Regime Juridico Unico" was very
important with respect to the form of contract between the public sector and its employees.
Employees of the so-called 'indirect administration" (foundations like IPEA for
example) were, up to then, hired in accordance with private sector practice, through the
CLT' system.
This alteration, affected the work contracts of all employees of state agencies under
the 'CLT' system, who now found themselves under the public service form of contract, i.e
they were now 'public servants".
This, indirectly, favored the taking of early retirement by many of these "public



- 27 -
servants" due to the reduced time requirement,
These circumstances resulted in the retirement of a large number of employees, with
special impact on those aged 50 and over, most qualified and experienced. Many of these
then were hired by private firms or became individual consultants.
Others returned to public service, when due to their experience they were hired as
special advisors to the Government (DAS), thus adding these incomes to their retirement
pensions.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT LOAN (PSNMIL)
(LOAN 2721-BR)
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Project Timetable
ACTIVITY                                           Original Loan Dates            Actual
Reconnaissance Mission                                                            06/11/84
Preparation Mission                                                               11/05/84
Preappraisal Mission                               12/03/84                       05/01/85
GOB Requests Loan Proceed'                                                        06/85
Bank Resumes Loan Processing                                                      07/85
Initial Project Brief                                                             08/14/85
Decision Memorandum                                                               12/18/85
Appraisal/SEPLAN Components                        03/18/85                       10/7-25/85
Appraisal/Min.Finance Components                                                  02/16/86
Post-Appraisal                                                                    02/23/86
Yellow Draft                                       05/85                          04/03/86
Green Cover                                        08/85                          05/16/86
President's Report                                 10/85                          05/29/86
Negotiations                                                                      05/5-13/86
Board Approval                                                                    06/19/86
Signing Date                                                                      07/15/86
Loan Agreement                                                                    07/15/86
Project Launch Seminar2                                                           08/12-13/86
Effectiveness                                                                     12/16/86
First Amendment to Loan                                                           08/22/88
Second Amendment to Loan                                                          02108/90
Third Amendment to Loan                                                           03/15/91 (Cancellation of
US$5.0 million)
Loan Closing                                       12/31/90                       12/31/91 (First extension)
12/31/92 (Second extension)
06/30/93 (Third extension)
12/31/93 (Fourth extension)
PCR Draft                                          03/15/93                       04/30/94
Actual Completion                                                                 06/30/94
' During the November 1984 mission, the Bank and the Government of Brazil agreed that decisions on whether to proceed with loan
prepartion should be left to the new administntion. Subsequent delays in the transition between Governmrunts due to the illness and
subsequent death of Dr. Tancredo Neves, who was elected Prrsident in January but unable to take office, further delayed consideration of
loan proposals by new Ministers and officials. In June, 1985, the Minister of Planning agreed, in principle, to proceed, and specific
planning for the loan began in July.
' A Proiect Launch Seminar was held in Bmsilia at the Finance Ministry's Training Center (ESAF) from August 12-13. The seminar,
held moon after loan signing, acted as a catalyst in inducing project managers to tackle complex organizational and procedural problems of
implemenuation. Throughout the seminJar World Bank staff, consultants and UNDP staff clarified the policies and procedures of their
institutions and provided guidance on procurement, the hiring of consultanta, the criteria for guidance on procurement, criteria for
evaluating training, etc.



- 29 -
Table 2: Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ millions)
Bank FY
1987     1988      1989    1990       1991    1992      1993      1994
President's Report Estimate'                6.00      17.00    24.00   29.00    24.00       24.00    24.00    24.00
Actual                                       3.47     4.49      5.44    8.12      13.01     17.71    22.75    23.99
Actual as % of Estimate                     58        26       23       28        54        74        95      100
Date of Final Disbursement: March 31, 1994.
1/ US$5.0 million was cancelled in 1991 reducing the loan amount to US$24.0 million from the original US$29 nillion.



- 30 -
Table 3: Project Financing
($000)
Category                                 Original      Amend.    Amend.          Amend.        Actual4
Estimate         11          ][12          i3
I) PARTS A. B. C
Consultant Services                      13,442        13,492      4,736       10,567           14,650
Goods                                     5,456        4,256       4,256        4,116           2,955
Training/Observation Visits               1,332        1,330       1,706        5,165           5,557
Project Administration                     300           300        200          N/A5             N/A
(includes UNDP fee)
Unallocated                               3,750        3,750        200         2,470             N/A
Construction of IBGE regional              N/A         1,200        700          N/A              N/A
offices/repairs Part C (iii)
II) PART D                                                                     Deleted         Deleted
Consultant Services                       2,800        2,800       6,500
Training                                   700           700       5,570
Unallocated                                620           620         30
III) Refundin2 of PPAM                     600           552        552         552              551
IV) PART E
Consultant Services                                                 550         330              156
V) UNALLOCATED                                                     4,000        700              N/A
VI) Proiect Administration                                                      100              121
VIT Amount Cancelled                                                           5,000           5,000
TOTAL                                    29,000       29,000       29,000      29,000          28,990
First Amendment to Loan Agreement (August 22, 1988).
2 Second Amendment to Loan Agreement (February 8, 1990).
'Third Amendment to Loan Agreement (March 15, 1991).
'As of May 2, 1994 Category Recap Report prepared by the Loans Department.
5N/A = Not Applicable
'Refunding of Project Preparation Advance (PPA); amount due pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of original Loan Agreement (July 15,
1986).



- 31 -
Table 3B: Proiect Cost Breakdown by Component
Components                                             Allocation        Disbursenents
in President's      (04/30194)
Report
FORESEEN IN ORIGINAL DESIGN
Part A:
Strengthening the Planning and Budgeting Systems of
SEPLAN
A. 1 SOF-Budget Office                                      897
A.2 IPLAN-National Planning Inst.                         1,750
A.3 INPES-National Research Inst.                         1.500
Subtotal                                               4.147
2. Public Enterprises Evaluation (SESf)
2.1 Rehabilitation Programs                               6,170
2.2 Training in Performance Evaluation                      250
Subtotal                                               6,420
3. Support of Administrative Reform
(SEPLAN-Sec.Gen. Office)                                  1.116
4. Training (CENDEC)                                          957
5. Strengthening the Statistical System
5.1 IBGE (Geographic & Statistical Inst.)                 7,561
5.2 Getulio Vargas Foundation                               629
Subtotal                                               8.190
Base Cost-SEPLAN Component                               20.830
6. Ministry of Finance
6.1 Integrated Information and Control
System (STN)                                           1,500
6.2 Training of Special Auditing Unit (STN)                 200
6.3 Comptroller General Auditors Tmg.                     1,300
6.4 Govt. Assets Administration (SPU)                       500
Base Cost-STN Component                                   3.500
Project Management (including cost of UNPD
contract)                                                 300
Total Base Cost                                       24.63
Physical Contingencies                                    2,217
Price Contingencies                                       2.153
Total Project Cost and Financing                        29.000
NOT FORESEEN IN ORIGINAL DESIGN
ADDED AFTER THE THREE AMENDMENTS



Table 4: Status ot Leaal Covenanis              Page 1 ol 2
Ln.     Legal       Type                 Description              Original        Revised    Status   Overall              Comments
No.     Agreement   Covenant             ol Covenanl                Date           Date              Project
Rating
2721-BR  LA 2.02(a)     M      Loan withdrawal procedures.      Dec. 16. 1986                  OK        2
LA 2.02(b)    M      Maintan a Special Account.       Dec. 16. 1986                  OK
at the Central Bank.
LA 3.01(a)     T     Strengthen the public sector     Dec. 16 1986
planning and management
capabilities at the Federal
Government level. Part:
(A) Integrated program to                                       OK
strengthen the management
capabilities of the Ministry ot
Economy. Finance and Planning;
the Ministry of Forelgn Atfairs
and the Secretariat for Foreign
Admin.
(B) Improvement of management.                                  OK
accountability and perlormance of
productive public enterprlses;
(C) Improvement of national and                                 OK
regional Information systems;
(E) Strengthening of Trade and                                  OK
Technical Cooperation Services of
the Ministry of Foreign Atfairs.
LA 3.01(b)    M      Maintain a project coordinator at  Dec. 16 1986                 OK
Ministry of Economy, Flnance and
Planning and component coord-
Inators In each Participating
LAICO/27-Mav-94



Table 4: Slalus of Legal Covenants               Page 2 ol 2
Ln.     Legal        Type                  Descriplion              Original        Revised     Status   Overall              Comments
No.     Agreernenl   Covenance            of Covenant                 Dale           Date               Project
Rating
2721 -BR   LA 3.02(i)    M      Exchange views with the Bank on      Every                        OK              Bank requested UNDP management
(Conl d)                       the amount allocated In Its tederal  Oct. 301h                                     contracts to ensure the continuous
budget bill for purposes o1 execution                                            (low ot tunds.
of the project and the amounts
actually spent In project activities
during the past calendar year.
LA 3.05(a)     T     Carry out all studies included in  Dec. 16, 1986                   OK
the Project.
LA 3.07       T     Prepare, on a yearly basis, In 1987,    Dec. 16. 1986              OK
1988,1989. a report on Its multi-
annual lederal sector Investment
program for the following three
years, Including Public Enterprise
Investment and the execution of
the Investment program of the public
sector during the previous llscal
year.
LA4.01(b&c)     F     Furnish Bank with audited Financial   Every                        OK             Audit report received live months
statements, Including the          April 30th                                    late.
Special Account and the SOEs, lor
each year.
LA1CO/27-M3y-94



- 34 -
Table 5A: Use of Bank Resources
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual Staff Weeks
Preparation                                30.4
Appraisal                                  43.2
Negotiations                               9.0
Supervision                               212.0
TOTAL                                     294.6
Completion (PCR)                           13.6
PROJECT TOTAL                             308.2



- 35 -
Table 5B: Mission
Stage of Project Cycle                   Fiscal Yeare     No. of Persons  Days       Total
Days
Preparation/Reconnaissance'              1984             02               05        10
Preappraisal                             1985
Appraisal/SEPLAN Components              1984             06               21        126
Appraisal/Min.Fin. Components            1986
Post-Appraisal                           1986             02                11       22
Project Launch Seminar                   1987             03               09        27
Supervision                              1989             03               10        30
Supervision                              1989             01               14        14
Supervision                              1989             02               05        10
Supervision                              1989             01               23        23
Supervision                              1989             02               17        34
Supervision                              1990             01               07        07
Supervision                              1990             01               11        11
Supervision                              1990             01               09        09
Supervision                              1990             01               08        08
Supervision                              1991             01               10        10
Supervision                              1991             01               04        04
Supervision                              1991             01               12        12
Supervision                              1991             01               03        03
Supervision                              1991             01               21        21
Supervision                              1992             01               07        07
Supervision                              1992             01               18        18
Supervision                              1992             02               06        12
Supervision                              1993             02               12        24
PCR                                      1994             02               12        24
TOTAL                                                     39               255       466
7 From 1986 to 19S9 time aUocated for misions was nt recorded in the Bank's Mansauneit Infornition Sy_es (MI. Mission
infornmtion concerning these years was compiled bsed on the Back-to-Office repots aVilable in th project files.
' The President's Report indicates the project took six nonths to prepae.



- 36 -
Table 6: Related Operations
Project/Loan No.and                          Fiscal Year of
Title              Purpose              Approval               Status
Electric Power Sector  The loan aimed at          1986          Completed
Loan (US$500         deepening, at the                          (PPAR #9267)
million)/2720-BR     sectoral level, the
overall strategy of
structural adjustment
of the Public Sector.
The Credit and       The loan supported           1986          Completed
Marketing Reform     the structural                             (PCR #10456)
Loan (US$500         adjustment program
million)/2727-BR     by introducing major
steps towards
deregulation of the
economy, and towards
a fully market-oriented
agricultural policy.



Annex 1. ASSESSMENT BY COMPONENT
1.        The project had disbursed U$24 million by April 30, 1994. This section
assesses the achievements of the components described in the original Loan Agreement
and in the subsequent reorganizations of the Project through three successive Loan
Agreement Amendments.
Components under Part A: Strengthening of the Ministry of Economy. Finance and
Planning (US$9.520,034.77)
Part A (i), (ii), (Wii), (iv)'
A(i): Improving budget planning
2.        This component, implemented by the National Planning Institute (IPLAN),
was delayed by four successive replacements of the component's manager, shifts in
planned objectives, and the effects of far-reaching reorganizations. Perhaps even more
serious than the leadership changes was the fact that, following the failure of the Cruzado
plan, preoccupation with short term problems tended to take precedence over medium and
long term programming and policy formulation, which should have been IPLAN's main
areas of concern.
3.        The program originally consisted of studies to support the: (i) development of
a budget system at SEPLAN; (ii) development of methodologies for the evaluation of
IPLAN projects; and (iii) improvement of budget planning at the Budget and Finance
Secretariat. These studies fell into two groups: (i) methodological studies and (ii)
research projects linked directly to the study of long-term economic and social policies
and programs. They focused on the 1988 Constitution's impact on public administration
in terms of its role, labor legislation changes and on overall administrative structures.
Key issues included decentralization, deregulation, fiscal policy, reduction of subsidies,
pricing, trade policies, roles for the private sector, delivery of social services, and, to a
lesser extent, the environment.
4.        This component performed better once the loan was restructured in 1990,
when SEPLAN was merged into the MEFP, project administration was unified at IPEA
and a Project Management Team was established under the Secretary for Economic
Policy, an agency within the MEFP, ensuring a more policy-oriented project. The Unit
ensured greater policy orientation because of its link to high-level Government officials at
the MEFP.
A(ii): Federal Budget and Finance Secretariat
5.        The Project originally had been designed to assist the Federal Budget and
Finance Secretariat, the agency responsible for preparing the Federal budget, to: (i)
analyze and streamline central budgetary practices; (ii) strengthen procedures to review
requests from decentralized entities; (iii) develop and implement a training program in
budget preparation and review. The resources originally assigned to the Secretariat to
improve budget preparation and the methods used to monitor budget implementation were
virtually left unused. None of the Budget Office directors showed any sustained interest
in using loan resources. If the Secretariat needed to carry out technical studies, it
preferred to use its own staff and financial resources. By 1988 only one component had
been undertaken; a study of inferior quality on the ties between the Federal budget and
1. Originally Part A (i) IPEA/IPLAN and Part A(ii) IPEA/INOR under SEPLAN.



- 38 -
the guidelines of new Constitution. There was a reluctance to use PSML funds to finance
studies connected with the need for Federal budget redefinition because the corrective
actions needed to restructure the budget required the Government's willingness to commit
difficult political decisions.
6.        In the absence of real interest in outside assistance and in internalizing such
assistance, there was little SEPLAN management could do to ensure the adequate use of
loan funds originally assigned to this component. In the area of information systems
upgrade, the Secretariat showed a good deal of interest in securing assistance and advice
from the SEPLAN component's management team and from specialized World Bank
staff. Nevertheless with financial assistance from IBM, the Secretariat has implemented
these improvements without the need to use the project's funds. Funds were reallocated
in 1991.
Part A(iii): Training
SEPLAN's Training Center (CENDEC) (US$ 1.552,323.40)
7.        CENDEC's institutional capacity was strengthened over the medium term by
financing improvements in library facilities, audio-visual and information systems
equipment, development of training materials, studies in training and staff development.
It also developed technologies appropriate to Brazil (the correspondence course, a
proposal which makes great sense for Brazil given its size and the cost of travel) and
instructional materials to enable higher level technicians to elaborate and analyze projects.
8.        CENDEC's training program has a reputation for quality among public
service employees. Courses, workshops and seminars were held mainly for civil service
technicians at the Federal level2. In developing its courses, CENDEC holds annual
meetings with IPEA and SEPLAN to discuss their training needs. The training program
has some permanent core classes, of which the most well-known is Project Design and
Evaluation. Once the annual program has been decided, specialists are hired at market
rates. CENDEC has a very small administrative structure which keeps costs low.
9.        CENDEC has no formal mechanism in place for the evaluation of course
effectiveness and agency impact. Beneficiary Government agencies and the course
participants themselves are asked for feedback. However, since the Government does not
have a concrete human resource policy, fiscal considerations are often the sole criteria
used to decide whether to continue with the training program from year to year. In
addition, CENDEC does ntot keep track of the retention level of those trained once they
return to their work places. Thus it is difficult to evaluate the long term impact of the
training courses.
Central Bank: Training (USS$106.200)
10.       Managerial and technical training was administered to 350 employees from
November 1992 to April 1993. This training was tied to an overall "Program for the
Improvement of Client Service Quality and Overall Productivity Levels". The program
has resulted in the following benefits: reassessment and redesign of the bank's overall
2. The number of civil servants trained was: 1988 - 2,205; 1989 - 1,223;
1990 - 766; 1991 - 846; 1992 - 3,182; 1993 - 1,717.



- 39 -
strategy, development of a training program through a system of "multipliers" (educating
managers on how to train their staff), reassessment of staff positions and salary ranges,
development of a system of performance-based bonuses, updating of the bank's
accounting procedures and procedures for restructuring of foreign debt service payments,
establishment of computerized systems for client account information and retrieval and
the overall decentralization of administrative procedures to increase efficiency and
decrease bureaucracy. Ninety-eight percent of staff trained remain at the Central Bank.
Training will continue with the Central Bank's own funds (4300 employees trained to
date).
Attomey General's Office: Training (US$533.079.86)
11.       The program trained staff on client service techniques and on the use of a
new computerized system designed to expedite the processing of claims. The Attomey's
Office serves the Govemment by providing legal counsel to the Ministry of Finance,
defending the state against claims and by processing income tax charges. The program
consisted of two courses: training of 100 intermediate level managerial staff on the new
computerized system and client service training for 90 Attorney-Generals. To give
continuity to the training, trained staff are designated to teach their colleagues. The need
for outside consultants has thus been eliminated. The computerized system for processing
of claims is in full use and staff are now self-sufficient in its operation. The tax
collection database of the largest states (Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro) was updated,
although given Brazil's size, the database is far from complete. Data input is slow,
because of data processor staff shortages, and the data itself are not 100% accurate. The
staff at the Attorney's Office is borrowed from other governmental agencies; it has no
permanent staff and therefore investments in staff training and motivation are not retained
in the long run. The political will to establish a permanent staff has not been
forthcoming. The program was executed from September to December of 1992 and is
being maintained with its own funds.
Part A Civ): Policy Options Research and Economic Policy Planning
12.       The project strengthened IPEA's capacity to carry out policy analysis. It
enabled IPEA to make decisions in a coordinated fashion among agencies and to improve
consistency between political decisions and macroeconomic policy. Consultants were
hired to study policy options and to draft legislation. Without the loan, IPEA would have
been a moribund institution. Due to severe budget constraints, fifty percent of IPEA's
professional staff are loaned out on a full time basis to other Federal institutions, attracted
by the higher level of bonuses they can offer. IPEA's staff has been on strike since the
beginning of March 1994. They are fighting for a package of bonus increases.
13.       This part of the Project achieved its overall objectives. IPEA now prepares:
(a)  a system of indicators used in short-term forecasting of key economic
variables, especially those affecting the principal public sector accounts;
(b)  macro-economic analysis and modelling to improve the capacity for long-term
assessment of the likely public sector deficit and external debt profile and for
the analysis of alternative public policies; and



- 40 -
(c)  deeper and more disaggregated research into allocative and distributional
issues, especially in the fields of energy and social security.
(d)  partial and general equilibrium models used by decision-makers.
14.       At first, the research components had difficulty in presenting proposals but
once their management was unified under IPEA, in 1991, the problems decreased. To
ensure the quality and effectiveness of the studies undertaken, an advisory committee was
established in 1990. The committee had as permanent members IPEA senior personnel,
representatives from SEPLAN and a Bank representative, and as non-permanent members
representatives from academia and from other government entities. The advisory
committee ensured quality, policy orientation, coordination and dissemination of research
findings.
15.       The studies generated proved useful in the MERCOSUL negotiations, in
evaluating poverty alleviation programs particularly in the Northeast and in providing a
clearer picture of conditions of the poorer segments of society.
16.       Initially research components faced problems due to the restrictive
requirements imposed by IPEA's internal legislation which administered the hiring of
consultants. It required that the prospective consultant should measure up to unrealistic
standards. The problem was surpassed once IPEA signed management contracts with
UNDP.
Public Policies Studies Program
17.       The program focused on formulation, analysis and evaluation of public
policies, a relatively new area of study in Brazil, particularly in the social sectors where
results are harder to quantify. The project proposed to stimulate and strengthen study
and research centers already producing work in the area, as well as to provide funds to
enable the studies to be disseminated.
18.       In this component there was difficulty in presenting proposals, and in the fall
of 1989 it came to a virtual standstill because of the difficulty in securing the approval of
IPEA's legal staff for the process of selection of the research institutes and individual
consultants. The program's management and UNDP prepared a cost sharing agreement,
under which the program's policy studies would be contracted under UNDP's flexible
procedures. After the third amendment, this component was absorbed by IPEA and it
was able to finally disburse.
Part A (v!: Administrative Reform (US$507.786. 14)
19.       This was a problematic component designed by the Federal Administrative
Secretariat (SAF). Funds were to be devoted to an information system for personnel
management and a review of the administrative organization and management process.
The activity proposed was the reformulation of the job grading and classification system.
It was needed in order to link the system to the efforts to reduce Federal employment
levels. The Bank viewed the development of the Federal employment registry as an
efficient tool in fashioning effective public pay and employment policies. Although the
Government and the Bank gave high priority to this component, the proposed work
programs required further definition and the Secretariat lacked the necessary capacity to
design and implement a reasonable work program.



- 41 -
20.       In 1991 unbeknownst to the Bank, the Secretariat signed a management
contract with UNDP for a US$ 1 million work program. UNDP advanced payment in
the amount of US$ 219,000 for three activities the Bank had not previously reviewed.
As an exception, the Bank agreed post facto to clear the Terms of Reference and let the
activities continue. The activities approved were a registration system of Federal goods
and services suppliers, a study on management contracts, municipal training (limited to
the state of Minas Gerais) and a political science study on parliamentarianism. Of all the
activities, the one most easily measurable was the registration system for Federal
suppliers. The system is designed to address bureaucratic inefficiencies and corruption.
The system has been developed but it is not yet fully operational. The input of data has
been completed but the computerized network accessing the system has not been hooked
up to the end-users. The system is officially established but SAF is still waiting for
US$5.0 million from the Federal Government to fully operationalize the system. Once
implemented, the system will improve inventory management, cut down inefficiency and
reduce paperwork. The system is expected to be self-sustaining.
Part A (vi), (vii): Budget Information System and Modernization of Federal Tax
Administration
Integrated Financial Management Information System in the National Treasury Secretariat
(1.850.434.78)
a) Financial Management Control System - SIAFI
21.       This component was very successful in the support it provided to the newly
created STN, which has the responsibility for managing the Federal Government's
budget. The Project financed the operational training program in order to adopt the
Treasury's integrated expenditure information and control system since the computer
system had already been developed and implemented. This training was vital because of
the substantial changes required in a large number of accounting, financial and budget
procedures. Training was also needed in order to introduce computer based technology,
which was new to many Government agencies.
22.       The system is capable of managing and efficiently monitoring the flow of all
Federal funds, from the approval authorization stages through the detailed expenditure
process and up to the final stage of monitoring and control. It provides timely
information, on at least a monthly basis, both on aggregate expenditure categories and on
detailed expenditures by program, purpose and functional responsibility. As a result of
this assistance, the Government of Brazil has more complete and consistent data on
Federal spending.
b) Integrated Budget Information and Control System (US$158,312)
23.       In 1991, STN proposed the development of an integrated budget planning and
evaluation system designed to manage and monitor Federal expenditures. In 1992, a pilot
project was implemented (SIAG) to monitor projects financed from external sources. But
the complete system is far from being fully implemented because administrative instability
at the ministerial level resulted in an uncertain institutional environment which prevented
the execution of the activities.



- 42 -
24.       The reforms necessary to implement the monitoring system require
procedural, methodological and normative changes. But above all, the strengthening of
the Government's planning system requires long term commitment as well as leadership
anid continuity, conditions which were not present in Brazil. Hence, although the pilot
project was undertaken and some research was conducted on the planning experiences of
individual states (Sao Paulo and Rio Grande do Sul) this component did not progress
according to its terms of reference. The proposed system will continue with funds from
SEPLAN but administered by UNDP.
Public Sector Investment Program
25.       The Loan Agreement provided for the Government to prepare, on a yearly
basis, commencing in 1987, proceeding through 1988, and up to 1989, a report on: i) its
multi-annual Federal public sector investment program for the following three years,
including public enterprise investment; and ii) the execution of the investment program of
the public sector during the previous fiscal year.
26.       A shift in emphasis away from a planning model, the volatility of the
economic climate, and the absence of resources for public sector investment, as well as
galloping inflation levels, resulted in questionable sustainability of the activities
undertaken.
27.       A plan was prepared in 1988 and 1989 and presented to the Bank for review.
From 1990 onwards the plan was not prepared because it become an ineffective planning
tool given the inflationar circumstances facing the country and the change in political
leadership which seriously affected any long-range planning. Multi-annual plans were
reintroduced in 1992. The loan financed studies that were used to prepare the plan but
the Bank did not comment of the final plan.
Government Assets Administration (DPU/SPU) (US$1.302.878.721
28.       This component was very successful and should have a lasting impact on
revenues. The total number of properties registered with the financing of the loan was
116,750, an increase of 51% over the total number of registrations up to 1991. Tax
collection on Government properties increased by 31% (50% of this increase is from the
state of Sao Paulo). Data entry of registered properties onto the computerized databank,
kept by the Federal Center for Data Processing Services, has been slower than expected
because of problems arising from the compatibilization of data. By 1994, another 60,000
properties will be added to the computerized databank and revenue will increase further.
The loan financed the costs of hiring consulting firms to identify properties on the
coastline located on Federal lands, through aerial surveys and through extensive work on
registrars, as well as, the development of a data processing system which allows the
Government to levy a property tax.
29.       A management audit was completed in 1988 but the organizational and
management changes recommended in the audit were not undertaken because managers
changed.
30.       Given the considerable potential for generating additional revenues, in 1993
SPU was able to obtain greater financial commitment from the Government to support its
work. In 1994, however, funds for registration were cut because of the budget constraints
caused by the fiscal crisis.



- 43 -
Tax Component3 (US$1,748,127.79)
31.       The component implemented managerial training to strengthen tax policy,
collection and control at the Federal Tax Administration. The program proposed to the
Bank comprised three areas of institutional development: the restructuring of the tax
office, training actions and additional computer systems development. The program
constituted an effort to sustain revenue over time through structural improvement in
management, organization and the actual administration of the tax office.
32.       Training was justified because the dynamics of legislative change in Brazil
make it necessary to frequently update the staff on the tax system. The adoption of
computer technology also mandated extensive training support. The tax office program
focused on modernizing its technological capacity with SERPRO's assistance.
33.       The tax office was capable of implementing planned project activities, but,
because of a lack of specific administrative capacity in task budgeting and accounting it
faced problems in meeting Bank requirements to claim reimbursements, delaying the
payments for services rendered by consultants and for equipment. DEAIN was asked to
assist the tax office in complying with Bank procedures.
Part A (viii): Advanced Auditing Training Program (US$1.371.229.15)
34.       In a broader effort to strengthen the official auditing capabilities at Federal,
state and municipal levels, an Advanced Auditing Training Program (PAAG) was offered.
The program concentrated on the introduction of modern auditing standards and methods,
financial reporting and related disciplines required for effective public sector auditing.
The ten-course training program was designed to heighten accountability, transparency
and predictability in the application of auditing rules and procedures. The course was
given to the Federal Audit Office (TCU), STN and State Audit Offices (TCEs). The
program's impact was very positive at the TCEs. But it was a costly project and difficult
to implement, given the number of institutions that were involved in its administration.
At the TCU the program was a failure.
a) TCE (US$1,036,172.31)
35.       The program of 876 hours of training was offered to 85 auditors from 21
State Auditing Offices and was completed in 1993. It took four years to administer the
ten courses. The PAAG was originally designed to be offered to 150 auditors over a
period of sixteen months. The program has had a tremendous impact among the TCEs
despite the cost of rescheduling the ten-course program several times. A group of
"Paagistas" (PAAG graduates) was formed to disseminate the program's auditing
techniques. This group is teaching PAAG seminars to those who did not attend the
formal PAAG courses. They are preparing a manual based on the techniques taught at
the PAAG courses which will be distributed among all the TCEs.
36.       The execution of the program suffered many setbacks because:
(a)  initially no formal arrangements were prepared defining responsibilities for
implementation of the components;
3. This component was incorporated onto Part A (vii) after the Loan's third amendment.



- 44 -
(b)  the agency managing the component was abolished during the Collor
administration and later reinstated;
(c)  in several cases, price was the primary factor in selecting the consultants.
This compromised the quality of the program. In one case a class had to be
repeated;
(d)  in once case, the letter of invitation was not sent to the Bank for clearance,
resulting in (i) bidders were given insufficient time to answer (one week
rather than 45 days) and (ii) the price was higher because the specification
for required course hours was overestimated.
(e)  the participant's preparation level was uneven.
37.       All of these factors contributed to a strained relationship between all parties:
ESAF (the PAAG's implementing agency), IPEA, the TCEs and the Bank. As a result
much time was spent negotiating and rescheduling to enable the completion of the ten-
course program.
38.       Responsibility for the audits of projects will increasingly be vested in private
independent auditors. This signals a shift away from intensive training programs with
government audit agencies towards reliance on the market for competent auditing
services.
(b) TCU (US$335,056.84)
39.       The TCU/PAAG program was designed in 1987 by the Bank at the request of
TCU officials. After the course was given it was verified that the auditing techniques
taught were not applicable to the methodology or to the software used by TCU. The new
techniques would require a complete change in TCU's auditing approach and
methodologies, and it would require further the purchase of software compatible with the
PAAG techniques. This serious failure to take into account TCU's current audit methods
and incorporate them into the course's design, resulted in a lack of transfer of skills to
on-the-job applications.
40.       The Bank repeatedly requested a separate audit on the financial execution of
the PAAG from its inception. Instead of a detailed report, with expenditures broken
down by several categories and associated with specific activities, the National Treasury
Department (DTN) prepared an audit report of the project's Part D, the MOF's
components (which were absorbed into Part A when MOF and SEPLAN merged into one
Ministry in 1990). It did not provide the required information and analysis and an
assessment by the auditor on the quality of the bookkeeping by the executing agency,
MOF's training center. The Bank had requested a specific audit of the program because
the documentation in support of expenditures provided by the implementing agency was
weak.
Part A (ix): Modernization of Data Processing System (US$1.050.000.36)
41.       SERPRO, the MEFP's entity responsible for the provision of computerized
services, underwent a major reformulation program. The loan financed a small
component of the overall program. The funds were used to change its organization into a
more efficient organization. SERPRO had, in 1991, reduced its staff from 15,000 to
12,000 and expected to reduce the staff to 7,000 over the following two years. The loan



- 45 -
financed consulting firms that performed operational audits. The audits examined
SERPRO's internal organization and distribution of functions, management style and
procedures, physical and financial capacities, and personnel and the development of
beneficiaries' skills.
42.       SERPRO was included after the revision of the work program of the on-
going component for the modernization of the tax administration. The tax office is the
major user of SERPRO, along with the National Treasury Secretariat. Moreover,
modemization of management practices, review of price policy, and improvement of the
technological capability of SERPRO would be very beneficial for the tax office, as well
as for the MEFP as a whole. This was a cost effective add-on to the original project,
providing a means of continuity to the modernization of the tax office.
43.       SERPRO's activities where centered in those areas where it had a distinctive
strategic advantage over the private sector. SERPRO's management understood that
operating under the conditions of a captive market created internal inefficiencies that were
at the heart of the lack of competitiveness of the enterprise. At the time this component
was included, the Bank believed that SERPRO could become a model for the public
sector for the public service sector of the Brazilian Federal administration. This
prediction was not borne out since SERPRO was plagued with internal administrative
problems (strikes) and its President changed several times during Project's
implementation.
Part B: State Enterprises (US$551.311.82)
44.       Prior to 1897, eleven SOE operational audits were completed and five were
underway. Evaluations were performed and internal groups were formed in order to deal
with the areas identified as problematic. The audit reports' quality was good as were the
recommendations for specific measures to be undertaken in order to reorganize
companies. Several companies were slated for privatization as a result of two audits
commissioned by Secretariat for State Enterprises (SEST).
45.       This component did not fully achieve the objectives as described in the
President's Report because of institutional uncertainties conceming the role and functions
of SEST. In 1987 SEST was transferred from SEPLAN to MOF. The transfer caused a
difference in salary and more than half of its staff left, paralyzing important project
activities. Responsibility for the overall coordination of SEST was transferred back to
SEPLAN in 1988.
46.       In 1988, there was a request to use SEST's funds (about 1 million) for the
privatization activities of the Conselho Federal de Desestatizacao created in March 1988.
Funds were never used but the audit reports conducted under SEST were used by this
commission.
Part C: National and Regional Information System (US$4.963.250.94)
47.       One of the most positive long-term contributions of the project was the
modernization and improvement of Brazil's statistical services. The major reorganization
of National Statistical Institute (IBGE) carried out at the end of 1986 would have yielded
few positive results, and might even have had a negative effect on staff morale, if the
PSML had not provided the resources to finance the training of key technical staff and
managers in Brazil and abroad, as well as, the modernization of the working methods and
the equipment of the statistical and geographical departments of the institute. The



- 46 -
positive results were due to the careful and systematic development of annual work plans
by the various departments of IBGE aided by specialized World Bank staff.
48.       Among the most effective analytical tools for macroeconomic and policy
analysis are reliable and timely national accounts, census data and geographic
information. The development of the national accounts consumed enormous effort, but
has resulted in a sophisticated and inclusive methodology. Extensive training of IBGE
staff, both on-the-job, as well as, during study tours (ie, the French Statistics Office -
INSEE) have built a solid base of technically qualified personnel. External training for
short periods in areas such as surveys, census, national accounts, demography has been
directly useful to IBGE. PSML funds were also used extensively to purchase a
substantial amount of computers and cartographical equipment.
49.       IBGE activities were: (i) preparation of the 1990 census; (ii) strengthening of
national accounts; (iii) development of social indicators; (iv) basic statistical economic
support; (v) strengthening of the national statistical system; (vi) acquisition of and
training in the use of cartographic equipment; (vii) enhanced dissemination capabilities,
including the acquisition of graphic equipment and library upgrading; (viii) management
training. The construction and repair of regional offices was cancelled because of the
government-wide ban on public sector construction projects imposed in 1990. The
collection of data for the production of national accounts has been decentralized. Data
are now collected and processed into computer magnetic tapes at the state level
facilitating the process of checking the accuracy of data and correcting mistakes. In the
past, the raw data was collected in each state but had to be sent to IBGE in Rio for
processing. The decentralization through the transfer of data collection and processing
responsibilities to each state has expedited the production of national accounts. A
comprehensive cartographic map of Brazil is almost complete. IBGE is launching a
project to generate revenues by selling the results of their work.
50.       Complementing the IBGE program, the initial project included a provision
for strengthening the operations of the National Accounts and Fiscal Studies Center of the
Fundacao Getulio Vargas, which has the responsibility for the preparation and publication
of Brazil's official national accounts. In 1988, the responsibility for the preparation of
national accounts was transferred from Getulio Vargas Foundation to IBGE.
51.       Disbursements were slower than expected over the project's lifetime because
IBGE underwent a major reorganization, consolidating seven departments into five. In
addition, the purchase of equipment was considerably delayed because suppliers were
unwilling to ship equipment prior to payment.
Part D: Ministry of Finance Cancelled and absorbed into Part A per third amendment
Part E: Ministry of Foreign Affairs (US$300,000)
52.       Two MRE proposals were originally considered, a Commercial Promotion
Information System and an International Market Information System. However, loan
funds were not used to develop these systems. Only in 1992 were loan funds actually
used to develop an online system, to store all the documentation and information
produced by the Mercosul trade negotiations. The software permits textual information
such as actual legislation, as well as statistics to be arranged systematically. The system
was designed to interface with existing networks, namely the Congress'.












I






I ~
--   ! 
<5    ~         ~~~~~~ 1 L.
-e~   ~          ~~~~~ I1  .- .
_.4                    .  . C 



