1
PID
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                    AWortd Froo of Povorty
tinfoShop
The Audd i,k
Report No AB63
Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                UKRAINE-First State Tax Service Modernization Project
Region                      Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                      Central government administration (100%)
Project ID                  P057815
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)                 UKRAINE
Implementing Agency         STATE TAX ADMINISTRATION OF UKRAFNE (STA)
Address                     Headquarters of the State Tax Service of Ukraine (STS)
Address: State Tax Administration of Ukraine, 6, 8 Lvivska Square. Kiev, 04655,
Ukraine
Contact Person. Mr Olexiy SHYTRIA, First Deputy Head / Modernization
Project Manger
Tel (380-44) 247-3309    Fax. (380-44) 212-4597    Email
sta_project@sta gov ua
Environment Category        C
Date PID Prepared           May 5, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         October 24, 2002
Bank Approval Date          June 5, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Main Sector Issues.
In Ukraine, the transition from an administered economy to a market-based economy has
been drawn out. Despite the decade that has passed since independence, the transition remains
unfinished. Among other things, both the productive sector and state agencies still rely on a
variety of old-style, administrative mechanisms to obtain and redirect revenues. To a large
extent, these mechanisms preempt many of the financial decisions that independent economic
actors would make in a market system. With its oversight over tax and non-tax revenues equal to
approximately 20 percent of GDP, the STS is a key feature of financial-economic administration
in Ukraine Correspondingly, it must figure prominently in any modernization of the Ukrainian
economy.
Since its inception in 1996, the State Tax Service has made substantial progress in
organizing itself into a conventional national tax authority (from its start as a collection of
decentralized administrations with dual reporting relationships to central and regional
authorities). During this period, the STS has also built up various technical capacities, including
upgraded physical facilities, staff training, some basic information system tools, and some



2
PID
strengthened procedures (e.g., audit selection). It has also made some efforts to rationalize and
streamline its organizational structures (e.g., consolidating small local offices, piloting large tax
payer offices, and simplifying the structure of Headquarters). As a result, the STS has succeeded
to maintain revenue collections in line with the performance of the national revenue agencies that
emerged from the former Soviet Union. (Comparable data series that would support finer
judgements regarding the relative revenue performance of specific national revenue authorities
are hard to obtain. The large role that non-tax revenues play in the fiscal affairs of these
countries and the divergent practices among the national tax authorities in handling non-tax
revenues, such as social insurance contributions, make comparisons of aggregates not very
meaningful.)
In Ukraine, the basic elements of tax and related legislation are present. However, they
exhibit many deficiencies. These create problems for fiscal stability and administrative
effectiveness. The prevailing legal framework is somewhat of a patchwork, reflecting its disjoint
and incremental development. It contains many ambiguities, contradictions, and special
privileges. All of which create problems for administration and for taxpayer compliance. Efforts
by the Governments and the Verkhovna Rada during the past few of years to pass a
comprehensive Tax Legislation have not yet come to fruition, despite the high priorities attached
to the new code by the President and the past two Governments.
In the meantime, the STS has struggled -- and to a reasonable degree succeeded -- to
keep its administrative practices and revenue performance in line with changing legislation. This
has been exceedingly difficult and not without setbacks and reversals. For example, VAT
collections in 2001 and 2002 have suffered in the wake of a December 2000 law that provides for
forgiveness of pre-2000 tax arrears, an extended period for paying post-2000 VAT arrears, and a
longer intra-year payment period. Slow reforms in key enterprise sectors, including energy, have
compounded the lack of financial discipline and added to the demand for further tax expenditures
and forgivenesses. Shrinkinmg dejure and defacto tax bases increased legislative churn, in turn,
hampering tax administration and burdening compliant taxpayers. In 2002-3, however, the
Ukrainian authorities have had some success in stabilizing the tax base. Revenue performance
has correspondingly improved.
Notwithstanding the mixed degree of success in revenue collection in an exceedingly
difficult environment, the administration of taxes in Ukraine is marked by inefficiencies,
inaccuracies, and unevenness, as well as corrupt practices. These problems flow from a number
of sources: both internal and external. As noted above, the legal context creates problems in
administration. Problems also arise from the absence a national culture of voluntary compliance
to the Tax Legislation, widespread dependence on administrative procedures, and substantial
tolerance for extra-legal practices within state and private entities.
Weaknesses in the STS's internal capacities are also important sources of problems in tax
administration. Skills, incentive structures, operational and management practices, information
system tools, internal controls are all aspects that need significant improvements to raise STS
efficiency and effectiveness and lighten compliance costs for taxpayers.
Weaknesses in the management of the STS are also sources of difficulties. Although
fiscal pressures lessened somewhat in 2000-1 (with the up turn in the economy and the
termination of the practice of accepting non-cash forms payment for tax obligations at the end of
1999), a high level of pressure from the expenditure side of the state budget keeps the STS in a
position where it has to continually focus on meeting detailed and disaggregated revenue targets.



3
PID
Among other things, this perpetuates a reactive, short-term management focus by the STS. These
pressures impede efforts at long-term administrative reforms, in addition to poisoning taxpayer
relations.
Government Strategy
Many of the factors affecting tax administration in Ukraine are systemic and outside of
the purview of the fiscal authorities. These include the overall performance of the economy, the
speed of reforms of the role of the state and of privatization, and the rate of progress towards a
satisfactory degree of the rule of law (especially economic/contractual law). The governments
which took office in 2000 and in 2001 respectively have publicly committed to make progress on
these fronts, often in the context of closer European Union integration. Of necessity, however,
these are long term agendas.
As mentioned above, the Government is pressing forward with improvements in the legal
context for tax policy and tax administration. With the frustration of attempts to create a
comprehensive reform though an entirely new Tax Legislation, the Government and the
Verkhovna Rada have adopted an incremental reform strategy on a tax-by-tax basis (i.e., VAT,
personal income tax, enterprise profit tax, excise taxes, etc.). This includes clarifying and
tightening the tax base definitions, rationalizing the rate structure, simplifying the procedures,
etc. Bank support for this approach comes through the Programmatic Adjustment Loan and
through an active policy dialog. As indicated above, the STSMP supports capacity building in
the legislative and statistical analysis areas, but does not target predetermined tax policy changes.
In relation to tax administration, the Government has approached the Bank to assist with
the formulation and financing of a long-term and comprehensive modernization program for the
STS. This flows from the CAS, as well as the Action Plan of the Cabinet of Ministers, dated
April 2000, and agreements reached with the Bank in the context of the Programmatic
Adjustment Loan (among other policy statements).
In accordance with a regulation of Cabinet of Ministers dated September 19, 2000, the
STA established a Modernization Department to plan, oversee, and coordinate the various
interinal and externally-supported reform efforts in tax administration. This formalizes a process
of strategic development for the STA that has been facilitated by PHIRD Grant-funded technical
assistance (TA). Through this assistance, the STA and the Bank have worked closely in
developing the modernization strategy that underpins the STSMP.
2. Objectives
The two-phase State Tax Service Modernization Program seeks to establish a sustainable
state revenue system. This includes: (a) voluntary compliance with the Tax Legislation by
taxpayers and third-party payers; (b) competent, honest, and equitable administration by the State
Tax Service; and (c) a growing and efficient enterprise sector.
*   Phase I seeks to establish sound organizational and operational foundations for the
State Tax Service. These include: (a) modernized business process and
organizational designs; (b) a consolidated and function-based structure; (c) a proven
prototype of modernized taxpayer registration, tax accounting, declaration
processing, and document management functions; (d) strengthened capacities in
priority areas of human resource management, senior and middle management,



4
PID
legislative and statistical analysis, audit, collection, large taxpayer offices, etc.; and
(e) enhanced public accountability mechanisms.
*   Phase 2 seeks to modernize STS operations on a nationwide basis and to complete
the modernization of the STS's institutional management functions (i.e., executive
management and institutional representation, legislative affairs, internal business
support, internal control, reporting and analysis, human resources, internal
administration, document and records management, institutional computing
resources).
A sustainable state revenue system is one that provides the legally mandated revenue to
the state budget -- on the basis of technically, politically, and economically sustainable
arrangements. The STSMP would seek to:
*   Increase voluntary compliance to the Tax Legislation by taxpayers, by: (a) reducing
the cost of compliance; (b) increasing the probability of discovery of tax evasion and
non-payment; (c) increasing the credibility of collections and effectiveness of dispute
resolution mechanisms; and (d) increasing taxpayer and third-party understanding of
the Tax Legislation, administrative procedures, available taxpayer services, taxpayer
rights, as well as taxpayer and STS obligations.
*   Achieve competent, honest, and equitable administration of taxes by the STS, by:
(a) improving the STS's capacity to apply the Tax Legislation accurately and
uniformly; (b) improving the STS's capacity to monitor and maintain its
administrative integrity; and (c) strengthening the public's ability to monitor and hold
the STS accountable for proper tax administration.
*   Foster economic growth by: (a) enabling a reduction in tax rates via a broader tax
base, as a result of increased compliance; (b) reducing micro-economic price
distortions via more uniform cost structures across firms, as a result of greater
compliance; (c) reducing operating costs of productive entities via lower compliance
costs and reduced corruption and administrative abuse; and (d) increasing
macro-economic stability via greater fiscal stability, as a result of sustainable
revenue performance.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Bank involvement brings to the STSMP international experience and technical
knowledge, external and internal coordination, activity integration, and project implementation
discipline.
As indicated above, the Bank has extensive experience in tax policy and tax
administration projects throughout the world. The Europe and Central Asia (ECA) region also
possesses particularly strong resources in the areas of institutional development and information
systems projects in general. Consequently, the Bank can mobilize a fair amount of expertise and
experience in these areas.
When it is most effective, the Bank plays an important role in coordinating and
catalyzing the efforts of the multiple external assistance providers that are typically working on
taxes in a country such as Ukraine. Moreover, tax administration sits at the juncture of a number
of development issues, such as fiscal policy, treasury management, customtls administration,



5
PID
enterprise and financial sector development, anti-corruption, etc. An involvement in tax
administration can effectively complement other Bank initiatives in a country. Similarly, within
a specific country the various state agencies that are directly involved in, or influence, tax
administration often are not particularly cooperative partners, especially during a period of
substantial change. The Bank can help facilitate the changes, by being a technically competent,
but relatively neutral, party to the dialogue. The Bank can also use its access to the higher levels
of government to resolve inter-agency disputes that threaten to stall an important national project.
In countries with low compliance rates and a large tax gap, the IMF's and other external
assistance providers' prescriptions are for far-reaching and integrated reforms. For an outside
assistance provider to be truly effective, it must have a long-term relationship with the tax
authorities and help bring sufficient resources and sustained attention to bear on the problem.
Otherwise the prospects for systemic change are low. The Bank, among the host of external
assistance providers, is particularly well suited to provide this long-term, resource-intensive
support
4. Description
APL - Component A (Phase 1: 2003-2007)
A 1.   Organization & Management Modernization
Al.1. Strategic project management capacity building
A 1.1.1 design, planning, & testing
A1.1.2 project management & administration
A1.2   Organizational consolidation & functionalization
Al.3. Human resource management capacity building*
Al1.4. Management capacity building*
A1.5   Legislative and statistical analysis capacity building*
A1.6   Stakeholder relations capacity building
Al.6.1 inter-agency
Al.6.2 internal
A1.6.3 community at large
A2.    Operations Modernization
A2. 1. Prototype of modernized core tax administration operations (registration,
accounting, declaration processing, and document management)
A2.2. Customer Service Call Center
A2.3. Compliance strengthening*
A2.4. Large taxpayer office strengthening*
APL -- Component B (Phase 2: 2008-2012)
B]     Organization & Management Modernization
BI .1. Strategic project management capacity building
B 1.2. Organizational streamlining
Bl .3. Institutional management capacity building
B2.    Operations Modernization



6
PID
B2. 1. National roll-out of core modernized operational (registration,
accounting, declaration processing, and document management)
B3.    Continuation of Plhase I Incremental Recurrent Costs
Note: "*" indicates priority-tactical initiatives -- as contrasted with long-term strategic
initiatives.
The inputs required to achieve the outputs associated with the various
components/sub-components include: technical assistance, training, study tours, minor civil
works, office and related equipment, vehicles, information technologies, information systems,
technical services (such as communications services, period taxpayer surveys, office site
engineering surveys) and incremental recurrent operational cost items (such as information and
communications technologies licences and maintenance, communications charges, office and
related supplies, vehicle operations and maintenance).
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                   $45.56
IBRD                       $40.00
IDA
Total Project Cost         $85 56
6. Implementation
The STS will implement the program under the management of the STA. The STA
Modernization Department will coordinate and administer the STSMP, as well as other internal
and externally-supported modernization initiatives. The Head of the Modernization Department
has personal responsibility for the STSMP and reports to the Head of the STA as well as to the
First Deputy Head of the STA (the formal Modernization Project Manager).
The Modernization Department has a substantial staff (up to 198 in accordance with the
Cabinet of Minister's September 19, 2000, regulation that established the Modernization
Department). Nevertheless, the technical and substantive aspects of the STSMP will be carried
out by teams made up of staff from Headquarters (STA), STS regional offices, and the
Modernization Department (with the facilitation of international advisors). The management of
the STSMP is tightly integrated into management of the STS as a whole. Key decisions in
relation to the STSMP are taken by the STS executive team (the Head of the STA, the First
Deputy Head, and the other seven Deputy Heads). At this juncture a separate project board is not
envisioned, since the business of reforming the STS will not be truly distinct from the business of
running the STS. The procurement and financial management aspects of the STSMP are also
integrated into corresponding arrangements within the STA. An important element of the
preparation for the STSMP has been discovering the proper balance between STSMP-specific
procedures and management arrangements and corresponding mainstream arrangements within
the STA.



7
PID
An expressed goal of the STSMP is to strengthen the STS's capacity to plan and execute
strategic investment projects -- as a permanent institutional function. Accordingly, investments
to govern, manage, analyze, administer, monitor, and evaluate the STSMP will be integrated into
a Strategic Project Management Sub-component within the Organization and Management
Component (in both phases). (See Section C sub-section 1 for an outline of the STSMP
component structure.) This approach contrasts to the more typical arrangement of a
"stand-alone" project management component or sub-component aimed more narrowly at the
Bank-financed project.
As an important element of building the STA's permanent capacity to manage strategic
projects, the STA has adopted (and adapted) a number of international standards, formal methods
for project management and business systems analysis methods to apply to the STSMP
(including ISO 12207 and 15504). These, and other formal methods, will help keep the
complexity of the Modernization Program from overwhelming the STS. These methods will also
be instrumental in managing the program, in the face of inevitable changes in the legal, technical,
and political environments (as well as personnel changes). These formal methods, and the
disciplined documentation they require; provide the STA and the Bank with a rich set of dated
deliverables with which to closely supervise program progress.
Among other things, the formal methods include quality assurance and configuration
(change) management. These are controlling and auditing functions. They are the
responsibilities of specific sub-units of the Modernization Department. (See Figure 1.) For
integrity purposes, these units also maintain independent reporting relationships directly to the
Project Manager (the First Deputy Head of the STA). Project monitoring and evaluation are also
closely allied functions to be performed by the Modernization Department. Among other things,
these include tracking of the agreed-upon Key Performance Indicators and other progress
indicators (including periodic taxpayer and staff surveys). Monitoring and evaluation also
include the maintenance of the financial management system, including the production of the
periodic financial management reports (FMR), the annual reports, the mid-term review (MTR)
and the implementation completion report (ICR).



8
PID
Figure 1 Organization of Modernization Department
STA Head
STA First Deputy Head
Modernization Department hlead
X  Activity Control  
Personnel           Quality Control
Legal Support     Configuration Managemcnt
| Deputy Head       Fis Deut Head        Deputy Head I
PrOcurementat ofnBankfinan c Program Developmenti, shl_b .nern  intac
Bank procedumnResouand Mth crePoanding, Gunideine,Rs.  g
I Management, & ExteFnal
Information System  n   Im Affairs     Project Ftancial
Development DaManagement and Accounting D
Information System u dTax Admth istration  Offnice
re  Implementation        o Enhancement Unit   procedues. Umt   S
tTechmncal and  financia manag Tax Audit Enhancempot   and esr t   I
Supponrl
Curbing Tax Infringem-ents
Informatiori S¢c t     nt & _nbcorrupbo
Procurement of Bank-financed activities shall be undertaken in accordance with standard
Bank procedures and the corresponding Guidelines.
Financial Management (see Annex 6BJfor Financial ManagementAssessment Report)
*   Implementing agency. Implemenitation of the Project would be undertaken by the STA
Modernization Department aoed the STA. Modernization Department was created as a
separate unit under the authority of State Tax Administration to provide and to be
responsible for impleinentation of modernization procedures. The STA Modernization
Department is to be responsible for the management of all project activities, including
procurement, disbursement operations preparation, and financial reporting preparation. It
would maintain books of accounts for the project, prepare and disseminate financial
statements and financial management reports, and ensure timely audit of tile ftiialicial
statements. STA financial and accounting departments will organize supervision and
control functions over the operations of the STA Modernization Department and will
provide authorization for the operations. Representatives of the State Tax
Administration Management will sign financial documents of the project.



9
PID
All the documents supporting the operations under the project will be submitted to the
financial department of STA for their control, safeguard and reporting. Copies of the
document will be placed with the STA Modernization Department.
*   Fundsflow: The Project funds flow is designed to manage funds provided by the World
Bank and Government. The World Bank funds will be deposited at the loan account and
will be used for direct payments and transfers to the Special account; funds from the
Special Account opened in the commercial bank acceptable to World Bank will be used
for local payments and foreign contract payments; the third part of funds is STA
co-financing, which is the subject to budget procedures regulations that require State
Treasury involvement, and stipulates that this amount will be charged under the normal
regulations stated in STA Modernization Department for other budget spending. Budget
funds will also be used for the payments of duties and taxes.
The disbursement process will conform to the Bank disbursement procedures.
* Reporting and monitoring: The new financial department unit of the Modernization
department will submit quarterly reports on commitments, disbursements under the
project to the Bank. This report is to be supervised by the Kyiv-based FMS. The
financial department will prepare quarterly financial monitoring reports (FMRs) for the
Project. The FMRs will include the following areas: (a) Financial Reports (b) Project
Progress Reports and (c) Procurement Management Reports. These financial reports will
be submitted to the Bank within 45 days of the end of each quarter. The first quarterly
FMRs will be submitted not later than 45 days after the end of the first quarter after the
Effective Date. The form of FMR has been agreed and found acceptable to the Bank.
FMRs forms are attached to the Report.
* Disbursements: Disbursements from the World Bank Loan will be made based on
traditional disbursement methods (i.e., from the Special Account with reimbursements
made based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and full documentation, and direct
payments from the Loan Account). The proceeds of the World Bank loan will be
allocated in accordance with Table C (disbursement), Annex 6. To facilitate timely
project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and operate, under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, one separate Special Account denominated
in USD. The State Tax Administration Modernization Department will also open a local
account for local expenditures in the State Treasury.
7. Sustainability
Tax administration is a core state function. Thus, the STS is likely to remain active and
its role stable. This should translate into a sustained need for the functions and capacities built
under the STSMP. As the cost-recovery analysis shows, the investments cover their costs even
with a very low increase in compliance rates. This should ensure financial sustainability at the
level of the consolidated government budget.
Nevertheless, there are always uncertainties whether the Government would return
sufficient funds to STS out of the improved tax revenues. These are essential to cover the
recurrent and depreciation costs associated with information technologies.
In relation to sustained government support for the STS and the STSMP investments, it
is important to note that increased voluntary compliance to the Tax Legislation, which is a
central objective of the STSMP, is also a measure of the popular legitimacy of the tax regime and



10
PID
the tax administrator. Thus, the success of the STSMP in transforming the relationship between
the STS and the rest of Ukrainian society to one based on openness, accountability, and service
orientation, should translate into an increase in the legitimacy of the STS and its role. This, in
turn, should translate into the political support required to maintain the STS's resource allocation
at a sufficient level to sustain the STSMP investments. Of course, the failure of the STSMP to
affect the transformation of the STS would leave the STSMP investments vulnerable to
inadequate financial resources to sustain them.
The "losers" in the process of increasing the integrity of tax administration may present
risks of politically-driven, budget cuts for the STS, and/or threats to undermine the STS's roles
and powers. Both may negatively affect the sustainability of the STSMP investments.
Below the level of political risks, the single most critical technical risk factor in the
sustainability of the investments is the ability of the STS to retain informatics and other
specialized staff in the face of large wage differentials between the public and private sectors for
these skills. The STS currently enjoys some advantaged remuneration scheme, vis-a-vis the rest
of the civil service. This should help the STS attract and retain a reasonable level of quality in
its general operations and administrative functions. However, there are specialized positions,
such as informatics specialists, senior auditors, and tax lawyers, for which the wage differential
to the private sector is quite large. As private sector employment becomes less risky, the
difficulty of attracting and retaining these specialists will become even more acute. Such
problems are endemic in the public sector around the world and tend only to diminish as the
focus of the state shrinks to the essential core activities and the state can afford to compensate
staff competitively. Outsourcing and other contractual arrangements for high demand specialists
can help address the problem. However, these contracting arrangements also create their own
challenges, by raising the level of required in-house expertise necessary to specify, select,
monitor, and manage sophisticated, outsourced technical services. They also can be divisive.
The STSMP will seek to address these issues as part of the set initiatives in the human resource
areas, as well as those initiatives in focused in specialized areas such as strengthening the STS's
information systems planning and management capacities.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The IMF has participated in many tax administration reform efforts. Silvani and Baer
(1997) summarize the lessons learned in "Designing a Tax Administration Reforn Strategy:
Experiences and Guidelines", IMF Working Paper WP/97/30. They state the following
principles.
*   Political commitment to and the sustainability of the reforms are crucial.
*   Simplify the tax system to facilitate administration and reduce compliance costs.
*   Encourage voluntary compliance.
*   Formulate a clear strategy.
*   Identify the tax and accounting laws that require change.
*   Take an integrated approach to the tax collection process.
*   Differentiate the treatment of taxpayers by size.
*   Ensure effective management of the reform process.



11
PID
*   Set priorities and establish a timetable.
*   Begin fundamental reforms with pilot projects.
*   Identify bottlenecks.
These principles have also guided the STSMP design.
The World Bank has also undertaken a large number of projects that touch on tax policy
and tax administration. Eighty-three of these are surveyed in Barbone, Das-Gupta, De Wulf, and
Hansson 1999. "Reforming Tax Systems: The World Bank Record in the 1990s". Policy
Research Working Paper 2237, World Bank, Washington, DC. The findings are also
recapitulated in PREM note number 37 (April 2000). Distilling the lessons learned from
investment operations:
*   Diagnosis and project design should embrace a strategic vision of the tax
administration, including institutional issues, such as accountability, client services,
cost-effectiveness, anti-corruption, and good governance, in addition to the
traditional concerns of tax administrators for strengthening operational capacities
*   The project design, including pace and phasing, should carefully match the
implementation capacity of the agency and the country context.
*   Performance indicators need to be devised, benchmarked, tracked, and compared
against best practices. Among other sources, the indicators should draw upon
taxpayer surveys.
Among the numerous lessons learned and incorporated in the STSMP, one of the most
challenging is to ensure sustained political commitment to the reform program. The STSMP
preparation has proceeded in a carefully gauged fashion and moved forward only when there are
clear signs from the leadership of the STS (and other quarters) that it is serious about reforms.
The preparation work has also included efforts to lock-in as much as possible the support for the
STSMP. In particular, the STSMP preparation process has been based on the commitment to the
Bank by the Head of the STA to establish an independent Oversight Panel for STS activities and
to establish an independent advisory body comprising key stakeholders in tax administration in
Ukraine -- the STS's Public Collegium. The Public Collegium had its founding meeting on June
16, 2002, and its first working meeting on July 9, 2002. The Oversight Panel is pending funding
arrangements. Corresponding reforn visions statements have been promulgated by the Cabinet
of Ministers and the Head of the STA. These serve as public declarations of the principles of the
reforms and standards against which the accountability bodies can measure the progress of the
reform of the tax system and the transformation of the STS's relationship with the rest of
Ukrainian society.
These accountability mechanisms will help establish both a constituency and a feedback
mechanism for the reform process, ensuring that it is not simply dependent on the intentions and
commitment of the officers of the STS or specific government figures. Of course, this is not an
iron-clad mechanism. Another mechanism to help foster political commitment to the STSMP is
a technical design that seeks as many "early wins" as possible without stalling the long-term
reforms. The division of the STSMP into a stream of strategic initiatives as well as
priority-tactical initiatives is, in part, designed to achieve some early wins. The division should
also help cement the political support derived from the involvement of the other bilateral and
multilateral external assistance providers, since many of the priority-tactical initiatives under



12
PID
STSMP are extensions and/or support to the initiatives launched by the other external assistance
providers. The bottom line, however, is that in a fluid and delicate political environment like
Ukraine, there is a real limit to the effectiveness of external mechanisms to lock-in political
commitment -- both technical or governance mechanisms. Nevertheless, the STSMP has sought
to exploit all those available.
In short: Automation is not enough. Operational procedures also need to be redesigned,
streamlined, and otherwise strengthened. Moreover, operational capacity building is not enough.
The broader institutional setting needs to be addressed. This includes the organizational
structure, management roles, responsibilities, and practices. Similarly, staff roles,
responsibilities, practices, and general institutional culture are critical elements in a
modernization program. Institutional functions such as strategic project management, human
resources and information systems planning and management, internal auditing and other
integrity controls, general administration, etc., are also key determinants of success. The
modernization of the tax agency's organization, management and operations are also insufficient.
Projects need to address elements that lie outside the agency boundaries, such as public and
professional relations, client education and outreach, dispute resolution mechanisms, etc.
A counterpoint to the above lessons, however, is that there are many challenges and
pitfalls in complex projects. Institutional development projects are, by their nature, complex (as
is information systems development). Moreover, they are always exploratory processes. They
depend greatly on specific local conditions and on the capacity of the implementing agency to
manage their complex and fluid natures. Because of their high degree of interdependence and
multi-year gestation periods, such projects are exposed to risks associated with:
*   Changes of government
*   Changes in the agency and project management.
*   Rapid and continuous changes in tax legislation.
*   The inability of traditional organizations to relinquish the discretion afforded by
paper-based systems in favor of the precision and impartiality of modern, integrated
revenue administration systems.
*   The inability to attract and retain qualified informatics and other highly specialized
financial professionals in the face of large public sector -- private sector wage
differentials for those skills.
These risks are above and beyond the technical and technological challenges of tax
administration modernization. (See for example, the ICRs for the Hungary Tax Administration
Modernization Project and the Philippines Tax Computerization Project.)
Broadly speaking, the STSMP reflects the lessons learned and recorded in the IMF and
Bank documents. It encompasses organizational and management features, as well as operational
features. It focuses on the STS but not to the exclusion of initiatives aimed at actors outside of
the agency (e.g., the MOF, MOE, and the Verkhovna Rada). To manage the risks associated
with such an institutional development/information systems project, the program is phased. A
sequence of coherent and consistent initiatives build towards a long-term goal of the
transformation of the STS, without making the entire program hostage to any negative
development that may occur during the long program period. (The Philippines tax project ICR
underscores this point.)



13
PID
The extraordinary rate of change in information technologies and related methodologies
presents well known and frequently cited challenges, as do the need to package technologies and
related services into coherent and manageable contracts. A greater challenge, however, is the
collection of issues grouped together as "Change Management". This includes fostering
acceptance of changing organizations, roles, business processes, technologies, and service
standards by agency staff, managers, clients and other agencies where there is a close interaction
at the operational level (e.g., the Customs Administration, and/or the State Statistics Committee).
Change management also encompasses the technical/managerial problems of running old and
new processes in parallel during extended transition periods. Among other things, this can easily
overwhelm the small handful of key staff that understand the administration's business processes
and the inner workings of the agency's older and typically patchwork information systems.
The role of key senior staff from the core of the various tax administration functions is
also critical in the design phase for the new systems to support new administration processes.
All too often the technological aspects of such systems modernization initiatives wind up
dominating the design work. It is critical for success that the business professionals lead the
effort. Only they have the necessary skills and experience to take the required design decisions
and establish priorities among competing design considerations. (The Hungary project ICR
underscores this point.) The transformation of the project concept, from its early days as a
proposal for a tax automation project (in 1998-99) to a sweeping reform of the STS's
organization, management, and operational arrangements reflects the efforts to incorporate these
lessons. The steady transformation of the planning and implementation management
arrangements for the STSMP also reflect these lessons. At the outset, the Bank's technical
counterparts were a relatively small group, with a high proportion of outsiders. At this stage, the
counterparts are a large group including the senior technical and executive management of the
STS. The use of formal international standards for business process analysis and program
management (based on ISO 15504 and 12207) also helps ensure that the business needs are
maintained in the forefront, while capitalizing on the rigor and discipline of methods developed
in the context on contemporary information systems projects.
Regarding Bank project preparation and supervision, a few points are commonly cited.
Both the Hungary and Philippine ICRs point out the importance of continuity of the project team.
They both highlight the benefits of having qualified informatics professionals on the team
(among other things, to smooth procurement actions for the large systems contracts). The
Philippine ICR indicated that, in retrospect, the Bank team should have included a tax
administrator and that relying solely on the IMF to cover this area was not an adequate approach.
The Hungarian ICR echoed this concern. Both the Hungary and Philippine ICRs suggest that the
project's implementation suffered from haste. The Hungary ICR indicated that fast-track
preparations left substantial investments undefined. The Philippine 1CR indicated that the
implementation phase should have been broken into sequential sub-projects and implemented
over an eight to ten year period (instead of the planned five year period). In both cases,
supervision requirements were high. The Philippine ICR noted that the actual supervision input
was two and half times the forecast input in the Staff Appraisal Report. The Hungarian ICR
noted that having the Bank task manager stationed in Hungary greatly enhanced the Bank's role
to help manage activities on essentially a day-to-day basis.
In short, such institutional development/information systems projects are supervision
intensive and dependent on high quality preparation. To every extent possible, the preparation
standards for the STSMP have been maintained at a high level. During implementation, the



14
PID
already strong project team representation in the Kyiv resident mission will be strengthened.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues:
The project is not likely to involve any new construction or expansion, or demolition of
entire buildings. The civil works will deal mainly with refurbishment and remodeling inside
existing buildings.
Minor disturbances may be caused by noise, dust, disruptions associated with movement
of men, materials and equipment. Reconstruction wastes will have to be properly disposed of.
The TOR for the engineering consultants will include the obligation to incorporate into
the bidding documents appropriate environmental clauses and ensure that the construction
activities are carried out in accordance with adequate safety and environmental protection
measures. Special attention should be given to the proper handling and disposal of asbestos
materials, mercury containing bulbs, and any other hazardous substances. Building wastes
containing asbestos will not be recycled and reused in construction activities financed by the
project.
10. List of factual technical documents:
11. Contact Point:
Task Team Leader
Craig R. Neal
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone 202-473-2316
Fax: 202-614-0155
12. For information on other project related documents contact.
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C. 20433
Telephone (202) 458-5454
Fax    (202) 522-1500
Web http 11 www worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending  05/05/2003



15
PID
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH .        = , - %11 _FEEDBACK ,          -    | lE MAP.CASE   | 



