Page  1
July 15, 1999
Mr. Roman Shpek
Chairman, National Agency of Ukraine for
 Development and European Integration 
Bogdana Khmelnytskoho 19a
Kyiv 252030
Ukraine
Re:
Japanese Grant for Institutional Development APL
Grant Number TF025817 (Recipient-Executed Portion)
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding US$250,000 (the 
Grant) to Ukraine (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Framework Grant Agreement between Ukraine and the Bank, dated January 14, 1998, and in 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement, which forms an integral part of this Letter 
Agreement. The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is 
authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said 
terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Paul J. Siegelbaum
Country Director
Belarus, Ukraine Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia
AGREED:
By /s/ Roman Shpek, Chairman, 
National Agency of Ukraine for Development 
    and European Integration
Bogdana Khmelnytskoho 19a, 
Kyiv 252030
Ukraine
DATE: September 7, 1999
Annex to the Letter Agreement
For Grant Number TF025817
(Recipient-Executed Portion)
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Activities
The purposes of the Grant are to assist in the preparation of the Institutional 
Development Project (the Project), which has as its main objectives: (a) enhance the 
Page  2
Government of Ukraine’s capacity to sustain the reform effort; (b) foster the 
development of critical market institutions; and (c) provide efficient government 
services.
1.1.
The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
Foster Institutional Capacity Development: (a) transfer knowledge to analyze 
business processes and/or data flows and develop a regulatory and operational 
framework; (b) develop internal capacity to produce organizational and management 
studies; (c) develop internal capacity to produce and participate in developing 
interim system specifications and requirements for tax administration, customs and 
statistics; and (d) assess and implement training requirements for the institutional 
development.
Develop Information Technology/Systems: (a) build capacity for operational 
systems, (i.e., software design, technology architecture, communications); (b) develop 
interim systems including development of application software and procurement of 
hardware; (c) develop, install, and test final IT and operational systems for tax 
administration, customs and statistics; and (d) develop coordinating mechanisms, 
policies, and standards to ensure integrated operation of system country-wide.
Project Support Activities: (a) sponsor local dissemination workshops; and (b) 
carry out study tours.
1.2
Grant funds estimated at US$5,000 will be used to procure office equipment 
(goods) in support of the Activities.
Implementation Generally
2.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the 
use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall reasonably request; (d) from time 
to time exchange views with the Bank’s representatives on the progress and results of 
the Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the Bank to 
visit the territory of Ukraine for purposes related to the Grant. Without limitation 
on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so request, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of the Activities.
3.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the Grant
   % of
   Allocated (in
Expenditures to
Item
US Dollars)
be Financed
(1)
Consultants’
215,000
100%
services
(2)
Workshops
       30,000
100%
-Study Tour
(3)
Goods
  5,000
100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and 80% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
For purposes of this paragraph, the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of Ukraine for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of Ukraine, and 
the term "local expenditures" means any expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Letter 
Agreement; or (ii) after June 30, 2001 or such later date as the Bank shall establish 
by written notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), except that withdrawals may be 
Page  3
made for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date and received by the Bank 
within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the Grant 
remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled.
5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) services of consulting firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (b) services of individual consultants costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent; and (c) goods, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
6.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial 
bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
7.
Accounts and Audits
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
8.
Suspension and Cancellation
8.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if the Recipient has 
failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified.
8.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 8.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within six months after 
the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
9.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ 
services and goods required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment II 
to this Annex.
Page  4
Attachment I to the Annex to the 
Letter Agreement
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the table in 
paragraph 3 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $75,000 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts out of the proceeds of the 
Grant as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the 
Grant Account under the eligible item(s), and in the 
respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph 7 (b) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any 
of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
Page  5
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 8 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
Attachment II to the Annex to the 
Letter Agreement
Procurement
Section I.
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines": Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section 
I.
Part B:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for Technical Assistance under Part A of the Project estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for Technical Assistance under Part A of the Project which are 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for Technical Assistance under Part A of the Project tasks that meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  6
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan 
for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 
1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Procurement of Goods
Goods shall be procured: (a) in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) under contracts awarded on the basis of 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. The review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply to such contracts, provided that the word "bids", in such 
paragraph 4, shall be read as "quotations".
