Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4698 -UA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(First State Tax Service Modernization Project) 
 
between 
 
UKRAINE  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
Dated September 4, 2003 
 
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4698-UA 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 4, 2003, between UKRAINE (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A)  the Bank has received a letter dated November 6, 2002 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to support a 
long-
term and comprehensive upgrading of the country’s State Tax Service (“STS” as 
hereinafter further defined in paragraph (l) of Section 1.02 of this Agreement) and 
development of a viable state tax collection system, including: (i) voluntary adherence to 
the tax legislation of the Borrower by taxpayers; (ii) competent, honest, and just 
administration of taxes by the STS; and (iii) dynamic economic development of the 
entrepreneurial sector (the Program), and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
execution of the said Program;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested the Bank’s support in the execution of the 
Program through a series of two (2) loans over a period of approximately ten (10) years 
to be utilized by the Borrower for implementing the Program;  
 
(C) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the first phase of the Program described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), 
has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) with the following modification to 
paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 thereof constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
"(c) 
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall 
Page  4
-
2
-
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and 
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Loan." 
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Category” means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and 
the term “Categories” means more than one (1) Category collectively; 
 
(b) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any 
of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year; 
 
(d) 
“Development and Modernization Department” means the functional 
unit within the State Tax Administration (“STA” as hereinafter further defined in 
paragraph (k) of this Section) established and functioning pursuant to the provisions of 
the Decree of the Borrower’s Cabinet of Ministers No. 1454 dated September 19, 2000, 
as amended from time to time; 
 
(e) 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” means the agreed performance 
indicators set forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by the Borrower under 
the Project to measure the progress in the implementation of the Project and the degree to 
which the objectives thereof are being achieved; 
 
(f) 
“Operations Manual” means the manual developed by the STA and 
adopted by its Order No. 47 the dated January 31, 2003, setting forth the procedures and 
responsibilities to be utilized by the STA in the oversight, administration and technical 
management of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Section II of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“Oversight Panel” means the high-level independent panel to be 
established by the Borrower for the purposes of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2 of Section I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the Project Preparation Advance 
No. P3850-UA granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the Letter Agreement 
Page  5
-
3
-
signed on behalf of the Bank on June 28, 2001 and on behalf of the Borrower on 
November 21, 2001; 
 
(i) 
“Public Collegium” means the consultative assembly established by the 
Order No. 216 of the STA dated May 10, 2002, and referred to in paragraph 3 of     
Section I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(j) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“State Tax Administration” and “STA” mean the Borrower’s specialized 
executive agency established and functioning pursuant to the provisions of the 
Borrower’s Presidential Decree No. 760/96, dated August 22, 1996, regarding “On 
Setting Up of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine and the Local State Tax 
Administrations” and Presidential Decree No. 886/2000, dated July 13, 2000, regarding 
“On Adoption of the Statute  of the State Tax Administration”, and the Borrower’s Law 
No. 509-XII, dated December 4, 1990, regarding “On State Tax Service in Ukraine”, as 
amended from time to time; and 
 
(l) 
“State Tax Service” and “STS” mean the institutional structure set up 
under Article 1 of the Borrower’s Law No. 509-XII, dated December 4, 1990, regarding 
“On State Tax Service in Ukraine”, as amended from time to time, and consisting of:      
(i) the State Tax Administration and the state tax administrations in the Autonomous 
Republic of Crimea, regions (
Oblasts
), and the cities of Kyiv and Sevastopol; and (ii) the 
state tax inspectorates in the districts, cities (except Kyiv and Sevastopol), and the city 
districts. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to forty 
million dollars ($40,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. 
(a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of: (i) the 
reasonable cost of goods, technical services and services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a separate special deposit account in a foreign commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. 
(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus the LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Interest 
Payment 
Date” 
means 
any 
date 
specified 
in         
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
Page  7
-
5
-
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR 
Total 
Spread” 
means, 
for 
each 
Interest 
Period:           
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate and the 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. 
(a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the STA with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering, 
environmental, financial, fiscal, and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the procurement of the 
goods 
and the selection and employment of the consultants’ services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through the STA, shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower, through the STA, shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a
format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through the STA, shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
Page  9
-
7
-
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through the 
STA, shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. 
(a)  Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 4 of Section II of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the 
Borrower, through the STA, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring 
report (FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
Page  10
-
8
-
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as of the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of the first quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after each subsequent quarter, and shall cover such quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Termination 
 
Section 6.01. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. 
The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
12/2 Hrushevsky St. 
 
Kyiv, 01008 
 
Ukraine 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
131450 
  (380-44) 
293-6256 
 
(380-44) 201-5684 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Kyiv, Ukraine, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UKRAINE 
 
By  /s/ Mykola Yanovych Azarov 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/ Luca Barbone 
Director 
Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova 
Europe and Central Asia 
Page  12
-
10 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:   
 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods and 
17,650,000 
100% of foreign expenditures, 
 
Technical Services 
 
100% of local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost), and 
 
80%
of local expenditures for 
 
other items procured locally 
 
(2) 
Consultants' and Training 
 
services, including services  
 
for audits:  
 
(a)  Foreign consulting 
5,320,000 
100%  
 
firms and individual  
 
consultants 
 
(b)   Local consulting 
12,000,000 
87% 
 
firms 
 
(c)   Local individual 
560,000 
92% 
 
consultants 
 
(3) Study 
Tours 
480,000 
100% 
 
(4) 
Refunding of Project  
2,000,000 
Amounts due pursuant 
 
Preparation Advance 
 
to Section 2.02 (c) of 
 
this Agreement 
 
(5) 
Front-end fee 
400,000 
Amount due under  
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6) Unallocated 
1,590,000
TOTAL 40,000,000
Page  13
-
11 - 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
(c) 
the term “foreign consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is 
registered or incorporated in the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(d) 
the term “foreign individual consultant” means an individual consultant 
who is a national of a territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(e) 
the term “local consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is 
registered or incorporated in the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(f) 
the term “Technical Services” means expenditures incurred to finance 
the cost of reproduction of informational materials and provision of pre-distribution 
packaging services under Part A.6 of the Project. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods, under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each, excluding those referred to in paragraph 2 (b) (i), (ii) 
and (iii) of Part D of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (ii) services of consulting 
firms  and  training,  under  contracts  costing  less  than  $100,000  equivalent  each;              
(iii) services of individual consultants, under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each, excluding those to be selected on a sole source basis and referred to in 
paragraph 2 (b) of Part D of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (iv) training 
under study tours referred to in paragraph 3 of Section II of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
Page  14
-
12 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to establish sound organizational and operational 
foundations for the STS, including: (i) modernized business process and organizational 
designs; (ii) a consolidated and function-based structure; (iii) a proven prototype of 
modernized taxpayer registration, tax accounting, declaration processing, and document 
management functions; (iv) strengthened capacities in priority areas such as human 
resource management, senior and middle management, legislative and statistical analysis, 
audit, collection, and large taxpayer offices; and (v) enhanced public accountability 
mechanisms. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A:
Organization and Management Modernization
1. 
Strategic Project Management
Carrying out of a program to build the STA’s capacity to implement major 
strategic initiatives as a permanent institutional management function, and which 
includes the following activities: 
 
1.1. 
Design, Planning and Testing
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to support the 
implementation of an integrated agenda for the Program, entailing analysis, detailed 
design and testing activities thereof, and specifically including the development and 
implementation of: (i) a strategic plan establishing the basic principle, key goals and 
measurable objectives of the STS and its modernization process; (ii) a high level action 
plan for the Program; (iii) a functional organization design document; (iv) conceptual and 
logic data models for the STS’s modernized business processes; (v) concept of operations 
(ConOPS) documents for each of the major management and operational business 
processes of the STS; (vi) top-level integrated requirements documents (TLIRD) 
specifying at the highest level the array of initiatives needed to implement the Program; 
(vii) an integrated systems architecture document; (viii) the detailed, time and resource-
bound action plan for the Program; (ix) a legislation and regulator change plan 
identifying the legal and regulatory changes required to implement the STS’s modernized 
business processes; and (x) the STA’s development and testing laboratory for software 
and modernized procedures. 
 
Page  15
-
13 - 
1.2. Project 
Management
Provision of technical assistance, training, and equipment and carrying out of 
premises reconfiguration to support the STS’s capacity to manage the Program itself and 
assure its quality, including the technical and substantive aspects of the Program, the 
procedural facets of Project administration, the carrying out of annual audits under the 
Loan and monitoring and evaluation activities, and focusing primarily on the 
Development and Modernization Department and encompassing, as needed, the provision 
of training to the staff of the STA and the Development and Modernization Department 
on general Project management methods and tools and of equipment required to manage 
and coordinate the activities of STA staff and managers and other public agencies 
responsible for the successful implementation of the Program. 
 
2. Organizational 
Consolidation
On the basis of the business process and organizational design developed under 
Part A.1.1 of the Project, carrying out of a process of organizational consolidation of the 
STS’s structure aimed at: (i) further consolidating its administrative structure into 
approximately ten (10) sub-regional units and one hundred twenty (120) inter-district 
(
rayon
)
units; (ii) suitably scaling back operations at the local level to the extent 
technically and politically practical; and (iii) setting the stage for major streamlining of 
operations at the lowest level during the second phase of the Program, and encompassing 
the provision of technical assistance, training, study tours, and equipment and carrying 
out of premises reconfiguration to plan, manage and implement support the restructuring 
of the STS’s management, staff and facilities. 
 
3. 
Human Resource Management Capacity Building
Carrying out of a program to adequately address the priority-tactical needs of the 
STA in the area of human resource management so as to enable the STA to address the 
pressing human resource needs of its large organization and strengthen its training 
capability, including, as required, the provision of technical assistance and training. 
 
4. 
Executive and Line Management Capacity Building
Carrying out of a program to adequately address the priority-tactical needs of the 
STA in the area of executive and middle management capacity building, including, as 
required, the provision of technical assistance and training to prepare the STA’s 
executive and middle management teams for the reforms to be implemented under the 
Program, and training of the STA management team in cotemporary management 
practices. 
 
Page  16
-
14 - 
5. 
Legislative and Statistical Analysis
Carrying out of a program to adequately address the priority-tactical needs of the 
STA, the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Economy and Issues of 
European Integration, the Customs Administration and the Parliament (
Verkovna Rada
)
committees in the area of legislative and statistical analysis of tax policy and 
administration, through the provision, 
inter alia
,
of
technical assistance, training, study 
tours, equipment and modeling tools to support their capacity building in legislative 
analysis, regulatory drafting, revenue forecasting and statistical analyses, and to 
strengthen the STA’s ability to move data from the lower levels of the organization 
upwards the organization in the form of aggregated statistical data. 
 
6. Stakeholder 
Relations
Carrying out of a program to adequately address needs of the STA in the area of 
stakeholder relations management, through the provision of technical assistance, training, 
study tours, communications and informational services to strengthen and extend the 
STA’s interactions with its internal and external stakeholders, so as to facilitate the 
success of the reforms under the Program and promote a culture of voluntary compliance 
with taxpayer obligations under the tax legislation. 
 
Part B:
Operations Modernization
1. 
Prototype Core Tax Administration Operations
Carrying out of a program to prototype the functional organizational 
arrangements and modernized procedures developed under Part A.1.1 of the Project for 
the core of tax administration operations, including, 
inter alia
,
taxpayer registration, tax 
accounting, declaration processing, and document management, specifically through the 
implementation of a plan to refine and test such functions in a selected region, and 
comprising:  
 
1.1. Prototype 
support
Provision of technical assistance and training for the prototype planning, 
implementation, troubleshooting and evaluation. 
 
1.2. Prototype 
Implementation
Provision of technical assistance, training, study tours, equipment and vehicles 
and carrying out of premises reconfiguration for the development of a mixed manual, 
semi-automated and automated information systems to handle the modernized 
operational functions of, 
inter alia
,
taxpayer registration, tax accounting and declaration 
process, encompassing: (i) business logic development, including, as appropriate, forms 
revision; (ii) technology platform development, including, 
inter alia
,
processing, storage, 
Page  17
-
15 - 
data and voice communications; (iii) user training, including information technology and 
operational training; and (iv) technical training for systems staff and responsible 
managers. 
 
2. 
Customer Service Call Center
Carrying out of a program to implement a call center for telephone-based 
taxpayer services in tandem with the internal help desk facilities to be implemented under 
Part A.1.1 of the Project, including the provision of equipment. 
 
3. Compliance 
Strengthening
Carrying out of a program to design, plan and supervise the implementation of 
initiatives to address priority-tactical needs of the STA in the areas of audit and collection 
functions, including the provision of technical assistance. 
 
4. 
Large Taxpayer Office Support
Carrying out of a program to design, plan and supervise the implementation of 
initiatives to strengthen and extend the coverage of the STA’s large taxpayers offices, 
including the provision of technical assistance. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007. 
 
Page  18
-
16 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars
)
*
February 15, 2009 
1,160,000 
 August 
15, 
2009    1,170,000 
 February 
15, 
2010 
   1,185,000 
 August 
15, 
2010    1,195,000 
 February 
15, 
2011 
   1,205,000 
 August 
15, 
2011    1,215,000 
 February 
15, 
2012 
   1,230,000 
 August 
15, 
2012    1,240,000 
 February 
15, 
2013 
   1,250,000 
 August 
15, 
2013    1,265,000 
 February 
15, 
2014 
   1,275,000 
 August 
15, 
2014    1,285,000 
 February 
15, 
2015 
   1,300,000 
 August 
15, 
2015    1,310,000 
 February 
15, 
2016 
   1,325,000 
 August 
15, 
2016    1,335,000 
 February 
15, 
2017 
   1,350,000 
 August 
15, 
2017    1,360,000 
 February 
15, 
2018 
   1,375,000 
 August 
15, 
2018    1,385,000 
February 15, 2019 
 
 
 
1,400,000 
August 15, 2019 
 
 
 
1,410,000 
February 15, 2020 
 
 
 
1,425,000 
August 15, 2020 
 
 
 
1,440,000 
February 15, 2021 
 
 
 
1,450,000 
August 15, 2021 
 
 
 
1,465,000 
February 15, 2022 
 
 
 
1,480,000 
August 15, 2022 
 
 
 
1,495,000 
February 15, 2023 
 
 
 
1,505,000 
August 15, 2023 
 
 
 
1,515,000 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
Page  19
-
17 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Technical Services
Part A
:
General
Goods and technical services consisting of reproduction of informational 
materials and provision of pre-distribution packaging services under Part A.6 of the 
Project, shall be procured in accordance with: (i) the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines); and (ii) the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and technical 
services consisting of reproduction of informational materials and provision of pre-
distribution packaging services under Part A.6 of the Project, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and technical services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B. 
 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and technical services shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
(c) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract for goods and technical services estimated 
to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the 
procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. International 
Shopping
Page  20
-
18 - 
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and technical services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for: (i) goods to be procured in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in Part B of this Section; and (ii) technical services 
consisting of: (A) reproduction of informational materials and provision of pre-
distribution packaging services under Part A.6 of the Project; and (B) provision of print 
and electronic media communications services under Part A.6 of the Project, estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first two (2) contracts for goods to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 1 of Part C above, regardless of 
the cost thereof; (ii) the first two (2) contracts for goods to be procured in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in paragraph 2 of Part C above, regardless of the cost 
thereof; and (iii) each contract for goods to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in paragraph 3 of Part C above, regardless of the cost thereof, the 
following procedures shall apply: 
 
Page  21
-
19 - 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; 
and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services and training shall be procured in accordance with: (i) the 
provisions of Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and (ii) the following provisions 
of this Section. 
 
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services and 
training shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services for legislative liaison and training under Parts A.1, A.3, 
A.4, A.5, B.1, B.3 and B.4 of the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Page  22
-
20 - 
 
Services for auditing, premises surveying and periodic taxpayer surveys, under, 
respectively, Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project, estimated to cost less than $800,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for specialized training, advisory services, analysis and planning under 
Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5, B.1, B.3 and B.4 of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services which qualify under any of the criterion set forth in the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 
equivalent, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for: (i) tasks that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines; and (ii) tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.4 
of the Consultant Guidelines may be selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to  prior 
approval of the Bank. 
 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures,  shall be 
furnished to the Bank, for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every three (3) months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
Page  23
-
21 - 
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms and 
training estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience and the terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  24
-
22 - 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
Section I.
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Development and Modernization Department
The Development and Modernization Department shall be responsible for 
administering and coordinating adequate arrangements for the overall implementation of 
the Project and the Program among the STS’s redesigned organizational structure, 
including aspects related to the carrying out of procurement of goods and the selection 
and employment of consultants’ services, preparation of disbursement applications of 
Loan proceeds, management and maintenance of Project accounts, and the preparation 
and submission of the reports referred to in paragraph 4 of Section II of this Schedule.  
To that end, the Borrower, through the STA, shall maintain the Development and 
Modernization Department throughout Project implementation under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank and with sufficient and suitable human, financial and technical 
resources.  
 
2. Oversight 
Panel
The Borrower shall establish, not later than March 31, 2004, and thereafter 
maintain throughout the Program, an Oversight Panel under terms of reference and with 
resources and a composition satisfactory to the Bank.  The said Panel shall consist of an 
independent high-level panel vested with responsibility for assessing the STS's progress 
in transforming its relationship to the rest of Borrower’s society to one based on 
voluntary compliance with the tax legislation coupled with a credible capacity to detect 
and properly resolve noncompliance, and shall comprise a small number of high profile, 
internationally recognized experts in fiscal administration and public management.  The 
Panel shall meet at least twice every Fiscal Year to carry out such assessment, making its 
findings public. 
 
3. Public 
Collegium
The Borrower shall maintain to the satisfaction of the Bank, throughout the 
Program, the Public Collegium as a consultative assembly of representatives of 
stakeholder associations in the Borrower’s territory, consisting of representatives of 
Ukrainian nongovernmental organizations concerned with taxes, commerce, and public 
administration reform.  The said Collegium shall meet at least on a semiannual basis and 
shall provide the STA with a consultative forum for advice and feedback on matters of 
tax administration.  
 
Page  25
-
23 - 
Section II.
Implementation Arrangements
1. Annual 
Work 
Program
The Borrower, through the STA, shall: (i) prepare and submit for the Bank’s 
comments and approval, not later than September 30 of each Fiscal Year, a draft annual 
work program for the following Fiscal Year including, 
inter alia
,
a
detailed description of 
planned activities for procurement of goods and technical services and selection and 
employment of consultants’ services and sources and uses of funds; and (ii) adopt and 
carry out the annual work program in the form and substance approved by the Bank.  
 
2. Operations 
Manual
The Borrower, through the STA, shall take all action required to ensure that the 
Operations Manual is applied and followed at all times in the implementation, monitoring 
and evaluation of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall ensure that the STA do not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operations Manual 
or any provision thereof. 
 
3. 
Training under the Study Tours
For the purposes of the training to be provided by the study tours under Parts 
A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5, A.6, B.3 and B.4 of the Project, the Borrower, through the STA, shall: 
 
(a) 
furnish to the Bank for its approval, the content of each such training, 
including an explanation on how such training is consistent and conducive
 
to the 
objectives of the Project and whether it offers the best price/quality ratio, as well as
 
the 
schedule for its implementation; 
 
(b) 
select the trainees in accordance with a transparent process and criteria 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(c) 
not later than December 1 of each year, exchange views with the Bank 
on the training to be carried out during the following calendar year; and 
 
(d) 
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the results of each training and the benefits to be derived 
therefrom. 
 
4. Progress 
Reports 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower, through the STA, shall, commencing on April 30, 2004 and 
thereafter, not later than January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 in each calendar 
year and until Project completion, prepare and furnish to the Bank a progress report, of 
Page  26
-
24 - 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, describing, in 
accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators, the progress achieved in the 
implementation of the Project during the preceding quarter of the calendar year.   
 
5. Mid-Term 
Review
The Borrower, through the STA, shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation 
Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the Program and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about September 30, 2005, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project and the Program during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the Program and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2005, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Page  27
-
25 - 
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $2,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $1,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Page  28
-
26 - 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the  
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
Page  29
-
27 - 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the  Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  30
-
28 - 
M:\BACKUP\UKRAINE\CONFORM\L4698.doc 
6/20/2003 12:21 PM
 
