                                  Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2546



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-46980)



                                    ON A

                                    LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 40.0 MILLION


                                   TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF UKRAINE

                                  FOR THE

          FIRST STATE TAX SERVICE MODERNIZATION PROJECT

                              December 18, 2012




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective October 14, 2012)

                                        Currency Unit =
                                      UAH 1.00 = US$ 0.12
                                      US$ 1.00 = UAH 8.33

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                       January - December

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL    Adjustable Program Loan                          LTO     Large Taxpayers Office
 CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                      M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
                                                                Ministry of Economic Development and
CPS    Country Partnership Strategy                     MOE
                                                                Trade
DMS    Document Management System                       MOF     Ministry of Finance
DPC    Data Processing Center                           NGO     Non-governmental Organization
EC     European Commission                              NPV     Net Present Value
FM     Financial Management                             O&M     Organization and Management
                                                                Organization for Economic Cooperation and
FY     Fiscal Year                                      OECD
                                                                Development
GDP    Gross Domestic Product                           OTA     US Treasury Office of Technical Assistance
GoU    Government of Ukraine                            PAD     Project Appraisal Document
HQ     Headquarters                                     PDO     Program Development Objectives
HR     Human Resources                                  PPF     Project Preparation Facility
       International Bank for Reconstruction and
IBRD                                                    STS     State Tax Service
       Development
ICB    International Competitive Bidding                STSMP   State Tax Service Modernization Program
       Implementation Completion and Results
ICR                                                     TB      Tax Block
       Report
       Information and Communication
ICT                                                     UAH     Ukraine Hryvnia
       Technologies
                                                                Ukrainian Federation of Professional
IMF    International Monetary Fund                      UFPAA
                                                                Accountants and Auditors
       Intra-European Organization of Tax
IOTA                                                    USD     United States Dollar
       Administration
IRR    Internal Rate of Return                        VAT        Value Added Tax
ISR    Implementation Status and Results Report       WB         World Bank
KPI    Key Performance Indicators                     WTO        World Trade Organization
                       Vice President:              Philippe H. Le Houerou
                       Country Director:            Qimiao Fan
                       Sector Manager:              William Dorotinsky
                       Project Team Leader:         Oleksiy Balabushko
                       ICR Team Leader:             Sebastian Eckardt




                                                   ii
                                              Republic of Ukraine
                                   State Tax Service Modernization Project 1
                                                 CONTENTS
Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................................. 15
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................................. 21
3. Assessment of Outcomes........................................................................................................... 27
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................................... 37
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ...................................................................... 38
6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................................ 40
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ........................... 42
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................................... 44
Annex 2. Outputs by Component .................................................................................................. 44
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis.................................................................................. 54
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............................. 59
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................................ 62
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................................... 63
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ...................................... 65
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................................ 70
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................................... 71
MAP




                                                                     iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                            State Tax Service
Country:                Ukraine                   Project Name:             Modernization Project
                                                                            (APL #1)
Project ID:             P057815                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-46980
ICR Date:               10/31/2012                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                       Borrower:                 UKRAINE
Original Total
                        USD 40.00M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 39.99M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 40.00M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
State Tax Service of Ukraine
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
U.S. Treasury

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/26/2001     Effectiveness:             12/31/2003          12/31/2003
Appraisal:             10/24/2002     Restructuring(s):                              03/06/2006
Approval:              06/05/2003     Mid-term Review:           12/31/2007          12/14/2007
                                      Closing:                   06/30/2008          06/29/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Substantial
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
                                                                            Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:
                                                                            Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:



                                                 iv
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                              Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                 Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     100                  100




Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                33
Tax policy and administration                                          67                   100

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                          At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Qimiao Fan                           Luca Barbone
Sector Manager:            William Leslie Dorotinsky            Cheryl W. Gray
Project Team Leader:       Oleksiy Balabushko                   Craig R. Neal
ICR Team Leader:           Sebastian Eckardt
ICR Primary Author:        Sebastian Eckardt
                           Carlos D. C. Ferreira
                           Elene Imnadze

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The two-phase State Tax Service Modernization Program (APL) seeks to establish a sustainable
state revenue system. This includes: (a) voluntary compliance with the Tax Legislation by
taxpayers and third party payers; (b) competent, honest, and equitable administration by the State
Tax Service; and (c) a growing and efficient enterprise sector.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
No change in the Project Development Objective was made during the restructuring process.


                                                   v
[Note: In the absence of a change in the project objectives and/or radical changes in project
activities, Board Approval was not sought. The restructuring was effected through an exchange
of letters between the Country Director and the Representative of the Borrower, the Acting
Minister of Finance.]

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target         Completion or
                                                documents)         Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Indicator of voluntary tax compliance, %
Value
quantitative or   54.54                     65.0                N/A            85.1
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2001                06/29/2012                         06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Indicator of costs for tax legislation compliance by taxpayers, %
Value
quantitative or   56.11                     65.0                N/A            55.1
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2001                06/29/2012                         06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Indicator of likelihood of detecting tax evasion and non-payments, %
Value
quantitative or   51.7                      60.0                N/A            58.6
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2001                06/29/2012                         06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Indicator of STS performance quality when administrating taxes and providing
Indicator 4 :
                  services to taxpayers, %
Value
quantitative or 33.56                       55.0                N/A            65.1
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                    06/29/2012                         06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                   vi
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                 approval                        Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
                A complete set of detailed modernization plans developed and formally adopted
Indicator 1 : by the Head of STA, by Q1 2004, but was revoked after change in government in
                2005.
                                                                              Mixed
                                                                              Achievement. A
                                                                              formal set of
                                                                              detailed plans were
                                                                              developed and
Value
                                           Not defined at      Not defined at formally adopted by
(quantitative   Not defined at appraisal.
                                           appraisal.          appraisal.     the Head of the STS
or Qualitative)
                                                                              in late 2003, but
                                                                              revoked in
                                                                              September 2005
                                                                              after a change in
                                                                              Government.
Date achieved                                                                 06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                An up-to-date, accurate, and transparent project monitoring and control
Indicator 2 :
                maintained throughout project period.
                                                                              Achieved. The
                                                                              Modernization
                                                                              Department
                                                                              maintained up-to-
Value                                                                         date, accurate, and
                                           Not defined at      Not defined at
(quantitative   Not defined at appraisal.                                     transparent project
                                           appraisal.          appraisal.
or Qualitative)                                                               records during the
                                                                              project period, and
                                                                              reported project
                                                                              progress as
                                                                              required.
Date achieved                                                                 06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                A strengthened HQ and a consolidated organizational structure (e.g., 10 super-
Indicator 3 :
                regional and 120 inter-district offices + branches), EOY 2006.
                                                                              Not Achieved. The
Value                                                                         STS has not been
                                           Not defined at      Not defined at
(quantitative   Not defined at appraisal.                                     able to achieve this
                                           appraisal.          appraisal.
or Qualitative)                                                               target, as
                                                                              Government


                                               vii
                                                                              priorities with
                                                                              regard to
                                                                              organizational
                                                                              consolidation
                                                                              changed.
Date achieved                                                                 06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                A contemporary human resource management concept developed and under
Indicator 4 :   implementation, via re-organized and properly staff and properly trained HR
                Department, by EOY 2006.
                                                                              Mixed
                                                                              Achievement. A
                                                                              contemporary
                                                                              human resource
Value                                                                         management
                                           Not defined at      Not defined at
(quantitative   Not defined at appraisal.                                     concept was
                                           appraisal.          appraisal.
or Qualitative)                                                               developed before
                                                                              project
                                                                              restructuring, but
                                                                              not formally
                                                                              adopted.
Date achieved                                                                 06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Approximately 350 executive and 2400 middle managers trained in and
Indicator 5 :
                operating according to contemporary management practices, by EOY 2006.
                                                                              Mixed
                                                                              Achievement.
                                                                              Significant training
                                                                              was delivered in
                                                                              2006.
                                                                              Contemporary
Value
                                           Not defined at      Not defined at management
(quantitative   Not defined at appraisal.
                                           appraisal.          appraisal.     practices, such as
or Qualitative)
                                                                              strategic
                                                                              management were
                                                                              introduced in
                                                                              selected units, for
                                                                              example at the
                                                                              LTO.
Date achieved                                                                 06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Tax policy and legislation prepared in a well-informed and coordinated fashion
Indicator 6 :
                among the MOF, MOE, Verkhovna Rada, the STA, and other key fiscal actors,

                                               viii
                by EOY 2006.
                                                                              Achieved. The new
                                                                              tax code effective
                                                                              as of January 2011
                                                                              was developed in a
Value                                                                         well-coordinated
                                          Not defined at       Not defined at
(quantitative   Not defined at appraisal.                                     fashion, including
                                          appraisal.           appraisal.
or Qualitative)                                                               participation of the
                                                                              private sector.
                                                                              Collaboration in
                                                                              legislation matters
                                                                              is now the norm.
Date achieved                                                                 06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Well targeted and well informed communications between the STA and key
Indicator 7 :
                public and private stakeholders in Ukraine, by EOY 2006.
                                                                                Achieved. A
                                                                                communications
                                                                                campaign was
                                                                                completed in 2007
Value
                                           Not defined at       Not defined at which delivered
(quantitative   Not defined at appraisal.
                                           appraisal.           appraisal.      informational
or Qualitative)
                                                                                materials for
                                                                                internal and
                                                                                external
                                                                                stakeholders.
Date achieved                                                                   06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                A proven prototype of modernized core tax administration operations (i.e.
Indicator 8 : registration, accounting, declaration processing, and document management, plus
                support for taxpayer services, audit, collections, appeals) by EOY 2007.
                                                                                Achieved. The
                                                                                prototype Tax
                                                                                Block was
Value
                                           Not defined at       Not defined at developed, tested
(quantitative   Not defined at appraisal.
                                           appraisal.           appraisal.      and approved by
or Qualitative)
                                                                                the end-June 2011,
                                                                                with the prescribed
                                                                                functionality.
Date achieved                                                                   06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Modern Call-center operational servicing taxpayers and tax officials on a
Indicator 9 :
                nationwide basis by EOY 2007.

                                                ix
                                                                            Achieved. The Call
                                                                            Center was
                                                                            developed, tested,
                                                                            and placed in
                                                                            operation in 2008.
Value
                                          Not defined at     Not defined at It is continuously
(quantitative   Not defined at appraisal.
                                          appraisal.         appraisal.     improving its
or Qualitative)
                                                                            operations, adding
                                                                            channels and
                                                                            services to both
                                                                            taxpayers and tax
                                                                            officials.
Date achieved                                                               06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Strengthened compliance function (including audit and collection functions) by
Indicator 10 :
                EOY 2007.
                                                                            Achieved. The
                                                                            audit function has
Value
                                          Not defined at     Not defined at made very
(quantitative   Not defined at appraisal.
                                          appraisal.         appraisal.     substantial gains in
or Qualitative)
                                                                            efficiency and
                                                                            effectiveness.
Date achieved                                                               06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 11 : Eight fully equipped and operational large taxpayer offices by EOY 2007.
                                                                            Achieved. Large
                                                                            Taxpayer Offices
                                                                            have been
                                                                            consolidated into a
                                                                            single LTO, with
Value
                                          Not defined at     Not defined at branches where
(quantitative   Not defined at appraisal.
                                          appraisal.         appraisal.     needed. The LTO is
or Qualitative)
                                                                            well equipped and
                                                                            efficient, managing
                                                                            about 60% of the
                                                                            revenue with about
                                                                            3% of STS staff.
Date achieved                                                               06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                               x
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
        Date ISR
No.                            DO                       IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1    11/17/2003         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    12/03/2003         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.00
  3    04/20/2004         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.63
  4    09/26/2004         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     1.16
  5    01/07/2005         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     1.34
  6    06/15/2005        Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                    1.57
  7    03/29/2006         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     1.57
  8    10/05/2006         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     1.57
  9    11/28/2007         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   14.65
 10    03/13/2008         Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            15.21
 11    03/05/2009         Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            15.79
 12    02/17/2010         Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            17.28
 13    02/19/2011         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   19.43
 14    11/22/2011         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   20.76
 15    06/10/2012     Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                   34.65


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The Project was formally
                                                     restructured in March 2006 to
                                                     reflect the priorities of the new
                                                     Government and to address
                                                     lagging implementation
                                                     progress. During restructuring
                                                     the project objectives and
                                                     associated outcome indicators
                                                     were reconfirmed, but several
 03/06/2006       N       U      U            1.57   activities under the Project were
                                                     changed. First, the restructuring
                                                     recognized the changed
                                                     Government position regarding
                                                     the downsizing of the STS
                                                     territorial network and
                                                     substantially reduced Project
                                                     support in this area. Second, the
                                                     Project shifted resources away
                                                     from technical assistance and

                                            xi
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     consulting services, reflecting
                                                     the fact that the STS was able to
                                                     mobilize support from other
                                                     development partners (US
                                                     Treasury, IMF). The project
                                                     design called for 46% of the
                                                     investment to be in consulting
                                                     activities, but at project
                                                     completion only 2.5% of actual
                                                     disbursements corresponded to
                                                     consulting activities. Third,
                                                     savings from technical
                                                     assistance were reallocated to
                                                     finance expanded IT
                                                     investments, including “quick-
                                                     win? investments in
                                                     workstations across the STS. In
                                                     addition, while the project
                                                     intended to finance prototyping
                                                     of the tax information system,
                                                     reallocation allowed delivery of
                                                     information technology
                                                     infrastructure necessary for
                                                     nationwide roll-out.




                                         xii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          xiii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      At appraisal, Ukraine’s transition from a planned economy to a market-based
economy remained unfinished, despite the decade that had passed since its independence.
Both, the productive sector and state agencies relied on a variety of old-style administrative
mechanisms to obtain and redirect revenues. The State Tax Service (STS), established in 1996 as
a specialized executive agency, had made some progress by 2003 in building various technical
capacities through staff training, some basic information tools and several strengthened
procedures. Besides, efforts were made to rationalize and streamline its structures. The STS
collected a fairly conventional profile of taxes: (i) Personal and Corporate income tax plus VAT
together accounted for about 70 percentage of revenues actually collected; (ii) excise and natural
resource royalties were important and fairly stable share of revenues at about 12 percent; (iii) the
single tax for small-scale enterprises and individual entrepreneurs was a rapidly growing tax,
albeit only about 3 percent of total revenues collected in 2001; (iv) local taxes and receipts from
fines and sanctions were small and stable (in nominal terms) at about 2 percent; (v) a varied and
changing mix of other taxes (import-export duties, specialized agricultural levies), earmarked
state funds (e.g., Chernobyl Fund, State Innovation Fund), and non-tax revenues (e.g.,
privatization receipts, rental income, gas transit fees, etc.,) were an important, volatile, but
declining source of revenues.

2.      The STS struggled with declining revenue performance, inefficient tax
administration and a high compliance burden on the private sector. As a share of GDP
revenues collected had fallen steadily from 1996 through 2001, from 26 percent to 18 percent of
GDP. Tax arrears and VAT refunds were major problems, with arrears accounting for 3 percent
of GDP in 2001. The administration of taxes in Ukraine was marked by inefficiencies,
inaccuracies, and unevenness, as well as corrupt practices. The continuing financial problems in
privileged (predominantly state owned) enterprise sector were being allowed to propagate into the
revenue performance of the STS, in turn eroding the fiscal position of the Government. These
problems derived from a number of sources, both internal and external, such as increasingly
unwieldy legislative context, exemptions, tax amnesties, absence of voluntary compliance culture,
widespread dependence on administrative procedures, and substantial tolerance of extra-legal
practices within state and private entities.

3.      The legal and regulatory context was inadequate for efficient and effective
administration of taxes in Ukraine. The number of related laws (339) and regulatory decisions
(695) indicated a disjointed and ad hoc approach to revenue legislation. They resulted in a
revenue system that was plagued by problems in interpretation and consistency. The ambiguities,
contradictions, and unpredictability of the system presented great difficulties for the STA as an
administrator, as well as for taxpayers and other third-party payers in compliance. This situation
was exacerbated by numerous privileges, exemptions, and tax free zones, with significant revenue
implications. A Tax Code still awaited its third reading in 2002 (since its first reading in July
2000) and its further consideration was temporarily set aside by the new strategy of the
government. However, in 2002-2003 Ukrainian authorities somewhat succeeded in stabilizing the
tax base which led to corresponding improvements in revenue performance.

4.     Weaknesses in the STS’s internal capacity were also assessed as an important source
of problems in tax administration. Skills, incentive structures, operational and management



                                                 15
practices, information system tools, internal controls were in need of significant improvements to
raise STS efficiency and effectiveness as well as ease the compliance costs for taxpayers.
Notwithstanding somewhat lessened fiscal pressures by 2001, a high level of pressure from the
expenditure side of the state forced the STS to continually focus on meeting detailed and
disaggregated targets. This perpetuated a reactive, short-term management focus by the STS and
impeded efforts at long-term administrative reform, in addition to poisoning taxpayers’ relations.
At the national, regional and local levels, appropriately balanced governance mechanisms and
feedback channels were needed to permit the wide range of public and private perspectives to be
reconciled in the tax system (i.e., tax law and administration).

5.       In response to the above challenges, the Government launched a modernization
program aimed at aligning the STS performance with the requirements of an evolving
market economy. The agency’s appeal to the public through the statement “On the Strategy of
Modernization of the State tax Service? emphasized the need for joint effort by the government,
society at large, state institutions, and international financial organizations in support of reform
initiative that would lead to establishing tax service that would favor country’s economic growth
and contribute to attraction of investments, development of entrepreneurial sector, and
sustainability of tax revenues to the national budget. With technical assistance from the US
Treasury, the STS embarked on elaboration of a strategy for human resource management and
capacity building that was viewed an integral and prominent part of the Modernization Program.
The Government of Ukraine approached the Bank for assistance with the formulation and
financing of a long-term and comprehensive modernization program for the STS. The Cabinet
Regulation of September 2000 established a Modernization Department under the STS tasked
with planning, overseeing and coordinating the various reform efforts in tax administration
supported both by the Government as well as external partners.

6.       The project was fully consistent with the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS). The CAS for Ukraine for 2000-2003 specified a “two-legged? strategy of (a) supporting
civil society in its demand for better government, and (b) supporting opportunities to strengthen
institutions and foster sustainable development. The State Tax Service Modernization Program
(STSMP) preparation and design process was shaped by the above two track approach. In line
with the first pillar, two new public accountability bodies were established as part of the STAMP
preparation. The first one - a Public Collegium, served as a consultative forum to the STS,
comprised representatives of non-governmental organization concerned with tax, commerce, and
public administration, and aimed at strengthening the voice of the many stakeholders in tax
administration. The second body was the Oversight Panel - an independent body comprised of a
small number of high profile, internationally recognized experts charged with assessing the
progress of the STS towards an effective tax administration on the basis of voluntary compliance
by taxpayers to the tax legislation. In line with the second pillar of the CAS, the STSMP
envisaged support to complete overhaul of the STS organizational structure, management
arrangements, and operations.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

7.    The objective of the two-phase State Tax Service Modernization Program (APL) was
to establish a sustainable state revenue system. Specifically, this pertained to: (a) voluntary
compliance with the Tax Legislation by taxpayers and third party payers; (b) competent, honest,
and equitable administration by the State Tax Service; and (c) a growing and efficient enterprise
sector.




                                                 16
8.    Phase 1 of the program aimed at establishing sound organizational and operational
foundations for the State Tax Service by (a) modernizing business process and organizational
designs; (b) consolidating the structure and making it function-based; (c) introducing a proven
prototype of modernized taxpayer registration, tax accounting, declaration processing, and
document management function; (d) strengthening capacities in priority areas of human resource
management, senior and middle management, legislative and statistical analysis, audit, collection,
and large taxpayer offices; and (e) enhancing public accountability mechanism.

9.   To track to progress towards achieving the above development objective, a set of
outcome indicators was agreed with STS. The following outcome indicators were included in
PAD Results Framework:

a. Improvement in an indicator of voluntary compliance from a 2001 baseline of 54.54 to 65.0
   by the end of Phase 1 to 80.0 by the end of Phase 2;
b. Improvement in an indicator of the cost of voluntary compliance from a 2001 baseline of
   56.11 to 65 by the end of Phase 1 to 75 by the end of Phase 2;
c. Improvement in an indicator of likelihood of detection of non-compliance from a 2001
   baseline of 51.70 to 60 by the end of Phase 1 to 75 by the end of Phase 2;
d. Improvement in an indicator of the quality of integrity of the STS administration from a 2001
   baseline of 34.56 to 55 by the end of Phase 1 to 80 by the end of Phase 2.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

10. The Project was restructured in 2006 but no change in the Project Development
Objective and associated outcome indicators was made during the restructuring process;
hence Board Approval was not sought. The restructuring was affected through an exchange of
the restructuring letter from the Country Director, countersigned by the Representative of the
Borrower, the Acting Minister of Finance on March 6, 2006.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

11.     At appraisal, the beneficiaries expected to benefit from the project interventions was
identified as follows:

a. The general public that would benefit from fiscal and macro-economic stability, including the
   resultant economic growth and the anti-poverty effects of low inflation;

b. The taxpayers that would benefit from reduced compliance cost and reduced
   misadministration and corruption;

c. Honest taxpayers that would benefit from greater client orientation and from a reduction in
   the tax burden of meeting the fiscal shortfall created by non-compliance;

d. Honest tax officers that would benefit from improvements in the internal integrity of the STS.

The restructuring of the project did not lead to any substantive changes in the type of the
population expected to benefit from the project outcomes.




                                                17
1.5 Original Components

12.     At appraisal, the Project comprised two main components with ten sub-components.

Component A1: Organization and Management (O&M) Modernization (estimated cost at
appraisal USD 59.5 million) combined the following six sub-components:

A1.1 Strategic Project Management (estimated total cost of USD 13.3 million) aimed at building
the STS capacity to implement major strategic projects. It incorporated most of the analysis,
planning, substantive management and administration of the STSMP. The sub-component
comprised two parts. The first part - Design, Planning and Testing – meant to support the initiated
agenda of analysis, detailed design and testing activities for the STSMP. Respective initiatives
corresponded to the formal analytical methods adopted by the STS for the project and included
development and maintenance of the STS’s strategic plan, high level action plan, functional
organization document, data models, concept of operations document (ConOps), top-level
integrated requirements document, integrated system architecture document, detailed action plan,
legislative and regulatory change plan, and development and testing laboratory for procedures
and software. The second part – Project Management - intended to support the STS capacity to
manage the STSMP. It was designed to provide technical assistance, training, tools and other
resources to build capacity in the formal methods for project management, covering such project
management processes as program management, configuration management, quality assurance,
acquisition, integration, testing and evaluation, implementation, data administration, security
planning, and maintenance.

A1.2 Organization Consolidation (estimated total cost of USD 39.4 million) sub-component
aimed at addressing the consolidation of the STS’s organizational structure. The process of
organization consolidation was expected to flow from the organizational and business process
developed under the Strategic Project Management (A1.1.) sub-component described above. The
Organizational Consolidation sub-component constituted several parts. Consolidation planning
and management was intended for supporting access to international experience in major
organizational restructuring, piloting the packages of organizational, procedural and resource
changes, and managing the consolidation on day-to-day basis. The management and staff
consolidation parts were directed to addressing the need to restructure management and staff
profiles as well as skills so that they correspond to the new organizational structure and business
processes. The premises restructuring part provided for selectively expanding and reconfiguring
offices at the middle tier of the organization while closing and shrinking offices at the lower
levels. The local tax administration part was included to support an analysis of the prospects for
future administration of local taxes.

A1.3 Human Resource Management (estimated total cost of USD 0.3 million) focused on priority
tactical needs in the area of human resource management. The work under the sub-component
was considered as a prelude to strategic investments in this field. The sub-component aimed at
responding to clear and pressing needs identified by the STS, such as support with the human
resources planning dimensions (i.e. staff profiles, job descriptions, selection criteria, etc.), and
technical assistance to strengthen HR Management Department at the STS headquarters as well
as line level HR management functions. The sub-component activities were designed to build on
the TA provided by USAID and US Treasury.

A1.4 Management Capacity Building (estimated total cost of USD 1.4 million) sought to address
priority needs in the area of executive and middle management. These included preparation of the
STS’s respective management teams for the sweeping changes ahead under the strategic stream


                                                 18
of the STSMP, and formal training on contemporary management practices. This sub-component
also built on the assistance provided by USAID and US Treasury as well as followed the initial
training financed under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF).

A1.5 Legislative and Statistical Analysis (estimated total cost of USD 1.4 million) aimed at
responding to the respective priority needs through supporting capacity building in legislative
analysis, regulatory drafting, revenue forecasting, tax modeling, statistical analysis, and
information interchange. The sub-component envisaged support to all the key actors through a
jointly-developed unified capacity building plan, as well as specifically to the STS in
strengthening its ability to move data from the lower (transaction) levels of the organization
upwards in form of aggregated statistical data.

A1.6 Stakeholders Relations (estimated total cost of USD 3.8 million) envisaged interventions to
support the management of the STS’s relations with the external and internal stakeholders. These
included an active PR program to explain tax procedures, the STS operations, taxpayer and the
STS obligations, and to promote a culture of voluntary compliance to the tax legislation. The sub-
component was designed to also support strengthening and extending the function of the STS’s
office in charge of monitoring public, press and Verkhovna Rada on tax related issues, including
a more formal analysis and organization of the procedures employed as well as development and
distribution of informational materials. In addition, the sub-component provided resources to
support the Oversight Panel and Public Collegium.

Component A2: Operations Modernization (estimated cost at appraisal USD 25.7 million)
combined the following four sub-components:

A2.1 Prototype Core Tax Administration Operation (estimated total cost of USD 24.0 million)
was designed to cover the tax registration, tax accounting, declaration processing, document
management, as well as support for client services, audit, and collections. The sub-component
was planned around two parts: (i) prototype support to provide additional planning and
management resources needed for the prototype of the modernized core tax administration
functions, including site selection, specialized procurement support and logistics to oversee the
implementation, troubleshooting and evaluation of the prototype; and (ii) prototype
implementation to finance development of a prototype of modernized business processes in the
“core’ areas if tax administration. The implementation was envisaged through a small number of
major contracts, namely Tax Block Contract, Document Management Contract, and Information
and Communication Technology Infrastructure Contract.

A2.2 Customer Service Call Center (estimated total cost of USD 1.1 million) intended to establish
a centrally managed and operated referral and information source for taxpayers. This was to be
implemented in tandem with the STS’s internal Help Desk call facilities supporting the STS staff
on operational and technological matters.

A2.3 Compliance Strengthening (estimated total cost of USD 0.4 million) planned to support
priority tactical initiatives in the area of audit and collection. The sub-component envisaged
technical assistance to help the main departments of the STS in formulating and strengthening
their plans in the above areas.

A2.4 Large Taxpayers Office Operational Support (estimated total cost of USD 0.2 million) was
designed as a priority tactical initiative building on the STS’s program to establish and equip
offices to administer the large taxpayers. The sub-component envisaged technical assistance to
the LTO main department in formulating and strengthening its respective plans.


                                                19
1.6 Revised Components

13.     The project components were adjusted at restructuring to meet the new
Government’s priorities, add a new focus on short-term results, and eliminate investments
in Consulting Services. The following component structure of 7 main components was
introduced:

Project Implementation Management and Public Accountability (USD 9.45 million) envisaged
technical assistance to the STS as needed to strengthen project implementation, as well as support
to monitoring the tax service Key Performance Indicators (KPI) through the system of taxpayers’
annual independent surveys. The latter were expected to generate stakeholders’ feedback about
qualitative and quantitative progress in tax administration attributable to the Project
implementation. The component also covered the activities of the Oversight Panel and Public
Collegium.

Short-term Initiatives to Improve Tax Administration Processes (USD 36.47 million) included
interventions supporting improvement of VAT administration, upgrade of tax return processing
through introduction of electronic filing of returns, elaboration of a concept on risk-based
selection of tax audit case, establishment of inter-agency information exchange system,
development and implementation of a model for establishing macroeconomic indicators’ impact
of tax revenues information, and provision of infrastructure for tax return processing at Rayon
Level.

Initiatives to Improve Tax Legislation (no IBRD financing sought) aimed at promoting the
simplification of the country’s tax legislation and its adherence to the requirements of the EC and
WTO Agreements. The activities under the component also included bridging the gaps in the
current legal framework and thus providing necessary legal support to the STS business process
modernization.

Taxpayers Services (USD 10.13 million) component envisaged establishment of a Call Center
based on modern information and communication technologies and equipped with the automated
systems which would allow for handling a large number of calls coming from different sources
(telephone, fax, post, Internet) and providing taxpayers with free-of-charge services 24 hours/day.
The component’s objective was to improve the quality of observing tax requirements, ensure full
awareness of tax legislative changes, address the problem lax interpretation of legal provisions,
and contribute to reduction of administrative costs.

Integrated Information System (USD 19.67 million) aimed at encouraging the proper information
exchange with other government authorities and usage of third persons’ information for
increasing the level of impartiality and efficiency of making management decisions. This
component included establishment of the STS’s integrated systems architecture and corporate
network for the STSs, the system of information exchange with ministries and agencies, the
automated document management system with the function of case maintenance in courts,
comprehensive information protection system, and the system of decision-making support
(corporate data warehouse, analytical system, departmental reporting system).

Structure and Functional Reform of Tax Administration (USD 0.83 million) provided for
reviewing and designing the comprehensive model of the organization structure, developing
detailed organization structure that will describe all functions and procedures and all the tax
offices’ units according to levels, developing standards of staff number for performing the tax
offices’ functions, based on scientifically calculated and legislatively established time standards


                                                20
for fulfilling operations. It was expected to shift from the existing mixed organization system of
tax offices (by types of taxes, taxpayers’ categories, and functions) to a function-based
organization structure.

Training of the STS Staff (USD 0.82 million) aimed at supporting the training of the middle and
top level managers on modern methods of human resource management, Project administration
and management issues, and on practical tasks of designing analytical and information systems,
and implementing the methodology of evaluating the management, development and
implementation processes.

1.7 Other significant changes

14.      Throughout of the lifetime of the project, its implementation period was extended
twice for total of four years. Per request from the Government (dated respectively February 18,
2005 and December 26, 2008) the Loan Agreement was amended first time on March 1, 2006
establishing June 30, 2010 as the Closing Date and again on March 25, 2009, establishing June
29, 2012 and the Closing Date.

15.      In addition, the government co-financing reflected in Project costs was substantially
reduced. Overall, project costs for the APL1 were reduced from US$ 85.6 Million at appraisal to
US$ 65.6 Million at restructuring, even so the Government continued to finance substantial
recurrent costs (including the operating costs of the Modernization Department) and selected
investments (for example works related to the upgrade of server rooms). In addition, as part of the
project restructuring in March 2006, the disbursement arrangements were simplified with a single
disbursement category covering all disbursement categories, in effect reducing the initial
allocation for consulting services.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

16.     The initial Project design –a ten year, two-phase APL- responded to a Government
request for assistance in the design and financing of a long term and comprehensive
modernization program for the STS. After some years of incremental progress across several
areas of the tax administration, in 2001/02 the Government developed and adopted plans for a
reform program to comprehensively address the organizational, operational and management
constraints to enhanced revenue performance and to develop a modern tax administration, based
on the principles of voluntary compliance and risk based compliance management. Reflecting the
Government’s priorities, the Project was designed as a ten year APL with two phases, aimed at a
complete overhaul of the STS to achieve a modern and sustainable revenue administration
system. The first phase of the APL (which is the subject of this ICR) was designed to support: i)
reorganization of the STS along functional lines and consolidation of the extensive territorial
office network, ii) reengineering of business processes, iii) development of pilot IT systems to
support the automation of core business processes (registration, tax accounting, declarations
processing, and document management), and iv) strengthening of human capacities across both
management and operational services of the STS. The first phase of the APL was initially planned
to be completed in June 2008, 4.5 years after expected effectiveness.

17.    The technical design of the Project was informed by substantial preparatory and
diagnostic work undertaken by the STS with support by the Bank and other development


                                                21
partners. The Project built on modernization initiatives that had been ongoing for several years
with support by the World Bank (through PHRD grant financed Technical Assistance and under a
Programmatic Adjustment Loan), IMF, the US Treasury and the Dutch Government, including in
the areas of functional reorganization, risk based audit, and establishment of large tax payer
office. Due to these existing engagements with the STS, there was a solid knowledge base to
draw on when the Project was designed. A Diagnostic and Descriptive Note, which was prepared
by the World Bank in August 2002, summarized the state of play and remaining challenges in
regards to tax administration reforms in Ukraine at the time of preparation. The Project design
directly addressed the key constraints to better performance of the STS identified in the
Diagnostic Note, including the need for organizational restructuring, business process
modernization, human capacity development and improvements of the IT environment. With the
support of US treasury advisors the STS had also prepared a detailed Project Implementation Plan
and Design Documents for the envisaged modernization and automation of core business
processes which in principle provided the basis for major ICT investment to be procured under
the Project.

18.      The Project design adopted several lessons learnt from the implementation of tax
administration reforms. Given the long term nature of the envisaged modernization program, a
phased approach anchored in an APL with two phases with clear milestones to track progressive
reform implementation was adopted. Special efforts were made to secure and sustain high
political support and to strengthen accountability for achievement of intended Project objectives.
This included requirements to formally endorse and publicize GoU and STS mission statements
for tax administration reform as well as the establishment of an oversight panel with international
experts and Public Collegium with private sector representatives to ensure oversight from and
accountability to external stakeholders. In terms of implementation arrangements, the STS
established a dedicated Modernization Department which was structurally embedded in the STS
and staffed with about 140 professional and support staff to ensure adequate and consistent
Project Management and Implementation support to the Project and the broader modernization
effort.

19.      While the project design was technically sound, it was ambitious and complex, and
consequently made implementation challenging. The initial project development objective set
an ambitious target of achieving a sustainable state revenue system based on voluntary
compliance by tax payers, competent, honest and equitable administration by the STS and a
growing and efficient enterprise sector. The PDO was very broad, and especially the stated
objective of a growing and efficient enterprise sector -while arguably indirectly affected by
Project interventions through an improved tax environment and business climate- was
insufficiently linked to the activities proposed under the Project. As described in detail above, the
initial Project design comprised two main components with ten sub-components. In addition to
including several technically challenging sub-components, including complex investments in ICT
systems and infrastructure modernization, the Project also envisaged major institutional reforms,
including reorganization and downsizing of the territorial STS network which required substantial
change management capacities and consistent political support.

20.      The risk analysis in the Project document adequately recognized the substantial
risks entailed in the Project. The overall implementation risk was rated as substantial at the time
of appraisal. The project document identified several technical, capacity and political risks that
could impair progress towards achieving the intended PDO. These include the uncertainties in the
political support for the project, especially in case of change in government, capacity of the STS
to attract and retain the qualified staff, needed to manage the planned IT investments, potential
resistance of STS staff to genuine improvements in business processes and reorganization and


                                                 22
possible discontinuities in project management staff. While presenting a number of mitigation
measures to reduce the overall risk profile of the Project, the project document gives a realistic
assessment of the limits to which major risks could be effectively mitigated: “...there is a real
limit to the effectiveness of external mechanisms to lock-in political commitment especially over
the long term, and especially in a fluid and delicate political environment like Ukraine.? (See
STSMP PAD, p. 27)

21.      Overall the quality at entry was satisfactory from a technical perspective, but it was
insufficiently calibrated to the challenging operating environment and low initial
implementation capacities. The Project was well aligned to the Borrower’s needs and based on
sound analysis of the main impediments to improved tax administration practices at the time of
preparation. But it assumed a high degree of implementation readiness and capacity of the STS to
absorb a large amount of technically challenging outputs and difficult institutional changes in a
relatively short period of time (although the risk analysis clearly reflected the substantial
uncertainties that existed in this regard at the time of appraisal). In addition, the PDO was overly
ambitious and the result framework was weak, relying largely on perception based indicators that
had only a weak correlation with activities financed under the Project.

2.2 Implementation

22.     Implementation of the Project (APL1) took eight and one-half years – four years
longer than originally planned. The Project became effective on December 31 2003 and was
closed on June 29, 2012, after two extensions and a restructuring of project activities formalized
and completed in mid-2006. Project implementation required significant efforts by the
Modernization Department, the Bank and other development partners. Implementation was slow
between 2004 and mid-2006, but picked up after the restructuring and then accelerated over the
past few years – when major procurement packages were successfully contracted and
implemented. At the time of restructuring -two years into implementation- disbursement of Bank
financing stood at only 3.9 percent (Q42006). By the time of the writing of this report,
disbursement had increased to more than 99 percent, and many (but not all) of the originally
envisaged outputs had been delivered (albeit with significant delays).

23.      Despite significant delays in procurements under the Project, progress ratings were
rated moderately satisfactory and satisfactory throughout most of the implementation
period. Both implementation progress and progress towards PDO achievement was rated
satisfactory or moderately satisfactory in 14 of the 15 ISRs. Both indicators were downgraded to
unsatisfactory in June 2005 ISR, triggering the restructuring which was completed in 2006.

24.      Implementation progress lagged substantially during the first two years of
implementation, as many of the risks identified in the project document materialized,
despite efforts to mitigate them. Implementation progress during the first years up to the
restructuring was adversely affected by several factors both external and internal to the Project:

a. Low initial implementation capacity: While the STS had established a dedicated
   Modernization Department in 2000 to support implementation of the Project, the department
   was new and initially had little experience and limited capacities in institutional change
   management and project management (especially of Bank financed operations). This resulted
   in substantial delays in the implementation of key activities, supported by the Project.

 b. Procurement delays: Procurement activities related to several major packages were delayed
    despite the extensive preparatory work that had been completed with assistance of the US


                                                 23
     Treasury Resident Advisor prior to effectiveness. Most importantly, this pertained to three
     key ICT procurements which together constituted the financially largest share of Bank
     financing: i) The Tax Block (TB) Procurement (Automated Application System covering
     Registration of Taxpayers, Payment Records, Declarations Processing, and Audit), ii)
     Document Management System (DMS) and iii) IT Infrastructure Investments to support the
     introduction of the TB and DMS. Especially, the critical, but complex procurement of the
     tax block system took three separate attempts and about 6 years before the contract was
     eventually awarded. The first attempt was launched as a two stage bidding process in March
     2004, but then cancelled in November 2005 in view of changed Government priorities
     (discussed further below). The second attempt with revised bidding documents was launched
     shortly after restructuring in May 2006 –again as a two stage process. It once again
     culminated in cancellation in September 2008, as the only bid received during second stage
     was rejected (mainly because there were technical deficiencies and the cost substantially
     exceeded the initial estimate). A third attempt -this time a one stage process- was launched
     in October 2008 and eventually completed in April 2010. The DMS procurement -which
     was technically dependent on the Tax Block - also took more than two years until the
     contract was awarded in September 2010. A delay in the Bank’s no objection of the bidding
     documents contributed to the slow procurement of the DMS.

c. Frequent changes in STS leadership and project management: During preparation and
   the 8.5 years of implementation of the Project, the STS was headed by no less than 10
   different chairmen, while the Head of the Modernization Department also changed 9 times.
   Due to these frequent changes in leadership at both the institutional and Project level, Project
   oversight was inconsistent and suffered from a lack of political and institutional support that
   would have been critical to achieving progress, especially in difficult areas, such the
   envisaged reorganization. Implementation progress accelerated notably between 2008-2010-
   a period marked by continuity in the management of the Modernization Department.

d. Changes in Government Priorities: While consecutive Governments of different political
   persuasions have supported the overall objective of the Project and tax administration reforms
   more broadly, priorities shifted with regard to individual components. Most importantly,
   following the election of the Orange Revolution Government in 2005, the intended
   reorganization and consolidation of the STS territorial network was put on hold.
   Consolidation plans that had been prepared and approved in 2004 were revoked after a
   change in STS management. The Project restructuring in 2006 (described in more detail
   below) reflected this change in Government priorities in the Project design and removed the
   specific target for consolidation from the loan agreement. As a result, the intended
   organizational restructuring and consolidation did not occur, although such consolidation is
   fundamental for genuine improvements in tax administration.

e. Fiscal Pressures: Fiscal pressures continue to drive revenue collection as an overarching
   business objective of the STS. Especially, in the current difficult macro-economic
   environment, the STS continues to be under pressure to deliver on revenue targets. According
   to business representatives this has undermined the stated objective and efforts to change the
   orientation of the STS towards a modern tax administration that facilitates voluntary
   compliance by tax payers.

25.     The Project was formally restructured in March 2006 to reflect the priorities of the
new Government and to address lagging implementation progress. The restructuring process
took almost one year from mid 2005 to March 2006. During restructuring the project objectives
and associated outcome indicators were reconfirmed, but several activities under the Project were


                                                24
changed. First, the restructuring recognized the changed Government position regarding the
downsizing of the STS territorial network and substantially reduced Project support in this area.
Second, the Project shifted resources away from technical assistance and consulting services,
reflecting the fact that the STS was able to mobilize support from other development partners (US
Treasury, IMF). The project design called for 46% of the investment to be in consulting activities,
but at project completion only 2.5% of actual disbursements corresponded to consulting activities.
Third, savings from technical assistance were reallocated to finance expanded IT investments,
including “quick-win? investments in workstations across the STS. In addition, while the project
intended to finance prototyping of the tax information system, reallocation allowed delivery of
information technology infrastructure necessary for countrywide deployment of the system, a
quite significant achievement. Fourth, the component structure was simplified, unpacking the
previous ten sub-components into seven major components. The restructuring also extended the
implementation period by two years extending the completion date for Phase 1 to December 31,
2009. Within the Bank, the formal restructuring in March, 2006 was preceded by an internal
Quality Enhancement Review convened by the ECSPE management on December 21, 2005 to
review the package of the proposed revised design for the project and the corresponding action
and procurement plans. The review concluded that the proposed restructuring of the project was
technically coherent and generally consistent with the goals of the project.

26.      Implementation accelerated after restructuring, but much of the investment only
took place during the last three years of the Project life. After restructuring, the project
achieved a marked improvement in the pace of implementation, which was slowed only by the
difficulties in procuring the new Tax Information System that only succeeded in the third
procurement attempt. Major activities, including procurement of workstations and ITC
equipment (“quick-wins?) and the establishment of the call center took place shortly after
restructuring. Implementation further accelerated during 2008-2011, due to more consistent and
continuous attention and support from STS leadership and continues project management on part
of the modernization department. The three major Bank financed contracts, the Tax Block, the
Document Management and related IT infrastructure investments were all awarded and
implemented between 2009 and 2012.

27.      Overall, implementation of the Project was subject to a number of significant
challenges and risks - a reflection of the complexity and difficulty associated with
implementing the intended institutional reform processes in a difficult operating
environment. Implementation took substantially longer than originally planned, activities had to
be adjusted to reflect changing priorities, and some intended changes (reorganization) were no
longer feasible. Despite these difficulties a substantial part of the original Project components,
including major ICT investments, a call center and improvements in were implemented, as
originally planned and are expected to enhance the performance of the STS.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

28.      The initial result framework relied on quantitative perception based indicators to
assess progress towards achievement of PDO. Utilizing tax payer surveys, the result framework
established four outcome indicators aligned to the main dimensions of the PDO, namely
voluntary compliance, cost of compliance, and quality and integrity of STS. Notably, one
dimension of the PDO – a growing and efficient enterprise sector- was not reflected in the
outcome indicators, presumably because this was seen as an indirect impact of the Project. For all
indicators the PAD had established baselines as well as target values, and measurements were
updated and reported regularly, as part of the Bank’s Project supervision.



                                                25
29.      The original PDO indicators suffer from a number of weaknesses. First, as perception
based data the indicators were proxies rather than direct measurements of the intended outcomes.
For example, there was empirical measurement of the degree of voluntary compliance (e.g.
estimation of tax gap) or cost of compliance. Rather the indicators were constructed using
perceptions of taxpayers. For example, the indicator measuring compliance cost is constructed
based on responses of tax payers whether they perceive tax administration to have become more
cumbersome. As such, these indicators are subject to significant noise, e.g. influences other than
impact they are intended to measure. Second, the indicators were only indirectly linked to Project
activities, making attribution challenging. Indeed, the agreed key performance proved not to be
reliable proxies to measure the achievement of project outcomes. All four PDO indictors
improved most significantly during 2004-2006, a period marked by very limited Project activity,
and flattened out during 2008-2012 when most of the project activities were implemented.

30.      At restructuring, the PDO and result framework were not formally revised, despite
significant changes in component structure and activities, supported by the Project. The
result framework still reflects the component structure at appraisal. Neither outcome nor output
indicators were revised to reflect the adjustments agreed at restructuring.

31.     While the result framework was never formally restructured, since 2009 the original
indicators were supplemented by a number of additional indicators agreed with the
Modernization Department. Selected supplemental indicators were reported in the project
supervision aide memoires (as Additional Indicators) and corresponding ISR (as Intermediate
Indicators) prepared by the supervision team in an attempt to provide a more accurate picture of
project achievements. While largely at the level of outcomes, these indicators were much more
directly linked to the Project activities and were used in order to evaluate the impact of the
Project on the specific areas the STS strived to improve, namely tax services, audit, and reduction
of regional offices. These additional indicators are as follows:
a. Increase in total number of consultations provided by the Call Center from a 2007 baseline of
    zero to 495,000 in 2012;
b. Increase in Percent of the automated VAT refund over the total VAT refund from a 2007
    baseline of 0 to 50 in 2012;
c. Increase in Percent of the number of taxpayers who received automated VAT refund over the
    total number of taxpayers who received VAT refund from a 2007 baseline of 0 to 17 in 2012;
d. Decrease share of legal entities (both companies and their subsidiaries) that undergone
    planned audits from a 2007 baseline of 3.7 to 0.7 in 2012;
e. Decrease share of legal entities (both companies and their subsidiaries) that undergone
    unplanned audits from a 2007 baseline of 7.9 to 2.0 in 2012;
f. Decrease share of legal entities (both companies and their subsidiaries) that undergone
    discretionary unplanned audits from a 2010 baseline of 1.7 to 1.3 in 2012;
g. Decrease in the number of local STS offices from a 2007 baseline of 470 to 374 in 2012.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

32.      The project has been in compliance with the project FM covenants throughout the
years of project implementation. The FM arrangements have always been acceptable and have
been rated either Moderately Satisfactory, or, in the recent years, Satisfactory. The project has
regularly and timely submitted the quarterly reports (FMRs), which have all been accepted by the
Bank. The annual audit reports have been provided on time, and independent auditors have
consistently issued unqualified (clean) audit opinions on the project financial statements. From
2007, the Project started using automated accounting system for accounting and reporting of the
project transactions. In 2009, the project reported some delays in payment of co-financing, which


                                                26
have been resolved later that year. In 2010, it was agreed that the accounting policy with respect
to use of actual exchange rates should be implemented, and therefore, all project expenditures
have been accurately documented.

33.     No Safeguards were triggered at appraisal.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

34.       At the time of the writing of this report, no decision had been taken pertaining to
the second phase of the APL, but STS has requested continued Bank support. Due the
Project restructuring, the first phase of the APL has already delivered some of the outputs
originally planned for the second phase, especially in the area of ICT investments where the
initial investment is going beyond the pilot implementation, originally envisaged. In other areas,
namely reorganization, the targets for the first phase were not achieved. The next phase –if
requested by the authorities- will therefore require quite substantially re-design to reflect this
changed reality. The STS has requested the Bank to provide continued support in designing the
next phase through fee based services. At the time of ICR preparation, the specific scope of this
support was still being deliberated between the STS and the Bank, the initial areas that are being
considered, include updating the functional requirements for those business segments that are not
included in the modernized Tax Block System and support in developing a plan for the
reorganization of STS territorial network.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

35.      The objectives and design of the STSMP continue to be highly relevant. The current
economic crisis has not only intensified fiscal pressures but also amplified the need for reforms
aimed at improving the business climate and competitiveness of the Ukrainian economy. In this
context, a modern, effective and efficient tax administration which ensures compliance with the
tax system, while lowering the compliance burden on the private sector remains critical to the
country’s overall prosperity and growth prospects. Support for tax administration modernization
therefore remains a high priority for both country authorities and the Bank. The current FY12-
FY16 World Bank Country Partnership Strategy includes tax administration as one of the
strategic areas of engagement, aiming to reduce tax compliance costs (CPS outcome 11). Most of
the areas supported under the project, including improvement of the ICT environment and
automation, reorganization, business process modernization, improved risk-management and
human capacity development remain important underpinnings for any improvement in tax
administration. The implementation arrangements created under the Project, namely the
Modernization Department and the Public Collegium are being maintained and used by the STS
beyond the life of the Project to support the implementation of the next phase of reforms,
regardless of whether the investments will be financed by a Bank operation.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

36.     The objective of the two-phase State Tax Service Modernization Program (APL)
was to establish a sustainable state revenue system. Specifically, this pertained to (a) voluntary
compliance with the Tax Legislation by taxpayers and third party payers; (b) competent, honest,
and equitable administration by the State Tax Service; and (c) a growing and efficient enterprise
sector. Phase 1 of the project aimed at establishing sound organizational and operational


                                                27
foundations for the State Tax Service by (a) modernizing business process and organizational
designs; (b) consolidating the structure and making it function-based; (c) introducing a proven
prototype of modernized taxpayer registration, tax accounting, declaration processing, and
document management function; (d) strengthening capacities in priority areas of human resource
management, senior and middle management, legislative and statistical analysis, audit, collection,
and large taxpayer offices; and (e) enhancing public accountability mechanism. As such, the
Project aimed at deep institutional transformation of the tax administration from a control
approach to a modern service-oriented culture able to master and to effectively and efficiently
enforce tax laws under a voluntary compliance-based system of tax collection.

37.     The investments undertaken during first phase of the APL have laid the foundation
for improvements in voluntary tax compliance and increased efficiency and effectiveness in
revenue collection, but challenges remain significant. The development of the new tax
administration system (Tax Block, or TB) has significantly improved the IT support to core
business functions of the STS, enabling automation, improved information flows and expansion
of e-services, including the functionality for online electronic filing of tax returns and access to
personal account information. Further improvements can be expected as the system is rolled out
nationwide, as planned for 2013. The successful roll-out may also create favorable conditions for
a consolidation of revenue collection functions, including collection of social contributions, under
the STS, thus not only increasing government efficiency but also substantially reducing taxpayer
compliance costs. Project outcomes also contributed to better targeting and enhanced
effectiveness of tax audits to those tax payers and transactions with the highest risks of non-
compliance. In other areas, however, the Project did not achieve the intended impact. While a
large tax payer office has been established, the overall reorganization and consolidation of the
STS has not been completed in view of changed Government priorities. Because core investments
were delivered during the last three years of implementation, their full impact on voluntary
compliance, and on the efficiency and effectiveness of the STS will only unfold in the coming
years and remains subject to substantial risks, discussed in more detail below (section 4).

Table 1. PDO Outcome Indicators
    Indicator                                                                 Value
                                                                Base        Target at    Actual
                                                                Line        completio    2011
                                                                2001        n of
                                                                            APL1
1   Indicator of voluntary tax compliance, %                    54.54       65.0         85.1
2   Indicator of costs for tax legislation compliance by        56.11       65.0         55.1
    taxpayers, %
3   Indicator of likelihood of detecting tax evasion and non-   51.7        60.0         58.6
    payments, %
4   Indicator of STS performance quality when administrating    33.56       55.0         65.1
    taxes and providing services to taxpayers, %

38.      A detailed review of the Project outcomes reveals a decidedly mixed picture in
regard to Project impact. Two out of four PDO outcome indicators have met their targets. The
other two indicators have lagged, one (#3 likelihood of detecting tax evasion and non-payments)
shows a positive trend towards the agreed target, while one (#2 cost of compliance) has dropped
slightly below the baseline established in 2001. Progress towards achieving the PDO is reviewed
in more detail below, utilizing the original set of PDO indicators and linking them to core
activities/outputs of the Project. Given the weaknesses in the original result framework (as
discussed in section 2.3 of this report), complementary intermediate indicators, including those


                                                   28
later agreed between the Bank and the STS are being employed to corroborate the assessment of
Project impact across the different dimensions of the PDO.

a. Improvement in Voluntary Compliance. The relevant PDO indicator, which is based on the
   timeliness of tax payments in relation to total revenue after audit, indicates a significant
   improvement in voluntary compliance from a 2001 base value of 54.5 to value of 85.1,
   exceeding the target value for this indicator which was 65.0. In terms of Project activities that
   contributed to improved compliance, the project financed the implementation of a Call Center
   which provides easily accessible taxpayers services across the country. The Project
   investments also supported the introduction of electronic filing, which significantly eased the
   filing of declarations for tax payers. At the same time, private sector information obtained by
   the ICR mission points to continued pressure on taxpayers to pay taxes in advance and to
   delay tax refunds, which is contrary to the principles of voluntary compliance.

b. Improvement in Cost of Compliance. The original indicator for the cost of compliance was
   based on estimates from taxpayer surveys. The target for this indicator was an increase from
   the 2001 baseline value of 56.1 to 65.0 at the end of Phase 1 of the Project. However, as of
   April 2012 the value of the indicator dropped to 55.1, remaining below not only the stated
   target value but also the 2001 baseline measurement. 1 In contrast with this negative trend in
   tax payer perceptions of the compliance burden, the 2013 “Doing Business – Paying Taxes?
   analysis indicates that compliance costs have been reduced. According to Doing Business
   2013, Ukraine’s move towards e-filing has quite substantially reduced the time requirement
   for tax compliance from 657 hours in Doing Business 2012 to now 491 hour. 2
   Notwithstanding this progress, this remains far above the average compliance time for OECD
   countries (186 hours) and for countries in Eastern Europe and Central Asia (302 hours). 3
   Following the implementation of the new tax information system, taxpayers may slowly start
   realizing further benefits from the investments made under the project. Based on international
   experience, a number of reforms promoted by the project should be expected to contribute to
   reducing the time and cost of compliance. In particular, risk-based audit selection and
   reduction of the number of audits (from 93,345 in 2007 to 43,941 in 2011) should reduce
   interference in the business activities of taxpayers, while the increased penetration of e-filing
   (with no additional paper filing), and the establishment of the Call Center reduce the
   necessity for physical visits to tax offices – all contributing to reductions in the compliance
   burden for tax payers.

c. Improvement in Likelihood of Detection of Non-compliance. This original indicator was
   based on taxpayer perceptions of the likelihood of detection of non-compliance. The target
   for this indicator was an improvement from the 2001 baseline value of 51.7 to 60.0 at the end
   of phase 1 of the project. As of April 2012 the value of the indicator had reached 58.6, having
   fluctuated between 57.0 and 58.0 between the 2007 survey through the 2010 survey, thus
   remaining below the intended target. However, more objective, operational data, provided by
   the STS points to a substantial gain in the additional revenue collected as a result of audits
   from about UAH 95,000 per audit in 2004 to UAH 141,000 per audit in 2011 (2004 prices),


1
  This result must be considered carefully because of the volatility of the indicator. It should be noticed that
the same indicator reached a value of 61.0 in May of 2010.
2
  As a result, Ukraine’s ranking on paying taxes criteria improved markedly to 165 out of 185 countries,
from rank 181 in the previous year.
3
  It should be noted that a significant number of hours, 364, is used by companies for the declaration of
social contributions, while CIT requires an average of 112 hours and VAT requires 181 hours.


                                                       29
    suggesting enhanced capacity to detect non-compliance of registered taxpayers. In terms of
    Project activities, the Project supported the introduction of risk-based audit selection allowing
    for better targeting of audit resources to the small number of tax cases that really need
    professional attention because of amount of tax at stake, risk of fraud or other economic or
    strategic reasons.

d. Improvement in the quality and integrity of the STS administration. The associated
   outcome indicator, measured by tax payer perceptions, experienced significant progress over
   the life of the Project from 34.6 percent in 2001 to 65.1 percent in 2011, exceeding the target
   value. The investment under the Project supported the STS in shifting tax payer services from
   direct contact in offices to (centralized) Call Centers and the internet. These channels are not
   only more cost effective but also allow for standardized information and quality control
   mechanisms, thereby enhancing service standards and professionalism. The Project also
   contributed to capacity building across the STS through the development of an e-learning
   platform and within the modernization department through the technical dialogue with the
   modernization department in the framework of the project supervision. And while technical
   assistance and training, directly financed by the Project was substantially reduced during
   restructuring, the Project facilitated the mobilization of significant grant resources from other
   donors, including from the US Treasury to support capacity development. However, as
   discussed above the originally planned consolidation of tax offices which was a critical
   component to support increased efficiency and professionalism of the STS was not achieved.

39.      The third dimension of the PDO, namely a growing and efficient enterprise sector
was not captured in the result framework. As discussed above, while a modernized tax
administration would contribute to an improved tax environment and business climate, this
dimension of the PDO is arguable only very indirectly related to the activities financed by the
Project. It is therefore not feasible, to assess the achievement of this sub-objective in a
meaningful way that would credibly attribute changes in the dynamics of the enterprise sector to
Project interventions.




                                                 30
Figure 1. Evolution of PDO Outcome Indicators During Implementation
(Higher percentages indicate higher levels of improvement)


                        Improvement in Voluntary Compliance (Target 65.0)

 110.0
  90.0
  70.0    54.5                                  86.8   88.9          90.6   91.8
                                                              81.6                 85.1
                                  69.2   74.7
  50.0                     66.0
                  59.5
  30.0
      2001       2002      2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012



                Improvement in Cost of Voluntary Compliance (Target 65.0)
 70.0
 60.0     56.1
                                                       63.8          61.1
 50.0                                           59.4          60.2
                                         53.8                                      55.1
                                                                            51.2
 40.0
 30.0
     2001        2002     2003    2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012



                     Improvement in Likelihood of Detection (Target 60.0)
 70.0
 60.0
         51.7
 50.0                                    57.6   56.8   58.0   58.0   56.9   58.8   58.6
 40.0
 30.0
     2001        2002     2003    2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012



                 Improvement in Quality of STS Performance (Target 55.0)
 70.0
 60.0                                                  66.1                        65.1
                                                              62.3   60.5   62.0
 50.0                                    56.9   57.5
 40.0    33.6
 30.0
     2001        2002     2003    2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012




                                                31
40.     Many of the intermediate indicators, envisaged in the Project’s results framework
have been achieved, although in some cases progress was uneven or was achieved late in the
implementation period As indicated previously, the indicators defined in the PAD Annex 1 were
not updated as a result of project restructuring, and reflect the components originally planned at
appraisal. Out of the ten intermediate indicators, included in the original result framework, six
output indicators have been achieved in terms of the targets set at appraisal, one was not
achieved, and three achieved mixed results. Some of the intended output indicators were
produced with support by other development partners. Table 2 below presents the status of the
output indicators and the explanation for the results achieved.

Table 2 Intermediate Outcome Indicators
Intermediate Outcome Indicator                             Status and Explanations
A complete set of detailed modernization plans             Mixed Achievement. A formal set of detailed
developed and formally adopted by the Head of STA          plans were developed and formally adopted by the
(including Strategic Plan, Functional Organization         Head of the STS in late 2003, but revoked in
Plan, Concept of Operations Document, TLISRD,              September 2005 after a change in Government.
Information Systems Architecture, and Action Plan
for Development and Management), by Q1 2004.
An up-to-date, accurate, and transparent project           Achieved. The Modernization Department
monitoring and control maintained throughout               maintained up-to-date, accurate, and transparent
project period.                                            project records during the project period, and
                                                           reported project progress as required.
A strengthened HQ and a consolidated organizational        Not Achieved. The STS has not been able to
structure (e.g., 10 super-regional and 120 inter-          achieve this target, as Government priorities with
district offices + branches), EOY 2006.                    regard to organizational consolidation changed.
A contemporary human resource management                   Mixed Achievement.. Developed program and
concept developed and under implementation, via re-        trained personnel of the Organizational Structure
organized and properly staff and properly trained HR       and Human Resource Improvement Directorate.
Department, by EOY 2006.
Approximately 350 executive and 2400 middle                Mixed Achievement. Significant training was
managers trained in and operating according to             delivered in 2006. Contemporary management
contemporary management practices, by EOY 2006.            practices, such as strategic management were
                                                           introduced in selected units, for example at the
                                                           LTO.
Tax policy and legislation prepared in a well-             Achieved. The new tax code effective as of
informed and coordinated fashion among the MOF,            January 2011 was developed in a well-coordinated
MOE, Verkhovna Rada, the STA, and other key                fashion, including participation of the private
fiscal actors, by EOY 2006.                                sector. Collaboration in legislation matters is now
                                                           the norm.
Well targeted and well informed communications             Achieved. A communications campaign was
between the STA and key public and private                 completed in 2007 which delivered informational
stakeholders in Ukraine, by EOY 2006                       materials for internal and external stakeholders
A proven prototype of modernized core tax                  Achieved. The prototype Tax Block was
administration operations (i.e. registration,              developed, tested and approved by the end-June
accounting, declaration processing, and document           2011, with the prescribed functionality
management, plus support for taxpayer services,
audit, collections, appeals) by EOY 2007
Modern Call-center operational servicing taxpayers         Achieved. The Call Center was developed, tested,
and tax officials on a nationwide basis by EOY 2007        and placed in operation in 2008. It is continuously
                                                           improving its operations, adding channels and
                                                           services to both taxpayers and tax officials.
Strengthened compliance function (including audit          Achieved. The audit function has made very
and collection functions) by EOY 2007                      substantial gains in efficiency and effectiveness.




                                                      32
41.      Finally, trends in a number of operational indicators suggest progress in critical
reform areas, supported by the Project – such as tax services and audit. These additional
indicators (reported in Table 3 below) have been monitored since 2008 to supplement the original
outcome indicators in order to evaluate progress in areas that the STS strives to improve with
support by the Project. These indicators are not only based on more objective, operational data,
but also more closely linked to Project activities and would therefore pick up trends more directly
than the perception based, original PDO indicators (see section 2.3 for the rationale in using these
indicators to supplement the original PDO indictors). Within three years after its establishment,
which was supported by the Project, the Call Center is providing over one million consultations
over telephone, by e-mail and through ordinary mail, quickly becoming a key channel for the
delivery of cost effective services to Taxpayers, and efforts are being made to assess and improve
the quality of services. The consistent reduction in the number of audits, especially unscheduled
audits is mirroring the increased use of risk based audit selection, applying objective risk factors
rather than discretion in the targeting of audit resources. This has not only translated into
improved effectiveness to detect evasion and non-compliance, but also reduced the compliance
burden, since tax audits are especially costly to taxpayers. The number of territorial offices has
fluctuated throughout the Project life, but has essentially remained unchanged since Project
appraisal.

Table 3 Additional Indicators to Assess Project Impact
Indicators                           2007        2008         2009         2010         2011
Share of legal entities filing
electronically (VAT and CIT)*

Total number of consultations        None        142,708      346,200      425,201      1,042,388
provided by the Call Center

Percent of the automated VAT         None        None         None         None         37.1
refund over the total VAT refund
Percent of the number of taxpayers   None        None         None         None         20
who received automated VAT
refund over the total number of
taxpayers who received VAT
refund
Share of legal entities (both        3.7         2.9          2.7          2.5          1.6
companies and their subsidiaries)
that undergone planned audits
Share of legal entities (both        7.9         5.0          4.4          5.2          3.2
companies and their subsidiaries)
that undergone unplanned audits
Share of legal entities (both        -           -            -            1.7          1.3
companies and their subsidiaries)
that undergone discretionary
unplanned audits
Number of local STS offices          470         470          472          463          455

3.3 Efficiency

42.     The investments financed under the Project are expected to generate both financial
and economic benefits. Most importantly, the project financed critical investments in the STS’
basic ICT infrastructure. These investments were needed to enable the STS to re-engineer its
business processes, expand the use of e-governance, including electronic filing of tax returns, and



                                                 33
to introduce a more targeted, risk based compliance strategy, based on voluntary compliance.
Modernized procedures and operations supported by a modern IT system facilitate information
exchange across the tax administration and raise its productivity. This improves effectiveness and
efficiency in tax collection and helps the Government to meet its targets for further increases in
revenues, thus contributing to sustainable fiscal management. In addition, the Project is likely to
produce economy wide benefits in terms of more consistent enforcement of and compliance with
the tax legislation and therefore enhanced business climate.

43.     At Project appraisal, the analysis was limited to financial benefits, e.g. the expected
incremental fiscal revenue, expected to be generated by the Project. These financial benefits
for the Government are generated through increased revenue performance resulting from
expanding tax bases, both in terms of inclusion of additional tax payers and more transactions
coming into the tax system (enhanced voluntary tax compliance and better risk management
systems). The financial analysis considered whether the project was expected to generate fiscal
revenues that are higher than the cost of the project in discounted and real terms. The original
financial analysis found that a positive NPV could be expected from the net cash flow generated
by the investment. The NPV was estimated at US$835 million (in 2003 prices), under the most
conservative set of baseline assumptions, but sensitivity analysis indicated that the expected net
financial benefits from the Project could far exceed the baseline estimates, as a result of fairly
marginal changes in the assumptions. Economic benefits were not estimated at appraisal, mainly
due to constraints in quantifying these benefits and in obtaining data

44.      At completion, estimating financial benefits of the Project is challenging. Over the
life of the Project, Tax revenue to GDP increased from about 20.5 percent in 2003 to more than
26 percent in 2012. Interpreting these trends and attributing them to the Project interventions is
very difficult for several reasons. First, revenue performance started to improve before the Project
became effective, and strong assumptions would have to be made to discern the incremental
impact of the Project over the trend growth rate that would be expected without the Project.
Second, as described in the section on Project implementation, major investments were only
undertaken during the period 2009-2011, making the attribution of any revenue gains prior to
2009 implausible. In fact, as was assumed in the original financial analysis- the main financial
benefits are expected to flow after completion of the Project. Given these difficulties, it is too
early to assess the financial impact of the Project in any meaningful manner. Having said this, the
overall rationale of the financial analysis conducted at appraisal remains valid. Since the Project
investment leverages the Government’s tax revenue, even very limited gains in revenue
performance would be sufficient to achieve positive financial returns for the Government. To
illustrate this basic insight, we replicate a financial analysis akin to the one undertaken at
appraisal, adjusting the cash flows for implementation delays and the fact that APL2 remains
uncertain. Under these assumptions, the results indicate that solid financial returns can be
expected from the Project. With the updated analysis we obtain a positive NPV of US$ 1.5
Billion (in 2012 prices). This is slightly above the baseline estimate obtained at appraisal, which
equaled US$ 1.3 Billion (adjusted to 2012 prices).

45.     At completion a partial economic analysis was undertaken, considering a reduction
in the cost of collection as an economic benefit of the Project. The cost of collection declined
as a share of revenue collected over the implementation of the Project from 1.8 percent in 2003 to
1.4 percent in 2011. This decline was driven by higher productivity (e.g. the above described
increase in revenues collected) rather than by reductions in administrative costs. Administrative
costs increased on average 4.7 percent in real terms during the implementation period, growing at
a lower rate than both GDP and tax revenue. While it would not be plausible to attribute the entire
productivity increase to the Project, Project interventions such as the support to the improved, risk


                                                 34
based audit function, the LTO, the Call center and automation most likely made a contribution.
To quantify these benefits, we assume that about 20 percent of the productivity increase can be
attributed to the Project. This yields a positive NPV of about US$ 222 Million (2012 prices) and
an economic IRR of 97 percent with IBRD financing. In addition, further gains in administrative
efficiency could be expected going forward, as the full benefits of the new IT system are being
extracted. Furthermore, since other direct and indirect economic benefits, such as reduced
compliance costs, improved fiscal management and improved business climate are not included
in the economic analysis; actual economic benefits are likely to exceed these estimates
substantially.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

46.      The rating of moderately satisfactory is based on the mixed results achieved at
completion of the Project. Project outcomes point to a mixed level of achievement, with two of
four PDO indicators on target. The Project financed core investments with IT systems and
infrastructure ready for nationwide deployment, an objective that was initially envisaged to be
achieved during the second phase of the APL. This has laid the foundation for improved tax
administration, enabling automation, improved information flows and expansion of e-services,
including electronic filing of tax returns and electronic payments. Project outcomes also
contributed to better targeting and enhanced effectiveness of tax audits to those tax payers and
transactions with the highest risks of non-compliance. Supporting evidence, including the recent
improvements in Ukraine’s Doing Business Ratings related to paying taxes, shows that these
improvements are beginning to have a real impact on the effectiveness and efficiency of the STS.
In other areas, however, the Project did not achieve the intended impact. While a large tax payer
office has been established, the overall reorganization and consolidation of the STS has not been
completed in view of changed Government priorities. Because core investments were delivered
during the last three years of implementation, their full impact will only unfold in the coming
years. Based on international experience in similar reforms it is reasonable to expect that over the
next one to two years the project may yield substantial gains in efficiency and effectiveness of the
STS, as well as substantial reductions in taxpayer compliance costs.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

47.     The project did not specifically target poverty impacts or social development,
although improved tax administration contributes to a better business environment while
mobilizing resources needed to finance social and economic investments by the
Government. The Project aimed at improving fairness and efficiency in the way the state obtains
resources from society, an important element of the social contract. Project deliverables enable
improvements in collection efficiency and hence more efficient and equitable resource
mobilization to finance social programs of the government, including those that benefit the poorer
segment of the population. Finally, by promoting a stronger relationship between taxpayers and
the revenue administration, the project would promote additional transparency and instill more
confidence in government, thus leading to greater social inclusion, and increased systemic equity
and transparency.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening



                                                 35
48.      Fundamentally, the Project is about institutional change and strengthening of the
tax administration. Although at the completion of the first phase of the APL, achievement
towards this objective has been mixed (as discussed in the section 3.2 on Project Outcomes), the
project has made contributions to transforming the STS into a forward looking government
agency that is increasingly managed by clearly identified strategic objectives and priorities. Key
business units of the STS, namely the Large Taxpayer Office that is responsible for 60 to 70% of
revenue collection, and the audit function, have been changed fundamentally and are now able to
plan their activities under strategic management principles that consider proactively taxpayer
behavior and compliance trends in the economy. It can be expected that the example set by these
units will be emulated across other functional units of the STS. Furthermore, public relations
campaigns by the STS have announced to the public that the STS has entered a new phase and is
now striving to be a taxpayer service-oriented agency. While representatives of the private sector,
pointed out a discrepancy gap between these goals communicated by STS and the realities of
interaction with tax inspectors, it is likely that with the implementation of new business processes
and the new tax information system planned for 2013 this gap will start to be closed.

49.      The Modernization Department that planned and executed the Project has
developed solid, internal project and change management capacity which will support
consolidation and expansion of the gains achieved under the Project. Through Project
implementation, management and staff of Modernization Department have gained deep insight
into modern revenue administration practices through study tours, interaction with international
consultants, and through the advice received from the Bank, IMF, and many other revenue
collection institutions, mostly from OECD countries. Staff from the Modernization Department
have joined key STS operational activities and now lead the modernization of several functional
areas such as the Auditing Department, the Largest Taxpayers Office, the Legal Department,
Taxpayer Services Department, and the Call Center. Clearly, the Modernization Department has
the capacity and skills needed to promote fundamental change of the STS institutional
arrangements towards well-recognized best practices.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

50.     No significant, unintended outcomes are noticeable.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

51.    Beneficiary surveys were conducted throughout Project Implementation.
Respondents included small, midsize and big companies, as well as registered private enterprises.
While the results indicate improvement across many indicators, although still about half of the
respondents perceive tax reporting and interactions with tax authorities to be burdensome.

52.    While no formal project completion workshop held with stakeholder, discussion
with selected private sector representatives confirmed both progress achieved and
remaining challenges in regards to tax administration reforms in Ukraine. The ICR team had
an opportunity to discuss the project outcomes and lessons learned with representatives of the




                                                 36
Public Collegium members and business association 4 . These stakeholders acknowledged the
following initiatives as an important steps in improving the tax administration in Ukraine: (i)
enactment of the new Tax Code, (ii) launching an e-filing system, (iii) induction of modern
technologies in the revenue administration, (iv) establishment of the Call Center, and (v)
introduction of risk based audit. The representatives, welcomed, the stated reorientation of the
STS from a fiscal agent to a service agency, though they noted that actual implementation of this
approach is falling short of the announced intention. The stakeholders also expressed serious
skepticism with regards to the public outreach efforts by the STS. While noting potential positive
effect of the public oversight mechanism initiated by the STS and currently being rolled out by
the Cabinet to other state agencies, the stakeholders expressed worries about mostly pro-forma
nature of its performance as the practice of policy decision making without sufficient prior
consultations is retained.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

53.     Project outcomes, already achieved and those expected to materialize in the future
as a result of Project investments, are subject to a number of political, operational and
technical risks. The project has delivered tools to promote gains in voluntary compliance, but
given most of the investments were implemented late towards the end of the project
implementation period in the expectation of a second APL, their full impact has yet to unfold,
making some of the expected gains uncertain. Sustainability of project results will depend largely
on the capacity of the State Tax Service to properly institutionalize the full reform agenda in a
well-coordinated approach to modernization, and deploying it in a way that ensures the equal
treatment of taxpayers in all regions of the Ukraine. While the institutionalized Modernization
Department has the capacity to carry out the work, it is not clear it will have sustained access to
the financial resources, knowledge, and high level support needed to successfully execute the
task. Full consideration must be given to sustainability issues when designing a programmatic
sequence of operations.

54.     Continued fiscal pressure could undermine prospects of real change in the way the
STS operates. Pressure on the STS, during this time of crisis, to boost revenue collection at any
cost, may lead to perverse incentives and undesirable behavior by STS collection staff,
threatening the positive but still fragile project results and impact. Indeed, as discussed above,
revenue targets (which are one of many business objectives of any tax administration), appear to
continue to dominate in the operational management of the STS, even at expense of creating high
compliance costs for taxpayers. This presents a significant risk that the tools delivered by the
project may not result in the expected improvements in voluntary compliance, at least in the
short-run.




4
  These included UFPAA, a non-governmental self-regulatory professional organization of accountants and
auditors and the European Business Association representing about 900 European, Ukrainian and
multinational companies conducting business in Ukraine.




                                                  37
55.      Disjoint implementation of the nation-wide roll-out of the new tax administration
system, without due consideration for future reorganization entails significant risks.
Deployment plans for the new tax information system call for its implementation in the current
373 field offices. Concurrently, the STS continues to consider consolidation of offices, which
may eventually be mandated by the Government. International experience points to substantial
reduction of staff as a result of automation and expansion of e-services in tax administration.
Therefore, there is a risk of wasteful investment in computer equipment, furniture, preparation of
premises, and staff training if deployment of the new tax information system takes place without
clear plans for the restructuring of the office network as originally planned for the first phase of
the APL.

56.      In addition, two technical risks have been identified with regard to the deployment
and expansion of the TB system. First, the accelerated testing of software applications may have
not uncovered all possible deficiencies, exposing the STS to operational risks, especially if the
prototype is being deployed nation-wide. This may result in increased reluctance by field offices
to adopt the new system. Second, financing of further development and integration of the
additional 15 planned segments of the tax information system remains uncertain. There is a
significant risk that this further development may not happen quickly enough to support the
planned gains in efficiency and effectiveness of the STS.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

57.      While the design was technically sound, the Project Development Objectives, and
resulting component mix was insufficiently calibrated to the operating environment. The
Bank’s inputs at the design stage were considerable. The proposed design of the components was
technically sound and built on the experience from the implementation of similar projects. The
economic and financial analysis was sufficient, albeit focused solely on expected financial
benefits. The coverage of the environmental aspects was adequate given the “C? category of the
project. The main weaknesses in the initial design relate to the very ambitious and broad Project
Development Objective and a complex Project design that was insufficiently calibrated to the
operating environment, despite a robust risk analysis which revealed substantial risks, including
the challenge of ensuring the sustained political commitment to the envisaged institutional reform
program. The initial implementation timeframe was also overly optimistic, especially given lower
than assumed implementation capacity and commitment. Monitoring and evaluation aspects
suffered from weak PDO indicators and weak causality in the Results Framework.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

58.     In the framework of Project supervision, the Bank provided a combination of
policy, operational and technical implementation support to help achieve project objectives.
The task team closely supervised implementation through regular implementation support visits
as well day-to-day monitoring from the country office. Notwithstanding repeated replacements in
the STS leadership and implementation unit management, the team was able to maintain a
constructive dialogue with the counterparts, and also between the project’s major stakeholders.
Implementation issues were candidly reported in the official documentation, including in the aide


                                                 38
memoires provided to the client, which routinely reported on progress achieved in various areas
supported by the Project, as well as operational and policy issues that required management
attention and resolution. The task team responded to the new Government’s changed priorities by
a level two restructuring of the Project. However, the documentation of the restructuring could
have been improved, and the team also missed the opportunity to revise the PDO and key
performance indicators, not only to align them to the revised design, but also to improve their
overall quality. The team somewhat addressed this shortcoming through introducing the
supplementary indicators later in the course of project implementation and reporting them in the
subsequent aide memoirs. The team managed relatively well other internal institutional
requirements related to reporting, mostly meeting the Bank-wide minimum annual reporting
standard, although ISR rating, especially of the progress towards the development objectives
appear at times too optimistic. Supervision of fiduciary aspects was carried out in a timely and
effective manner as per institutional requirements.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

59.     World Bank support to the Government of Ukraine in preparing and implementing
the project is rated as moderately satisfactory. The rating is derived from the Bank’s
performance on supervision, especially in the context of the project’s Level 2 Restructuring.
While the latter demonstrated responsiveness and adaptation to implementation challenges, the
Bank performance could have been more astute with respect to the weakening commitment by the
STS to the organizational restructuring and consolidation. Also, the restructuring package
understated the scope of changes proposed, as a result failed to modify the PDO and the Results
Framework.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

60.     At preparation, the Government of Ukraine regularly communicated its support to
the project and its objectives, but during the implementation period commitment was
inconsistent and support from the broader Government fragile. As a result, the
modernization program implementation progress was slow and uneven. Moreover, the Project
operated in difficult environment. The efforts to improve tax legislation and implement
consolidation of tax offices were significantly challenged and hence slow, in turn hampering
impact of the project. The Modernization Department was promptly established as a legal entity
and staffed, but frequent changes in the STS top leadership and project management impaired
ownership of the Project and hindered consistent, smooth Project implementation. Government
support stabilized after the restructuring with notable progress in project implementation made
over the last three years.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory




                                               39
61.      The project was implemented by the STS Modernization Department. The
Modernization Department expressed strong commitment to the project’s objectives and
activities. It was well staffed and gained good experience in project management. Project
management and technical preparation works by the STS were conducted in a satisfactory
manner. The Modernization Department has had positive impact on building and sustaining
technical capacity and ensured close coordination among the various relevant departments at all
the stages of the project implementation. Financial management systems for the Project were
appropriate; reporting was carried out on a quarterly basis, and was regularly assessed as
satisfactory. Agreed oversight arrangements were put in place, although the impact of the
Oversight Panel and Public Collegium’s has been uneven as feedback was not always taken on
board by the STS.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

62.     While inconsistent support by the broader Government was an impeding factor in
Project implementation, implementation capacity and performance was satisfactory. Taking
into account this varied performance on part of the Borrower, the overall rating is assessed as
moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

63.     The experience in preparing and implementing the Project offers several lessons
that could inform similar project designs. Some of these lessons relate to factors that impeded
Project implementation while others reflect factors that supported implementation of the Project
in Ukraine.

a.       Embedding a dedicated organizational unit responsible for leading the
modernization process and Project implementation. The Modernization Department that
implemented the Project provided about 140 full time staff to support the modernization efforts of
the STS and by extension Project Implementation. This specific feature of the Project’s
implementation arrangements had several advantages. First, since the unit is staffed with civil
servants (as opposed to temporary, external consultants hired with Project funds) it increased
Project ownership, established important Project and Change Management capacities within the
Government, improved the transfer of inputs developed by Project to operational business units
within the STS while ensuring adequate staff resources were dedicated to the Modernization
effort. Second, since the department will be sustained beyond the life of the Project it not only
enhances the sustainability of Project achievements, but also enables the STS to expand and
deepen its reform efforts and provide strong coordination among all modernization activities
independent of the source of financing.

b.       Need for setting realistic, measurable and operational performance targets that are
closely linked to Project interventions. The broad PDO and the associated outcome indicators,
established at appraisal were only loosely linked to Project investments and interventions. This
implied severe limitations in utilizing the result framework for measuring progress towards
Project objectives. While the indicators were updated as part of the regular Project supervision,
neither the borrower nor the client used performance indicators for project monitoring and
analysis. The supplemental indicators that were used during the later phase of the Project which
utilized operational data available from the STS were more useful in tracking implementation



                                                40
progress and impact in several specific areas, supported by the Project. It is important to limit the
use of key indicators that have fundamental external dependencies that are not directly linked to
the investments and activities of the Project.

c.        Combining policy, operational and technical advice in the Bank supervision and
implementation support. A key value proposition of the investment lending is the bundling of
financing and implementation support. Especially, in complex institutional reform project, the
Bank’s role is most effective, if it combines policy advice (including on strategies, priorities and
important legislation, such as the tax code), operational support (including on sound procurement,
especially of complex ICT investments) and technical advice (including on audit methodologies).
In particular, when implementation is impaired by operational problems, such as procurement
delays, there is a risk that supervision efforts focus entirely on operational issues, and lose sight
not only of key policy and technical issues, but also the results that the Project eventually seeks to
attain. It is therefore important to structure supervision to systematically reflect result orientation,
to raise policy and provide guidance on key technical issues. It is also important to anchor the
institutional reform Projects in the broader Bank engagement, including -if feasible- in Policy
based operations to reinforce key policy measures. Finally, in addition to the support provided by
Bank staff, the international Oversight Panel which was established to advise the STS throughout
Project implementation played an important role in raising key policy and technical issues.

d.      Packaging ICT investments to minimize need for systems integration by the client.
The separate contracts of the tax block system and the document management system under the
Project put significant demands on the STS to ensure integration of the application systems and
data base structures across the two sub-systems. While the STS seems to have succeeded in
forcing the contractors to coordinate integration, it is advisable to structure procurement packages
to clearly assign the responsibility for integration to a main contractor who can manage
subcontractors to minimize risks of integration failure.

e.       Carefully consider the advantages and disadvantages of two stage vs one stage
procurement procedures. Two stage procurement procedures are typically used for complex
ICT procurements because they allow participation of prospective bidders in the definition of the
technical specifications. While this offers significant advantages, the procedure involves an
extended procurement lead-time and complexity due to two stage submission process, increasing
the risk of substantial delays. In the case of the Project, two main contracts were initially planned
as two stage ICB procurements. After two failed attempts, the procedure was eventually changed
to a one stage ICB, which was successfully completed. If bidding documents with detailed
technical specifications can be developed, a determination should be made if a procurement
package qualifies to follow a one stage ICB as this may accelerate the procurement process.

f.      Using restructuring to align Project to changing priorities. It is impossible to
anticipate fundamental changes in the operating environment, such as the orange revolution at
appraisal. It is therefore important to use the flexibility offered by a Project restructuring to align
Project design to changing realities. It is equally important to reflect the impact of restructuring in
the formal project documentation.

g.      Aligning Bank investment and resources of other development partners. Many
countries are reluctant to accept investment loans with high share of consulting services,
especially if grant financed technical assistance by other international partners is available. When




                                                   41
accepted, it can easily become a target for restructuring, as was the case with the Project. The
initial Project design of APL1 envisaged 46% of the planned investment for consulting services
and technical assistance 5 , which was reduced to less than 3 percent of loan proceeds at
restructuring. In such circumstances, Bank operations need to be aligned with the support of other
development partners. The Bank’s unique comparative advantage in this context is its capacity to
provide significant investments in IT infrastructure and systems, with technical assistance
financed from loan proceeds should be focused on core –essential- technical assistance needed to
ensure the impact of IT investments. Other complementary technical assistance may be available
from other development partners. Such programmatic support needs to establish robust
coordination mechanisms to ensure co-dependent inputs are mobilized in synchronized manner,
regardless of their financing source.

h.      Continuity in the leadership is an important precondition to the successful
implementation of complex institutional reform processes, such as the ones supported by
the Project. The implementation of the Project was considerably delayed by the fact that the STS
leadership was instable leading to disruptions in a period where strong management of the reform
process was required. While leadership continuity (or lack thereof) is largely outside the control
of the Project, especially in volatile political environments, it is important to reinforce need to
ensure consistent management and leadership support through the Bank dialogue with the client.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

64.      The implementing agency provided their own Implementation Completion Report
and also detailed comments on the Bank’s ICR draft. Most of the comments provided sought
to ensure that the terminology used in the ICR matched the formal documentation of the project,
dates and facts. The Bank team was grateful for the comments provided and they have been
reflected in the final version of the ICR, with one exception regarding the estimated project costs
after restructuring. The Bank's internal information on project costs after restructuring differed
significantly from the information provided by the implementing agency. The ICR reflects the
World Bank project information records. The implementing agency also provided the Bank with a
comprehensive project evaluation report. The ICR mission used the comprehensive report as one
of the important sources of information during the ICR mission. The ICR team was pleased to
note a significant agreement between the Bank and the implementing agency regarding project
accomplishments, both outputs and outcomes. In spite of agreement on the facts of the project the
ICR team noted a deviation between the implementing ratings and ICR team ratings for key areas
of assessment as demonstrated in the table 4 below.




5
  This is the consequence of the phased approach where the APL1 was focused on technical design and
prototyping (requiring substantial technical assistance inputs), while most of the infrastructure and IT
investment needed for nation-wide rollout of systems was initially planned for APL2.




                                                     42
Table 4 ICR Ratings

                                            Implementing
Assessed Area             ICR Team Rating                         Explanation for Deviation
                                            Agency Rating

                                                            The implementing agency emphasized
                                                            the project period after restructuring
                            Moderately                      and particularly the last years of
Overall Project Outcome                      Satisfactory
                            Satisfactory                    intense implementation, as well as
                                                            achievement of critical planned
                                                            outcomes in spite of delays.
                                                            The implementing agency recognized
                                                            the negative impact of frequent
                            Moderately
Borrower Performance                         Satisfactory   changes in project management but
                            Satisfactory
                                                            believed it managed to achieve the
                                                            intended outcomes nevertheless.
                                                            The implementing agency was very
                                                            complimentary of the Bank's
                                                            performance, particularly the Bank's
                                                            ability to arrange assistance for project
                            Moderately
Bank Performance                             Satisfactory   preparation, and to provide substantial
                            Satisfactory
                                                            technical assistance during
                                                            implementation. No reference was
                                                            made to timeliness of outputs and
                                                            outcomes.


(b) Other partners and stakeholders

65.     Comments by US Treasury Office of Technical Assistance: Between 2001 and 2011,
development of the STSMP was significantly aided by the US Treasury Office of Technical
Assistance (OTA). OTA assisted in the preparing the project proposals, the Operations Manual
and in the overall readiness of the STA to embark on modernization. It offered expert assistance
in the form of three resident advisors and multiple short-term experts supporting almost all
aspects of business process re-engineering, creation of the CONOPS documentation, which
formed the basis for manual and system requirements for modernization and in preparation of the
procurement strategy and tender documents. OTA also furnished one of the members of the
Oversight Panel contemplated under the Loan Agreement. Overall, OTA’s technical assistance
approached $3 million.




                                               43
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                         Restructuring       Actual/Latest            Percentage of
                                    Appraisal Estimate
Components                                                                   Estimate (USD            Appraisal/
                                    (USD millions)
                                                                             millions)                Restructuring
A1. ORGANIZATION &
MANAGEMENT
                                                  52.5              N/A                         7.8                    15%
MODERNIZATION
COMPONENT
A2. OPERATIONS
MODERNIZATION                                     22.3              N/A                         1.5                     7%
COMPONENT
1. Project Implementation Mgt. &
                                                  N/A                9.5                        2.6                   27.5%
Accountability
2. Short-term Initiatives to
Improve Tax Admin. Processes
                                                  N/A               36.5                       17.6                   48.3%
Short-term Initiatives to Improve
Tax Admin. Processes
3. Initiative to Improve Tax
                                                  N/A                    0                       0                    0.0%
Legislation
4. Taxpayer Services                              N/A               10.1                        5.4                   53.3%
5. Integrated Tax Administration
                                                  N/A               19.7                       29.8               151.5%
Information System
6. Structure & Functional Reform
                                                  N/A                0.8                        0.1                   12.0%
of Tax Admin.
7. Training                                       N/A                0.8                        0.4                   48.8%
                                                                    77.4
Total Baseline Cost                               74.8                                         65.2                    87%
Physical Contingencies                             6.4              N/A                        N/A                     N/A
Price Contingencies                                                 N/A                        N/A                     N/A
                                                   4.0
                                                                    77.4
Total Project Costs                               85.2                                         N/A                     N/A
Front-end fee PPF                                 0.02              N/A                        0.02                 99.3%
Front-end fee IBRD                                 0.4              N/A                         0.4                  100%
                                                                                                                     77%/
                                                                                                                (84.4% of
Total Financing Required                          85.6              77.4                       65.6
                                                                                                             Restructuring
                                                                                                                 Estimate)

(b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                          Type of                                        Percentage of
Source of Funds                                            Estimate       Estimate
                                          Cofinancing                                    Appraisal
                                                           (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                                                            45.6           25.6         56.2%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                                     40.0       39,992,521.1             99.98%
and Development


Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                                   44
As explained previously, the project was subject of a corrective restructuring in 2006. As a result
of the restructuring the component structure of the project was changed from the structure
described in the PAD, consisting of two components and ten subcomponents, to a new structure
consisting of seven components, as follows:

 Component                 Component Name and Focus
 1:                Project Implementation Management and Public Accountability
 2:                Improvement of Tax Administration Processes – Short-Term Activities
 3:                Improvement of Tax Legislation
 4:                Improvement of Taxpayer Services
 5:                Development of the Integrated Information System
 6:                Function-based Restructuring of the State Tax Service Offices
 7:                Ukraine’s STS Personnel Training

Because of the nature of the restructuring which involved adding new areas of focus through
Components 2 and 4, elimination of original activities that required significant investment in
technical assistance, and focus on more practical and immediate results, it is not straight forward
to map the old component structure into the new component structure. Hence, the ICR reports
project outputs based on the restructured components.

A similar approach is used to discuss the final status of the output indicators defined in Annex 1
of the PAD. The facilitate understanding of project outputs at the time a table is attached below
describing project output before restructuring.

Component 1: Project Implementation Management and Public Accountability. The main
output of this sub-component was a well-functioning project management and administration
department. This component was executed for the whole duration of the project. The department
employs about 200 staff who are responsible inter-alia for strategic planning, development of
business processes, development of ICT architectures, preparation of action plans for
implementation, change management, and acceptance of deliverables. The department is also
responsible for the fiduciary responsibilities defined in the loan agreement. The department
delivered appropriately within its administrative powers. The following are specific key
deliverables of the component:

Strategic project management documents before and after restructuring: implementation plan, procurement
and financial plans; project operational manual; conceptual architecture for an integrated tax information
system; developed and proposed a new organizational model; developed plan for office consolidation;
developed a new human resource management concept, re-engineered 19 operational business processes;
and defined top-level system requirements for procurement of information systems and ICT infrastructure.

Ensure execution of the activities of the Oversight Panel, which met regularly during the whole
duration of the project, Public Collegium, and Inter-Agency Working Group.

Prepared and delivered fiduciary reports required by the World Bank including, inter-alia, project
reports, project audits, and financial reports as required.

Procured and implemented the Research and Testing Laboratory of the STS of Ukraine. This
laboratory enables all the ICT research and testing necessary for the acceptance of project




                                                    45
deliverables. It also includes training facilities needed to provide tax officers with the skills
needed to execute their functions using the new systems provided by the project.

Component 2: Improvement of Tax Administration Processes – Short-Term Activities. The
objective of this component was to improve ongoing operations of the STS under then existing
methodological and infrastructure constraints. This component was introduced at restructuring
time to improve transparency and efficiency of processes for administering taxes (VAT, CIT, and
excise), and to enhance professional skills of those tax officials who deal with tax administration
issues to facilitate implementation of the future integrated tax administration system. The
following are specific key deliverables of the component:

Developed and implemented a new Code of Conduct and Ethics.

Developed and implemented the concept of risk-based auditing, albeit using traditional manual methods in
anticipation for future automation assistance, which is currently being piloted under the Tax Block.

Procurement and implementation of modern computer equipment to STS regional and rayon level
offices consisting of 462 servers and nearly 17,000 workstations.

Component 3: Improvement of Tax Legislation. The objective of this component was to
promote the simplification of Ukraine’s tax laws, their compliance with EC legislation and WTO
Agreements’ requirements, application of best international taxation practices, and bridging gaps
in the current tax legislation. These activities were originally part of the Legislative and Statistical
Analysis subcomponent of the project. It is important to notice that many of the business process
enhancements necessary to increase STS efficiency required legislative support. The following
are specific key deliverables of the component:

Several law amendments were prepared to support project deliverables the main ones being the
amendments to support the introduction of electronic filing and elimination of the need for paper
filing, digital signature, and risk-based audit. It is important to notice that because of the
increased level of knowledge of tax laws, the STS has been awarded a leading role in the
preparation of procedural code legislation.

A new tax code was passed in December 2010 and introduced in January 2011. The new tax code
promotes a more even relationship between tax inspector and taxpayer, contains several measures
to reduce the compliance costs of taxpayers, and introduces a simplified regime for small
businesses.

Component 4: Improvement of Taxpayer Services. This component is a fresh addition to the
project following restructuring. The main objective of the component is to achieve increased
compliance, transparent performance, better services to taxpayers, and increased trust of tax
system. Originally, taxpayer services were intended to be enhanced in phase 2 of the APL, after
the core modules of the modern integrated tax information systems had been implemented. The
following are specific key deliverables of the component:

The STS information portal was implemented. The portal provides taxpayers with information on
their tax responsibilities, forms, access to the same Questions-and-Answers database that is used
by the Call Center to respond to public queries, and the ability to file returns. An e-Services
strategy has been developed, and the STS portal is being continuously upgraded to offer more and
more electronic services to taxpayers.



                                                   46
Procured and implemented the Call/Contact Center of the State Tax Service of Ukraine that
provides countrywide taxpayer assistance services via telephone, facsimile, and e-mail.

Developed the concept of Electronic Taxpayer Cabinet to deliver web-based services to taxpayers,
including real-time electronic filing of tax returns, access to previously submitted tax documents
and the taxpayer accounts, taxpaying responsibility calendar, , calculation of fines, scheduling
visits to the STS, filing of appeals, etc.

Component 5: Development of the Integrated Information System. This component of the
project seeks to develop and pilot an Integrated Information System to automate the STS
operation and management processes, and promote transparency and standardization of the
taxpayers’ service processes. The integrated information system was expected to cover: (a) Tax
Block consisting of taxpayer registration, tax accounting, declaration processing, payment
processing, and tax audit; and (b) Document management. The integrated system was expected to
provide support for client services, audit, arrears collections, etc. The following are specific key
deliverables of the component:

The Tax Block Information System has been procured, developed, implemented in five pilot sites,
and has been accepted by the STS for countrywide implementation. System design was changed
from a multi-tier to a more modern centralized operation and central database. It is planned that
the STS will roll-out the system in 2013. The Tax Block Information System provides automation
and upgrading of the following processes: taxpayer registration, declaration and payment
processing, tax and taxpayer accounting, and selection for tax audit. The system provides
taxpayers with online access to taxpayer data. The system provides access to the information that
is available on the database, within the scope of tax officer functional duties. The system
automatically provides management with performance data on STS operations.

The Document Management Information System has been procured, developed, implemented in
six pilot sites, has been accepted by the STS, and is already being made available STS-wide. The
document management system has been integrated with the Tax Block system to facilitate its use
by STS officials. The system uses advanced information technologies to improve STS data
management processes related to collection, registration, transfer, accumulation, retrieval,
processing and provides document protection.

66.    The prototype of the new Tax Block and DMS covers five core segments out of 20
planned functional segments, listed on Table 3 below.

                    Table 1 Functional Coverage of the Tax Block System
                Target
                         Functional Segment
                Phase
                  1      Taxpayer Registration
                  1      Tax Reporting and Payment Documents Processing
                  1      Tax Accounts
                  1      Tax Audit (Audit Selection)
                  2      Tax Audit (Remaining Functionality)
                  2      Management Information System
                  1      Document Management
                  2      Personnel Management
                  2      Taxpayer Services
                  2      Taxpayer Appeals
                  2      Tax Arrears Collection
                  2      Internal Controls


                                                 47
                    2      Pre-Trial Investigation (Criminal Investigations)
                    2      Drafting and Implementation of Laws and Regulations
                    2      Court Settlement of Arbitration Cases Involving STS Offices
                    2      Public Relations
                    2      Anti-Corruption Efforts
                    2      Curbing Illegal Income Laundering
                    2      Logistics and Finances
                    2      Tax Administration Processes Automation

The concept of the "Electronic Taxpayer’s Card" system has been developed, which provides for
the use of Electronic Taxpayer’s Card as a mean of safe access to the information systems of STS,
including the Electronic Taxpayer Office. It is assumed that the Electronic Taxpayer’s Card will
make it possible to use the digital signature, according to international standards. This system
enables taxpayers to carry out their responsibilities electronically with no physical contact with
tax inspectors.

The ICT Infrastructure consisting of processing and network technologies has been procured and
accepted by the STS. The infrastructure concept of the project was significantly changed with the
adoption of a centralized automation approach. Moreover, the scope of the ICT infrastructure
changed from an infrastructure to support prototyping to one that would support countrywide
implementation of the integrated information system. In this new model data processing and
information services are to be provided by the STS Data Processing Center (DPC), which still
being implemented. DPC functions are to process, store and distribute information. The Data
Processing Center consists of the following components: (a) information infrastructure, including
server equipment, which ensures basic DPC functions – information processing and storage; (b)
telecommunication infrastructure, which links the DPC components and ensures data transfer
between the DPC and tax inspectors and taxpayers; (c) engineering infrastructure which ensures
proper functioning of the major DPC systems; and (d) high-level technical expertise.
The project delivered a number of vehicles to support transportation of testing staff, incoming
declarations, and outgoing documents between tax offices and the DPC processing facilities.

Component 6: Function-based Restructuring of the State Tax Service Offices. This
component of the project intended to streamline the organizational structure of STS offices at all
levels to ensure smooth interaction with taxpayers, government agencies and other organizations.
It inherited these activities from the original PAD subcomponent on Organization Consolidation,
whose objectives were formally changed during restructuring. Though the component was not
able to deliver on its main objective, it has laid a good foundation for future streamlining of the
office network. The following are specific key deliverables of the component:

Developed an Office Consolidation Concept. This concept was actually adopted officially but not executed
due to change in STS leadership. The concept included the criteria for consolidation considering number of
taxpayers, population, size of geographical area to be covered, etc.

Developed model for functional organization of tax offices, the job descriptions to support the functional
organization, and an action plan for its execution. This plan is currently being executed.

Component 7: Ukraine’s STS Personnel Training. The objective of this component of the
project was to ensure that STS personnel would be timely trained to perform redesigned and
reengineered functions within the enhanced organizational structure. These activities were
originally part of the Human Resource Management subcomponent defined in the PAD. Actual
output of this component was constrained by the late acceptance of the integrated information


                                                    48
system, which will only be implemented in 2013, and the slow modernization of the
organizational structure. The following are specific key deliverables of the component:

Delivered training for the five pilots on new business processes and how they are supported by the new
information systems: Tax Block and Document Management. Train-the-trainers methodology was used
with the contractors training STS trainers. Those trainers will be eventually used to support the roll-out of
the systems.

Implemented distance learning infrastructure. This infrastructure is also being used by top
management and line departments for video-conference meetings. Webinar methodologies have
also been implemented to support the training program.




                                                     49
Table 2 Project Outputs by Component Prior to Restructuring
Components and Subcomponents
                                     Key Outputs                                                      Explanations and Sustainability
Before Restructuring
A1: Organization and Management
Modernization
A1.1: Strategic Project Management   The main output of this sub-component was a well-                The STS recognized the value of the Modernization
                                     functioning project management and administration                Department for the organization. The department
                                     department. The department employs about 140 staff who           coordinates all modernization activities, the Bank project
                                     are responsible inter-alia for strategic planning, development   having been the most significant to-date.
                                     of business processes, development of ICT architectures,
                                     action plans for implementation, change management, and          Department staff have been integrated into the STS
                                     acceptance of deliverables. The department is also               management structure and are now leading some of the most
                                     responsible for the fiduciary responsibilities defined in the    important tax administration activities such as the Legal
                                     loan agreement. The department delivered appropriately           Department, Large Taxpayer Office and Call Center.
                                     within its administrative powers.
                                                                                                      At restructuring it was decided that this activity would
                                     Another key output was the delivery and implementation of        continue as originally planned. The Modernization
                                     The Research and Testing Laboratory of the STS of                Department was institutionalized and will continue to exist
                                     Ukraine, which enables the thorough testing and acceptance       as a key STS asset.
                                     of deliverables before deployment into tax administration
                                     operations.
A1.2: Organization Consolidation     Little, if any progress was made in the consolidation of the     There was mixed political support for the reduction of the
                                     local office network. At the beginning of project execution      local office network during the early years of the project
                                     STS orders were issued to consolidated offices along the         although this is a critical step to increase the distance
                                     lines defined in the loan agreement, but these orders were       between tax payers and tax officials.
                                     cancelled soon thereafter due to change of STS
                                     management. The office network was actually expanded             It is understandable that substantial achievements in this area
                                     from 446 offices in 2003 to 502 offices in 2007, far from the    can only be achieved once tested business processes and
                                     PAD target of 120-130 offices. As of July 2012 the STS had       information systems are available to create the conditions for
                                     373 local offices.                                               a well-functioning tax administration that does not depend
                                                                                                      on physical contact with taxpayers.
                                     A Centralized Data Processing Center concept was adopted
                                     and implemented, replacing the concept of 6-10 super-            At restructuring the office consolidation objective was
                                     regional units defined in the PAD.                               formally dropped.




                                                                       50
Components and Subcomponents
                                             Key Outputs                                                  Explanations and Sustainability
Before Restructuring
A1.3: Human Resource Management              Training in HR planning and management were delivered        With its own resources, the STS has put in place a
                                             prior to restructuring.                                      significant infrastructure to increase the level of
                                                                                                          professionalism of its staff, which includes a formal
                                                                                                          educational institution (STS University) and training centers.
                                                                                                          They are capable of delivering undergraduate and graduate
                                                                                                          programs using traditional and distance learning
                                                                                                          methodologies.

                                                                                                          At restructuring the Human Resource planning activities of
                                                                                                          the project were dropped. The training activities continued
                                                                                                          under the Ukraine's STS Personnel Training component.
A1.4: Management Capacity Building           Some light training on modern management methods was         Top management opted to use existing loan resources for
                                             delivered prior to project restructuring.                    much needed computer equipment given the uncertainty
                                                                                                          regarding organizational development and availability of
                                                                                                          other potential free sources of management training.

                                                                                                          This subcomponent was dropped during project
                                                                                                          restructuring.
A1.5: Legislative and Statistical Analysis   Prior to project restructuring technical assistance was      It is expected that the analytical capacity created by the
                                             delivered, including gap analysis models, and a study tour   project will continue to be used by the STS for the strategic
                                             executed on legislative and statistical analysis.            management of its operations. Clear indications were
                                                                                                          provided by the Large Taxpayers Office which already
                                             Project management staff developed and implemented a         makes use of performance indicators as a key management
                                             comprehensive set of indicators to manage the project and    tool.
                                             tax administration results.
                                                                                                          Data exchange protocols have been implemented and will
                                             ICT protocols for inter-agency information exchange were     continue to be used.
                                             developed and implemented.
                                                                                                          After project restructuring project execution concentrated on
                                                                                                          improving legislation through the new Improvement of Tax
                                                                                                          Legislation component.




                                                                              51
Components and Subcomponents
                                          Key Outputs                                                    Explanations and Sustainability
Before Restructuring
A1.6: Stakeholder Relations               Prior to restructuring, informational material on the impact   STS has continued the use of public campaigns telling its
                                          of the project was prepared, reproduced and distributed to     employees and the public of the changes it is trying to
                                          internal and external stakeholders.                            implement and the new service orientation of the agency.
                                                                                                         These are being carried out with STS own resources.

                                                                                                         This subcomponent was dropped during project
                                                                                                         restructuring.
A2: Operations Modernization Component
A2.1: Prototype Core Tax Administration   Prior to restructuring the only output of this subcomponent    Procurement of the Tax Block and Document Management
Operations                                was the procurement and implementation of office and           systems was very difficult and only successful on the third
                                          computing equipment to support the activities of the experts   attempt. Early attempts started in 2004 with two stage ICB
                                          working on the subcomponent.                                   but procurement failed. A second attempt also failed to yield
                                                                                                         bid proposals within the planned price range.

                                                                                                         This subcomponent was continued after restructuring as
                                                                                                         Development of the Integrated Information System
                                                                                                         component.
A2.2 Customer Service Call Center         There was no output from this subcomponent prior to            With the lack of progress in other areas of the project it
                                          project restructuring.                                         would not have made sense to proceed with this
                                                                                                         subcomponent activities.

                                                                                                         The activities of this subcomponent were moved, during the
                                                                                                         restructuring process, to the new Improvement of Taxpayer
                                                                                                         Services component.
A2.3 Compliance Strengthening             There was no output from this subcomponent prior to            STS was able to retain technical assistance from other
                                          project restructuring.                                         donors to cover this requirement including: IMF, US
                                                                                                         Treasury and EU TACIS.

                                                                                                         This subcomponent was dropped during project
                                                                                                         restructuring.




                                                                            52
Components and Subcomponents
                                        Key Outputs                                           Explanations and Sustainability
Before Restructuring
A2.4 Large Taxpayer Office Operations   There was no output from this subcomponent prior to   STS was able to retain technical assistance from other
Support                                 project restructuring.                                donors to cover this requirement including: IMF, US
                                                                                              Treasury and EU TACIS.

                                                                                              This subcomponent was dropped during project
                                                                                              restructuring.




                                                                        53
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
The investments financed under the Project are expected to generate both financial and economic benefits.
Most importantly, the project financed critical investments in the STS’ basic ICT infrastructure. These
investments were needed to enable the STS to re-engineer its business processes, expand the use of e-
governance, including electronic filing of tax returns, and to introduce a more targeted, risk based
compliance strategy, based on voluntary compliance. Modernized procedures and operations supported by a
modern IT system facilitate information exchange across the tax administration and raise its productivity.
This improves effectiveness and efficiency in tax collection and helps the Government to meet its targets for
further increases in revenues, thus contributing to sustainable fiscal management. In addition, the Project is
likely to produce economy wide benefits in terms of more consistent enforcement of and compliance with
the tax legislation and therefore enhanced business climate.

Economic and Financial Analysis at Appraisal

At Project appraisal, the analysis was limited to financial benefits, e.g. the expected incremental fiscal
revenue, expected to be generated by the Project. These financial benefits for the Government are generated
through increased revenue performance resulting from expanding tax bases, both in terms of inclusion of
additional tax payers and more transactions coming into the tax system (enhanced voluntary tax compliance
and better risk management systems). The financial analysis considered whether the project was expected to
generate fiscal revenues that are higher than the cost of the project in discounted and real terms. While
increased revenues are crucial from the government’s financial perspective, they are generated through
financial transfers from the private to the public sector and their overall welfare effect therefore depends on
whether the marginal return of public expenditures exceeds the marginal return on foregone private spending.
Economic benefits, including those that lend themselves to quantification such as increased operational
efficiency and reduced administrative costs of the tax administration and reduced compliance costs for the
tax payer through simplified tax administration procedures and improved tax payer services were not
considered in the analysis.

The original financial analysis found that a positive NPV could be expected from the net cash flow generated
by the investment. The NPV was estimated at US$835 million (in 2003 prices), under the most conservative
set of baseline assumptions. The assumptions used in the original cost calculation included: (a) the
investment costs estimated for the STSMP; (b) the incremental recurrent cost estimated for the STSMP,
which are held at the 2012 level, plus inflation, for the years 2013-2033; and (c) a 5-year depreciation and
asset replenishment program for 2004-2033 (inflation adjusted). Using a 10 percent discount rate, the present
value of the total cost stream is US$226 million. The incremental revenue calculation made a simple
assumption that revenue performance improves by a fixed percentage each year between 2005 and 2012 (the
expected end of the second phase of the APL) and would then stay at the improved level for the years 2013-
33. The percentage improvement each year was not compounded, but simply an increment over a baseline
stream of revenues (based on the assumption of no STSMP). Since the STSMP cost data were denominated
in nominal US dollars (inflated at 1.8 percent per year), the baseline revenues are also stated in US$ and
inflated at the same rate. Further, the baseline assumed a PPP, no-growth scenario. As was pointed in the
original analysis, the overall assumptions employed for the financial analysis were extremely conservative
and sensitivity analysis indicated that the expected net financial benefits from the Project could far exceed
the baseline estimates, as a result of fairly marginal changes in the assumptions.

Economic benefits were not estimated at appraisal, mainly due to constraints in quantifying these benefits
and in obtaining data

Financial Analysis at Completion

Estimating financial benefits of the Project is challenging. Over the life of the Project, Tax revenue to GDP
increased from about 20.5 percent in 2003 to more than 26 percent in 2012. Interpreting these trends and
attributing them to the Project interventions is very difficult for several reasons. First, as can be seen from
figure 1 below, revenue performance started to improve before the Project became effective, and strong
assumptions would have to be made to discern the incremental impact of the Project over the trend growth
rate that would be expected without the Project. Second, as described in the section on Project


                                                     54
implementation, major investments were only undertaken during the period 2009-2011, making the
attribution of any revenue gains prior to 2009 implausible. In fact, as was assumed in the original financial
analysis- the main financial benefits are expected to flow after completion of the Project.

Figure 1 Revenue Performance over the Project Life
                                 29    Project Inception                              Project
                                                                                      Completion
   Tax Revenue, Percent of GDP



                                 27
                                 25
                                 23
                                 21
                                 19
                                 17
                                 15
                                      200120022003200420052006200720082009201020112012


Given these difficulties, it is too early to assess the financial impact of the Project in any meaningful manner.
Having said this, the overall rationale of the financial analysis conducted at appraisal remains valid. Since
the Project investment leverages the Government’s tax revenue, even very limited gains in revenue
performance would be sufficient to achieve positive financial returns for the Government. To illustrate this
basic insight, we replicate a financial analysis akin to the one undertaken at appraisal, adjusting the cash
flows for implementation delays and the fact that APL2 remains uncertain. Specifically, we apply the
following assumptions:

               •                  Costs: (a) the investment costs estimated for the STSMP APL1; (b) the incremental recurrent cost
                                  estimated for the STSMP, which are held at the 2012 level, plus inflation, for the years 2013-2033;
                                  and (c) a 5-year depreciation and asset replenishment program for 2004-2033 (inflation adjusted).
                                  These assumptions are largely consistent with the original assumptions with two adjustments: i) we
                                  adjust the cash flow to reflect the actual disbursement and ii) we adjust total investment costs to only
                                  cover APL1, as opposed to the full cost of the program, applied at appraisal.

               •                  Benefits: On the benefits we vary the original assumptions. We first estimate baseline revenue,
                                  using the trend growth rate prior to 2008 (revenue to GDP elasticity for the years 2000-2008 is
                                  1.144). We further assume that the Project will increase the growth rate over and above this trend
                                  growth rate (with an implicit revenue to GDP elasticity of 1.3), for the period from 2012-2015. This
                                  would result in a shift equal to X percent in the revenue to GDP ratio. We further assume i) a
                                  baseline economic growth rate of 4 percent, ii) exchange rate and iii) annual inflation at 5 percent.

Under these assumptions, the results indicate that solid financial returns can be expected from the Project.
With the updated analysis we obtain a positive NPV of US$ 1.5 Billion (in 2012 prices). This is slightly
above the baseline estimate obtained at appraisal, which equaled US$ 1.3 Billion (adjusted to 2012 prices).

Financial Analysis
                                                  2004     2005     2006     2007          2008    2009     2010     2011     2012      2013     2014

 Inflows
 Tax Revenue Increase                                                                                                                   106.17   115.94

 Total Inflows                                      0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00          0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00    106.17   115.94
 Outflows
 Investment (IBRD)                                (0.70)   (0.10)   (0.10)   (0.10)    (15.30)     (0.60)   (0.80)   (1.00)   (18.60)    (2.7)   0.00
 Incremental Operating
 Costs                                                                                             (1.59)   (1.67)   (1.77)    (3.63)   (3.90)    (3.90)

 Total Outflows                                   (0.70)   (0.10)   (0.10)   (0.10)    (15.30)     (2.19)   (2.47)   (2.77)   (22.23)   (6.60)    (3.90)




                                                                                      55
 Net Cash Flow
 w/o financing
 (undiscounted)          (0.70)      (0.10)     (0.10)    (0.10)    (15.30)     (2.19)    (2.47)     (2.77)   (22.23)    99.57   112.04
 Debt Cash Flow             0.70      0.10       0.10       0.10        15.30    0.60         0.80    1.00     18.60      2.70     0.00

 Net Cash Flow              0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00         0.00   (1.59)    (1.67)     (1.77)    (3.63)   102.27   112.04
 with financing
 (undiscounted)
 Financial NPV           1507.44
 w/o financing                       Real Financial NPV from Total Investment Point of View
 Financial NPV           1527.19
 with financing                      Real Financial NPV from Government Point of View
 Financial IRR              55%
 w/o financing                       Real Financial IRR from Total Investment Point of View
 Financial IRR              171%

 with financing                      Real Financial IRR from Government Point of View


Economic Analysis at Completion

As indicated above, the analysis at appraisal did not consider economic benefits quantitatively. In principle,
quantifiable economic benefits can be expected from 1) increased operational efficiency and reduced
administrative costs of the tax administration and 2) reduced compliance costs for the tax payer through
simplified tax administration procedures and improved tax payer services.

The estimation of reductions in compliance costs in Ukraine is constrained by the fact, that data on the level
of compliance costs before and after the Project are not readily available. In addition, available indicators on
the compliance burden, including the results of tax payer surveys and the Doing Business 2012 assessment,
indicate that compliance costs may remain high, even so reductions may occur in the future as a result of the
investments, financed under the Project.

Figure 2 Administrative Cost over the life of the Project
2.500%
                  Administrative Cost of Collection, % of Tax Revenue

2.000%


1.500%


1.000%


0.500%


0.000%
             2003    2004     2005      2006      2007      2008        2009    2010      2011


Administrative cost of collection steadily declined as a share of revenue collected over the implementation of
the Project. This decline was driven by higher productivity (e.g. the above described increase in revenues
collected) rather than by reductions in administrative costs. Administrative costs increased on average 4.7
percent in real terms during the implementation period, growing at a lower rate than both GDP and tax
revenue. While it would not plausible to attribute the entire productivity increase to the Project, we assume
that Project interventions such as the support to the improved, risk based audit function, the LTO, the Call
center and automation made a contribution. To quantify these benefits, we assume that about 20 percent of



                                                                   56
the productivity increase can be attributed to the Project. This yields a positive NPV of about US$ 222
Million (2012 prices) and an economic IRR of 97 percent with IBRD financing. In addition, further gains in
administrative efficiency could be expected going forward, as the full benefits of the new IT system are
being extracted.

Furthermore since other direct and indirect economic benefits, such as reduced compliance costs, improved
fiscal management and improved business climate are not included in the economic analysis, actual
economic benefits are likely to exceed these estimates substantially.




                                                   57
Economic Analysis
                  2004     2005     2006     2007       2008     2009      2010     2011      2012      2013       2014
Inflows
Reduced
Administrative
Cost                                                                                                       31.27   34.15
Total Inflows       0.00    0.00     0.00        0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00       31.27   34.15
Outflows
Investment                                              (15.30                                (18.60
(IBRD)            (0.70)   (0.10)   (0.10)   (0.10)          )   (0.60)    (0.80)   (1.00)         )       (2.7)
Incremental
Operating Costs                                                  (1.59)    (1.67)   (1.77)     (3.63)   (3.90)     (3.90)
                                                        (15.30                                (22.23
Total Outflows    (0.70)   (0.10)   (0.10)   (0.10)          )   (2.19)    (2.47)   (2.77)          )   (6.60)     (3.90)

Net Cash Flow



w/o financing                                           (15.30                                (22.23
(undiscounted)    (0.70)   (0.10)   (0.10)   (0.10)          )   (2.19)    (2.47)   (2.77)         )       24.67   30.25
Debt Cash Flow      0.70    0.10     0.10        0.10   15.30      0.60     0.80      1.00    18.60         2.70    0.00

Net Cash Flow       0.00    0.00     0.00        0.00    0.00    (1.59)    (1.67)   (1.77)    (3.63)       27.37   30.25


with financing
(undiscounted)
Financial NPV                          202.56
w/o financing                                     Real Financial NPV from Total Investment Point of View
Financial NPV                          222.31
with financing                                    Real Financial NPV from Government Point of View
Financial IRR                              29%
w/o financing                                     Real Financial IRR from Total Investment Point of View
Financial IRR                              97%
with financing                                    Real Financial IRR from Government Point of View




                                                         58
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision
Processes
(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
Names                      Title                               Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
Svetlana Budagovskaya      Senior Economist                    ECSP3
Valery R. Ciancio          Operations Officer                  CFPTO
Rama C. Chandran           N/A                                 N/A
Nancy Sabina Davies-Cole   Program Assistant                   ECSP2
Dmytro Derkatch            Communications Officer              ECCUA
Michael Engelschalk        Senior Private Sector Development   CICTI
                           Specialist
Carlos D. C. Ferreira      Consultant                          ECSP4
Richard Gargrave           Senior Procurement Specialist       ECSOQ
Valeriy Gladkiy            N/A                                 N/A
Hiran Herat                N/A                                 N/A
Olga V. Ivanova            N/A                                 N/A
Vitaly Kazakov             N/A                                 N/A

Maria Koreniako            Sr Program Asst.                    ECCUA
Helena I. Makarenko        Language Program Assistant          ECSP3
Karina Mostipan            Senior Procurement Specialist       ECSO2
Ganna Musakova             Senior Program Assistant            LCSHE
Craig R. Neal              Consultant                          MNSEG Task Team Leader
Alison S. Panton           N/A                                 N/A
Ilene Photos               N/A                                 N/A

Alexey V. Proskuryakov     Consultant                          LCSPS
Pervaiz Rashid             N/A                                 N/A
Luis Alvaro Sanchez        Consultant                          IEGCC
Gurcharan Singh            Senior Procurement Specialist       TWICT
Irina Shmeliova            Procurement Analyst                 ECSO2
Douglas Sumerfield         Operations Officer                  AFTEW
Dusan Vujovic              N/A                                 N/A
Supervision/ICR
Irina Babich               Financial Management Specialist     ECSO3
Oleksiy Balabushko         Economist                           ECSP4 Task Team Leader
Svetlana Budagovskaya      Senior Economist                    ECSP3
Mark S. Davis              N/A                                 N/A
Dmytro Derkatch            Communications Officer              ECCUA
Galina Diakova             Team Assistant                      ECCUA
                                                                     Task Team Leader
Sebastian Eckardt          Economist                           ECSP3
                                                                     (ICR)
Carlos D. C. Ferreira      Consultant                          ECSP4
Richard Gargrave           Senior Procurement Specialist       ECSOQ



                                           59
Elene Imnadze             Sr Public Sector Specialist          ECSP4
Yoko Kagawa               Operations Officer                   ECSP4
Vitaly Kazakov            N/A                                  N/A
Munawer Sultan Khwaja     Sr Public Sector Specialist          ECSP4 Task Team Leader
Tetyana Komashko          Program Assistant                    HDNHE
Maria Koreniako           Sr Program Asst.                     ECCUA
Tetiana Kopvalchuk        Temporary                            ECCUA
Galina S. Kuznetsova      Sr Financial Management Specialist   ECSO3
Yuliya Kuznetsova         Temporary                            ECCUA
Knut J. Leipold           Senior Procurement Specialist        ECSO2
Ofelia B. Miranda         Temporary                            MNAVP
Ganna Musakova            Senior Program Assistant             LCSHE
Craig R. Neal             Consultant                           MNSEG
Camille Anne Nuamah       Country Manager                      LCCNI
Pervaiz Rashid            N/A                                  N/A
Yuriy Savko               Operations Analyst                   ECCUA
Irina Shmeliova           Procurement Analyst                  ECSO2
Ireneusz M. Smolewski     Sr Procurement Specialist            ECSO2
Rajeev Kumar Swami        Sr Financial Management Specialist   ECSO3
Dolly Elizabeth Teju      Program Assistant                    ECSP4
Anna L Wielogorska        Senior Procurement Specialist        EASR1
Virginia S. Yates         Program Assistant                    ECSP4

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                               No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY98                           0.00                            69.54
FY99                           0.00                            220.66
FY00                           22.74                           55.49
FY01                           79.15                           185.75
FY02                           63.78                           140.29
FY03                           53.32                           149.15
FY04                           0.09                            5.32
FY05                           0.00                            0.00
FY06                           0.00                            0.00
FY07                           0.00                            0.00
FY08                           0.00                            0.00
FY09                           0.00                            0.00
FY10                           0.00                            0.00
FY12                           0.00                            0.00
FY13                           0.00                            0.00
Total:                         219.08                          826.20
Supervision/ICR
FY98                           0.00                            0.00
FY99                           0.00                            10.81
FY00                           10.19                           8.76



                                         60
FY01     0.00          0.00
FY02     0.00          0.00
FY03     0.00          0.00
FY04     41.73         131.15
FY05     28.77         81.66
FY06     17.41         102.21
FY07     27.41         152.44
FY08     28.10         108.62
FY09     25.53         85.50
FY10     27.46         102.46
FY11     29.57         108.05
FY12     23.27         90.49
FY13     3.54          17.49
Total:   262.98        996.64




                  61
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Beneficiary survey was conducted throughout the Project implementation. Target groups included
small companies (annual income up to 5 million UAH), midsize companies (annual income from 5
to 60 million UAH), big companies (annual income over 60 million UAH as well as registered
private enterprises. The survey was run in all the oblasts of the following six regions of Ukraine
were set: Kyiv City, Centre, North, East, South and West. Survey results were significantly affected
by the new Tax Code enacted in January, 2011. The first survey conducted immediately after
enactment of the Tax Code indicated significant deterioration of key performance indicators as both
taxpayers and tax agencies were still in the process of adjusting to the new legislation. The second
survey showed the improvement in most of indicators after the decline in 2011, though still not
returned to the 2009 level.

Figure 1. Indicator of voluntary tax compliance
in ’01-‘11
 110

 100
                                                        91.8
  90                               86.8   88.9
                                                 90.6    85.1
  80                                         81.6
                                 74.7
  70
                          69.2
                   66.0
  60
                59.5
         54.5
  50
       20012002200320042005200620072008200920102011



 Figure 2. Percentage of companies considering burdensome the cost of…                  The rate of
                                                                                        voluntary
                                                                                        tax
                                                                                        compliance
                                                                                        in 2011 was
                                                                                        highest
                                                                                        among the
                                                                                        small
                                                                                        businesses
                                                                                        (47.4%). It
                                                                                        was 41.3%
                                                                                        for large
                                                                                        companies,
                                                                                        indicating
                                                                                        the
                                                                                        decreasing
                                                                                        disparity
among different groups of companies as compared to 2010 (see Figure1). The tax compliance cost
indicator significantly improved, especially among small and large enterprises, in 2011 as compared
to 2010. The indicator of likelihood of detecting tax evasion remained at the same level, although
improvements were observed in the group of midsize and big enterprises (see Figure.2 below).

The quality of tax agencies performance indicator somewhat improved in 2011 as compared to 2010.
This was mostly due to the higher assessments given by private entrepreneurs and big companies, as
this indicator significantly deteriorated in the group of midsize enterprises. Implementation of the
new Tax Code triggered higher demand for the legislation clarification/interpretation among


                                                          62
taxpayers. Over 70% of respondents in all groups reported seeking the explanation from the tax
authorities. Electronic channels of information were reported as gaining more popularity among
enterprises, and private entrepreneurs also started using this channel in 2011, though the latter still
preferred a personal visit. The level of satisfaction with the quality of clarifications provided
improved slightly in 2011compaerd to 2010, though big and midsized enterprises appeared the most
dissatisfied.

         Figure 3. Percentage of companies positive about unambiguous legislation
         interpretation




In 2011 the taxpayers’ integrity indicator improved in 2011 compared to 2010, but remained
negative among all groups of respondents. This indicates the larger share of the respondents
believing that the impact of tax legislation and actions of tax agencies has become less positive and
smaller of those who believed that the impact has become more positive. Still, the indicator
improved among big enterprises and private entrepreneurs, but somewhat deteriorated among
midsize companies.


Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A formal stakeholder workshop was not carried out for this ICR. However, the ICR team had an
opportunity to discuss the project outcomes and lessons learned with the representatives of the
Public Collegium members and business association 6 . These stakeholders acknowledged the
following initiatives as an important step forward in improving tax administration in Ukraine: (i)
enactment of the new Tax Code, (ii) launching an e-filing system, (iii) induction of modern
technologies in the revenue administration, (iv) establishment of the Call Center, and (v)
introduction of risk based audit. The representatives, welcomed, the stated reorientation of the STS
from a fiscal agent to a service agency, though they noted that actual implementation of this


6
  These included UFPAA, a non-governmental self-regulatory professional organization of accountants and auditors
and the European Business Association representing about 900 European, Ukrainian and multinational companies
conducting business in Ukraine.




                                                       63
approach is falling short of the announced intention. The stakeholders also expressed serious
skepticism with regards to the public outreach efforts by the STS. While noting potential positive
effect of the public oversight mechanism initiated by the STS and currently being rolled out by the
Cabinet to other state agencies, the stakeholders expressed worries about mostly pro-forma nature
of its performance as the practice of policy decision making without sufficient prior consultations is
retained.




                                                 64
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




              STATE TAX SERVICE OF UKRAINE

       First Ukraine State Tax Service Modernization Project




             Project Implementation Summary Report
                               On
  the First Ukraine State Tax Service Modernization Project




                          Ukraine, Kyiv


                               2012


                                65
 І. Assessment of the Outcome of the Operation against the Agreed Objectives of the First
        Ukraine State Tax Service Modernization Project (hereinafter – the Project)


Rating: satisfactory (one of the major reasons for delay in the operation under the Project was
restructuring of the Project in 2005).
The Project objectives were to raise the level of voluntary tax compliance by taxpayers, to
establish partnership relations between the STS offices and taxpayers, to introduce standardized
and transparent forms and methods in taxpayer’s servicing, to computerize tax administration
processes. In general, these objectives were achieved. In particular, it is demonstrated by the
activities performed under the Detailed Action Plan of the Project.

The Tax Block and the Document Management information systems were created. They enable
us to extend significantly the range of services delivered to taxpayers, to simplify administration
system at all levels, to minimize taxpayers’ need in personal contacts with tax inspectors.

Innovation in creation of the Tax Block and the Document Management systems was the use of
up-to-date information technologies. For instance, user’s access to the systems is provided by the
‘thin client’ software tools through the WEB-browser, document and data processing is
centralized. Centralization gives us the ability to process information efficiently at the central
level, to receive the required data in on-line mode without making additional information requests
to the regional STS offices.

In order to introduce the above mentioned systems, the relevant infrastructure was deployed at the
central level, more specifically, the appropriate software and hardware suite was installed
and implemented on the basis of the high-tech equipment.

The Ukraine STS Call Center (the STS Contact Center Department) was created and brought
into operation. This call center renders unified consultancy services to taxpayers across the
country.

The Ukraine STS Research and Test Laboratory was established. It is intended to provide for
an experimental study of the issues related to integration of the available and potential equipment
into the single information system, to determine adaptability of the equipment to physical
peculiarities of communication channels, to develop and to test application software products, to
model information infrastructure of all STS levels, to test computing facilities, communication
equipment, standard software etc.

The level of provision of the regional STS offices with the present-day computer equipment was
raised, in particular, under the procurement ‘Information Infrastructure for Tax Reporting
Document Processing at the District Level’ 462 servers and 17,000 workstations of various
configurations were purchased and delivered to the STS offices all over the country.




                                               66
      ІІ. Evaluation of the Borrower (responsible executor – the STS of Ukraine) Own
  Performance during the Preparation and Implementation of the Operation, with Special
              Emphasis on Lessons Learned that May Be Helpful in the Future


Rating: satisfactory (one of the major reasons for delay in the operation under the Project was a
frequent change of the officials responsible for the Project implementation – senior managers,
executive managers, technical managers).
During the preparation and implementation of the Project, the STS of Ukraine developed the basic strategic
documents such as: Strategic and Detailed Action Plans; Procurement Plan and Financial Estimate;
Project Operations Manual; STS AIS Conceptual Architecture; General Model of the STS
Framework; Preliminary Model of Function-Based Framework; Draft Project for the Regional
STS Offices Consolidation; Concept of Operations which details the processes included in 19
segments of business and management operations of the STS offices; Top-Level Requirements
and Test Descriptions to the above segments, etc.

 The Personnel Management Concept of the STS of Ukraine for Years 2002 to 2010, the Concept
of the Remote Learning Implementation in the STS Personnel Qualification Development System,
the Concept of the STS Organizational Structure Improvement were developed and approved.

The Code of Professional Ethics for the employees of the STS of Ukraine was adopted. This
Code determines the rules (standards) of ethical conduct of the STS staff.

Ukraine joined the Intra-European Organization of Tax Administrations (ІОТ?), which
contributes to the more close and fruitful cooperation and also to sharing of the best practices
with the tax administrations of foreign countries in order to advance the tax reform and to
improve the effectiveness of Ukraine’s STS Offices’ performance.

There were taken efforts to establish and to support activities of the following groups:
       -          Interagency Working Group on Coordination and Supervision over the Project
                  implementation (Decree No. 631 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine dd.
                  May 13, 2004, as amended and supplemented);
       -          Oversight Panel (Decree No. 697 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine dd.
                  May 26, 2004, as amended and supplemented). Internationally-accepted
                  experts on tax and public administration were members of the Oversight Panel.

Both specialists of the STS of Ukraine and the STS Development and Modernization Department
underwent training in the following courses (programs):
       -Learning course on financial management system, loan disbursement and accounting
       (ILO International Training Center);
       -Training         in      computer-aided        project    management       facilities
        (H.A. Krychevskiy);
       -Learning course on procurement system (ILO International Training Center);
       -Learning course on business English for the project management group (First Kyiv
       Public Courses of Foreign Languages, Municipal Education Institution);
       -training in the Project administration and management (KVAZAR-MICRO TEKHNO,
       Closed Joint-Stock Company);
       -Training in business English (MANAGER Specialized Language Center, Limited
       Liability Company).




                                                  67
With the aim of technical training for the specialists of the STS of Ukraine and the STS
Development and Modernization Department, the employees underwent training under the
learning course for technical specialists on analytical and information system designing and
development (Borlas Ukraine Limited Liability Company).
The experience gained by Ukraine’s STS staff, in particular, by the specialists of the STS
Development and Modernization Department may be helpful in the future.

ІІІ. Evaluation of the Performance of the Bank during the Preparation and Implementation
of the Project, including the Effectiveness of their Relationships, with the Special Emphasis
                                   on the Lessons Learned
Rating: satisfactory (one of the major reasons for delay in the operation under the Project was a
long-continued approval by the WB of the bidding documents and reporting materials under the
Tax Block and the Document Management procurements).
Under the auspice of the World Bank during the preparation and implementation of the Project,
the STS of Ukraine received consultancy services by Barents Group LLC and DAI company, as
well as by the experienced advisors to the US Department of the Treasury under the State Tax
Service of Ukraine, particularly, by Mr. Alan Robidoux, Frank Jenkins, William Remington, as
well as by the temporary advisors. The Project documents were developed and the proper training
in the issues of the Project development and management was held in such close cooperation. As
a result, the Detailed Action Plan was drafted, whereby the activities on the Project
implementation were performed.

With the WB assistance there were obtained three grants from the Japanese government and the
advanced payment from the Loan out of the proceeds of the WB project preparation fund - PPF.

The STS of Ukraine maintained cooperation with the World Bank on the ongoing basis during the
whole period of the Project preparation and implementation. In order to evaluate the Project
implementation progress, the WB missions were held twice a year at the STS of Ukraine. During
such missions further activities were outlined in order to achieve the Project objectives. Based on
the findings of the missions, the World Bank submitted Aid-memoirs. According to these aid-
memoirs the relevant arrangements were prepared to fulfill the further activities under the Project,
which were approved by Orders of the STS of Ukraine.

The constructive dialogue and the transparency which was demonstrated during the Oversight
Panel missions helped to build a team spirit and to establish credibility between the World Bank
and the STS of Ukraine. A significant experience of the WB experts in project management, as
well as recommendations made under the above cooperation contributed to the improvement of
capability to manage the Project. The recommendations and the technical assistance rendered to
the STS of Ukraine, as well as discussions of the important issues relative to the Project
implementation, especially, with regards to IT, financial and administrative management of the
Project, played a key role when achieving the Project objectives.


            ІV. The Proposed Arrangements for Future Operation of the Project


The STS Development and Modernization Department proposed a number of activities (Draft of
the Preliminary Detailed Action Plan) for future operation of the Project in the following areas:




                                               68
1.      Computerization of business and administrative processes of the STS offices,
including function support and development of the Tax Block and the Document
Management systems.
2.       Up-growth of e-services on the basis of WEB-technologies as means of
interaction between taxpayers and the STS offices (implementation of the Automated
System ‘Taxpayer’s Electronic Cabinet’).
3.       Creation of analytical and information decision-support system.
4.       Establishment of a back-up center for tax data processing and storage.
5.       Improvement of Taxpayer’s Service Centers’ performance with regard to
administrative services rendered to taxpayers.
6.       Optimization of the STS framework, number of its offices and staff.
7.       Making arrangements on the scientific and technological performance of the STS
of Ukraine.




                                     69
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Comments by US Treasury Office of Technical Assistance: Between 2001 and 2011,
development of the STSMP was significantly aided by the US Treasury Office of Technical
Assistance (OTA). OTA assisted in the preparing the project proposals, the Operations Manual
and in the overall readiness of the STA to embark on modernization. It offered expert assistance
in the form of three resident advisors and multiple short-term experts supporting almost all
aspects of business process re-engineering, creation of the CONOPS documentation, which
formed the basis for manual and system requirements for modernization and in preparation of the
procurement strategy and tender documents. OTA also furnished one of the members of the
Oversight Panel contemplated under the Loan Agreement. Overall, OTA’s technical assistance
approached $3 million.

Comments were provided by William Remington, Associate Director, in charge of the Revenue
Advisory Program US Treasury - Office of Technical Assistance, on October 12, 2012.




                                              70
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
State Tax Service Modernization Project, Project Appraisal Document, World Bank, May
7, 2003

Diagnostic and Descriptive Note on Tax Policy and Administration Reforms in Ukraine, World
Bank, August 2002.

Policy Note: Ukraine: Tax Policy and Tax Administration, World Bank March 28, 2003

Aide Memoires State Tax Service Modernization Project, World Bank, various dates 2003-
2012.

Reports of the Oversight Panel of the State Tax Service Modernization Program, various
dates 2004-2012.

Final report regarding the taxpayer survey results and identification of key indicators of
progress achieved in the implementation of the Modernization Program for State Tax
Service of Ukraine-1 in 2010-2011; GfK UKRAINE, March 30, 2012




                                            71
72
           This map was produced by                                          25°E                                                                                           30°E                                                                 35°E
           the Map Design Unit of The
           World Bank. The boundaries,
           colors, denominations and
           any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                 Minsk                                                           USS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R US  S IA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I AN
           on this map do not imply, on
           the part of The World Bank                                                                                       BELA RUS                                                                                                         FE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             F   D E R AT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E DE    ATII ON
           Group, any judgment on the
           legal status of any territory,                                                                                                                    To
           or any endorsement or              To                                                                                                           Zhlobin
           acceptance of such                Warsaw                                                                                                                                                                                              To
           boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bryansk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UKRAINE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  na
                                                        North                                                                                                                                                 Des
                                    To                                                                                                                                                            Chernihiv
                                   Warsaw                                Kovel                                      Sarny                                                                                                                                                  To
               POLAND                                                                                                                                                                        CHERNIHIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Orel

                                                                  VOLYN
                                                            Buh


                                                                                                      RIVNE                                         Korosten                                                                SUMY Sumy
                                                                                                                                                                            Kyiv
                                                                      Luts'k                                                                                            Reservoir
                                                                                                        Rivne
                                                                                                                                      ZHYTOMYR
            50°N
                                                                                                                                                                                         KYIV                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Voronezh                           50°N
                        To                                                                                                                                                               (KIEV)                                                                                                                                      To
                      Tarnow                                                                                                          Zhytomyr                                                                                                                                                                                    Voronezh
                                                                                                                                                     D                                                 Dn

                                                                                                           KHMELNYTSKYI
                                                                                                           KHMELNY TSKY I
                                                   L'viv                                                                                                                                                                 PO LTAVA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         POLTAVA                                            Kharkiv
                                                                                                                                                         ni                      KYIV                       iep
                                                                                                                                                              ep                                                  er




                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dniep
                                                  LVIV                                 Ternopil'                                                                       er                                                Low
                                                                                                                                                                            Up                         r                                    Poltava
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KHAR KIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KHARKIV




                                                                                                                                                                                                        e
                                                                                                                            Khmel'nyts'kyi                                       lan                                             lan                                                                       LUHANSK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LUHA NSK
           SLOVAK                       Ca                            TERNOPIL                                                                                                           d    Cherkasy                                  d
           REPUBLIC                          rp                    Ivano-                                                                         Vinnytsya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kremenchug
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sieverodonetsk
                                                  at               Frankivs'k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Reservoir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Do                         one
                                                       hi                                                                                                                          CHERKA SY
                                                                                                                                                                                   CHERKASY                                                                                                net




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kremenchuk                                                                          ts
                                                            a IVANO-
                                                                                 ni                                                                                                                                                                                                              s B
                                                                             D




                                Uzhhorod                                              es
                                                             n                           te   r                                       VI NNYTSYA
                                                                                                                                      VINNYTSYA                                    Uman'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     asin                        Luhans'k
                                                            FRANKIVSK                                                                                 So
                                ZAKARPAT                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Dnipropetrovs'k
                                                                                                                                                           uth
                                                                                              Chernivtsi                                                                                                                                                                                 DONETSK
                                                                  M




                                              Hora Hoverla                                                                                                    Bu                                              Kirovohrad
                                                                                                                                                                   h
                                                                  tn




                                                 (2061 m)                                                                                                                                    KIROVOHRAD                                 DNIPROPETROVSK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DNIPROPET RO VSK                                                 Donets'k
           HUNGARY                                                       CHERNIVTSI
                                                                      s.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kryvyi Rih
                                                                                                                                 M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Zaporizhzhia
                                                                                                                                      O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Nykopol
                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                  MYKOLA?V
                                                                                                                                       LD




                                 Satu Mare                        25°E                                 To
                                                                                                  Tirgu Mures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kakhov
                                                                                                                                          OV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Reservoir




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             let
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mariupol
                                                                                                                                                                       OD ESSA
                                                                                                                                                                       ODESSA                                                                           ZAPORIZHZH IA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ZAPORIZHZHIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           hu
                             UKRA I N E                                                                                                                                                       Mykolayiv




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Melitopol
                                                                                                                                             A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Berdiansk
                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                         To                                                                                    Kherson
                                                                                                                             Birlad
                               OBLAST CAPITALS                                                                                                                                            Odessa                         KHERSON                                                   Sea
                               AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC CAPITAL
                                                                                                   ROMANIA                                                                                                                                                                          of                                R US S I AN
                               MUNICIPALITIES
                               (CITIES WITH SPECIAL STATUS)                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Azov                            F E DE R AT I ON
                                                                                                                             Tecuci
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Kerch
                               NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                   Izmail               Vilkova
                               RIVERS                                                                                To                                                                                                              CRIMEA                                                                                                  45°N
                                                                                                                  Buzau                                                                                            Yevpatoriia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Teodosiia                                                   To
                               MAIN ROADS                                                           45°N                                                                                                                                                                                                          Armavir
                                                                                                                                                                        Mouths of                                              Simferopol’
                               RAILROADS                                                                                                                                the Danube                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sevastopol                                                                                       Sochi
                               OBLAST BOUNDARIES                                                                                         To




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33505R
                                                                                                                                       Medgidia                                                                                                  Yalta            0       50       100       150 Kilometers
                               AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                 Blac k                     Sea
MAY 2009




                               BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0              50              100              150 Miles
                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                 30°E                                                                                 35°E
                                                                                                   BULGARIA
