Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE OnLY
.vA <i 77-7X7                4
Repoet No. 6957-AL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE DPMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJ.LCT
May 26, 1988
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department II - Maghreb
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This documet has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALEhTS
(as of December 1987)
Currency Unit             =             0inar (OA)
US$1.00                                 O =A S.0
DA 1.00                                 US$0.2
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ANEFP         Agence   Nationale  des  Equipements  Techniques  et  Pddagogiques  de  la
Formation Professionnelle
Nattonal Agency for Equipment Procurement
CAP1          Certificat d'Aptitude Professionnelle 1 (Niveau 0Q)
Vocational Training Certificate - Semi-SkAIled Level
CAP2          Certificat d'Aptitude Professionnelle 2 (Niveau OHO)
Vocational Training Certificate - Semi-Skilled Level
CFA           Centre de Formation Administrative
Adcinistrative Training Center
CFPI          Certificat de Formation Professionnelle I (Niveau OS)
Vocational Training Certificate - Skilled Level
CFP2          Certificat de Formation Professionnelle 2 (Niveau Meitrise/Technicien)
Vocational TraininS Certificate - Junior Technician Level
CFPA          Centre de Formation Professionnelle et d'Apprentissage
Vocational Training Center
CNEPC         Centre Nitional d'Enseignement par Correspondance
National Center for Correspondence Courses
CNFPHP        Centre National de Formation Proiessionnelle pour Handicapds Physiques
National Vocational Training Center for the Handicapped
CTP           Conseil Technique et Pedagogique
Technical and Pedagogical Committee
DIE           Direction des Infrastructures et des Equipements
Direction of Investment and Equipment
OOF           Direction de l'Organisation de la Formation
Direction of the Organization of Vocational Training
DPF           Direction des Programmes et des Formateurs
Direction of Programs and Instructors
ENSEP         Ecole Nationale Superieure de l'Enseignement Polytechnique
National Polytechnic Institute
IFP           Institut de Formation Professionnelle
instructor Training Institute
INDEFE        Institut National  de  Promotion  et  de  Developpement  de  la  Formation
Professionnelle en Entreprise et de l'Apprentissage
Natibnal Institute for  the  Prom-tion  and  Development  of  In-  Company
Training
INFP          Institut National de la Formation Professionnelle
National Institute of Vocational Trainirn
INGH          Institut National de G6nie Mdcanique
National Institute of Mechanical Engineer!ng
ITEEH         Institut de Technologie d'Entretien Electromecanique
Maintenance Training Institute
ITTPB         Institut de Technologie des Travaux Publics et du SAtiment
Construct1.6n Training Institute
HEF           Ministere de l'Education et de de la Formation
Ministry of Education and Training
NONE          Minist6re de l'Enseignement Superieur
Ministry of Higher Education
WTAS          Minist6re du Travail et des Affaires Sociales
Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
ONAHO         Office National de l'Emploi et de la Main d'Oeuvre
National Manpower Organization
ONS           Office National de la Statistique
National Office of Statistics
OTRAFORM      Office des Travaux d'Application de la Formation Professionnelle
Organization for the Development of Production Work in Vocational Training
PEP           Professeur de l'Enseignement Professionnel
Vocational Training Instructor
PSEP          Professeur Spdcialisd de l'Enseignement Professionnel
Instructor Trainer
TA            Technical Assistance
WILAYAtTE)    Provincial Governorate(s)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VOCATIONAL TRADINIG PROJECT
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
Basic Data
Country Data
Per Capita GNP         : US$  2,300  (1986)
Total Population       : 22.6 million (1986)
Population growth rate: 3.21 (1986)
Education (1985/86)
Enrollment              Enrollment Ratio1'
Total       Net2'          Gross    Net-    Female
Level                         ('000)     ('000)                             Net
Primary (grades 1-6)          3,481       3,199           92.12    84.6%   53.11
Basic Education (gr. 1-9)    4,881        4,127           89.8Z    75.91   52.1%
Secondary (grades 10-12)        493         222           27.91    14.61   13.2S
University                      172        N/A            N/A               N/A
Public Expenditures on Education - Recurrent (1986)
Ministry of National Education
as a X of total government budget:                       21.2%
Ministry of Higher Education
as a X of total government budget:                        5.2%
Ministry of Vocational Training and Laboi4r
as a 1 of total government budget:                        2.51
Total Education and Vocational Training
as a 2 of government recurrent budget:                   28.9%
Total Education and Vocational Training
as a 1 of GDP                                             5.81
1/ Total enrollments as percentage of population in relevant age group.
2/ Net enrollments equal total enrollments minus over-age students.
3/ In November 1937 the Ministry of Vocational Training and Labor became the
Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs. Vocational Training Institutions
were transfered to the Ministry of Education *nhich became the Ministry of
Education and Training.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VOCATIONAL TRAJNG PROJECT
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
LAn and Project Summary
Borrower              The Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
ALmount               US$54.0 million
Terms                 Fifteen years, including five years grace at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project Description    The  proposed  project  focuses  on  consolidating  and
improving the quality of Algeria's vocatioual training
system operated by the Ministries of Education and
Training (MEF) and the Ministry of Labor and Social
Affairs (MTAS).  The objectives of the proposed project
are: (a) to upgrade the network of existing training
institutions; (b) to imprcve the quality of vocational
training programs and enharce their relevance to labor
market needs; and (c) to strengthen the management of the
sy-tem,  control  costs  and  improve  financing.    The
proposed project would assist MEF in upgrading its
network of training institutions by providing training
equipment, technical books, consumable materials and
civil works for 57 Vocational Training Centers (CFPAs), 4
Instructor Training Institutes (IFPs) and the Maintenance
Training   Institute   (ITEEM).    These   are   priority
institutions where there is an urgent need to replace
obsolete training equipment. It would also help develop
key programs and services by providing expert services
and   fellowships   to   improve   the  effectiveness   of
in-service instructor training; to strengthen vocational
training programs through improved curriculum design and
instructional   materials   development;   to  develop  a
graduate employment monitoring system; to strengthen the
effectiveness of in-company training and to undertake a
study of the development of apprenticeship training.
Finally  the  proposed  project  would  focus  on  the
management and finances of the training system by
providing micro-computers, software and expert services
to   develop   a   computerized   system   for   equipment
procurement and maintenance; to develop a vocational
training management information system; to establish a
cost control and monitoring system; to improve the
effectiveness of in-service training for CFPA management
teams, and to undertake a study of the development
production in training institutions.
Benefits and Risks    Benefits from the proposed project are expected from: (a)
enhanced quality of training for some 6,000 trainees
enrolled annually in the courses supported by the project
in the 57 CFPAs, as well as 165 trainees in the four IFPs
and 165 trainees in the ITEEM. It would also improve the



- ii -
quality of instructors, curricula and instructional
materials  for  the whole network of  institutions;  (b)
improve labor market linkages through a systematic
application of Technical Pedagogical Committees and the
development of training activities in cooperation with
employers such as in-company training and apprenticeship
training; and (c) improve management and financial
control through the development of appropriate management
tools,  through  in-service  training of CFPA  management
teams   and   through  the  promotion  of  cost-recovery
mechanisms such as the production of items for salci in
training  institutions.   There  are  no  special  risks
associated with the proposed project, which is based on
improving the effectiveness of a well-established network
of  training  institutions.   Special attention has  been
given    to    project    coordination    an,   management
arrangements.   The Management Committee, established to
prepare the proposed project will be maintained to
monitor project implementation.   A Project Coordinator,
has been nominated to coordinate the work of the relevant
departments.  The equipment program, will be handled by
the  National  Agency  for  Procurement  of  Vocational
Training Equipment (ANEFP), which will receive assistance
under  the  proposed  project.   Early  preparation  work
undertaken by both MEF and MTAS has been good, and
project implementation is well advanced.
Estimated ProAect Costs
Local           Foreign           Total
--~~(US$ Million)- - 
A. Training Institutions           27.7              41.2              68.9
B. Programs and Services           12.4               3.2              15.6
C. Management and Financing         0.2               1.1               1.3
Total Baseline Costs            40.3              45.5             85.8
Physical Contingencies       4.1               4.4              8.5
Price Contingencies          2.9               4.1              7.0
Total Project Costs             47.3              54.0            101.3
Financing Plan
Government                         47.3                               47.3
IBRD                                                 54.0             54.0
Total                           47.3              54.0             101.3



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year   89       90       91      92       93      94       95      96
-        --(US$ Million)
Annual           3.0     2.3      8.8    13.7    14.8      9.8      1.1     0.5
Cummulative      3.0     5.3    14.1    27.8    42.6    52.4    53.5    54.0
Rate of Retu: Not Applicable



STAFF-APPRAISAL REPORT
VOCATIONAL TRAING PROJECT
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPTJBUC OF ALGERIA
Table of Contents                          Pages
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                                 (i)
L   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND VOCATIONAL TRAING                                1
Manpower Development and Employment                                       1
The Vocational Training System                                            2
Vocational Training Issues                                                4
- Expansion and Coordination                                         4
- Relevance to Labor Market Needs                                    6
- Quality of Training Programs                                       7
- Management of the System                                           8
- Cost Control and Finances                                          9
Government Education/Training Strategy and Bank Lending                  10
- Government Strategy                                               10
- Bank Lending Strategy                                             10
- Experience with past lending                                      11
IL  THE PROJECT                                                              13
Introduction                                                             13
Project Objectives and Scope                                             13
Training Institutiont;                                                   14
- Vocational Training Centers                                       14
- Instructor Training Institutes                                    15
- Maintenance Training Institute                                    15
Programs and Services                                                    16
- In-Service Training for Instructors                               16
- Curriculum Design and Instructional Materials Development    16
- Graduate Employment Monitoring                                    17
- In-Company Training                                               17
- Study of the Development of Apprenticeship Training               18
Management and Finances                                                  18
- Computerized System for Equipment Procurement
and Maintenance                                              18
- Vocational Training Management Information System                 18
- Cost Control and Monitoring                                       19
- Study of the Development of Production in CFPAs                   19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Algeria in July 1987. The mission comprised Messrs. B. Laporte (economist,
mission leader), 0. de Messieres (architect), J. Salmi (education planner),
M. Biget (vocational training specialist), R. Legrand (equipment specialist).



m. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, I1PLEMENTATION, AND DEM
Project Costs                                                                 20
- Summary of Oroject Costs                                                20
- Basis of Cost Estimates                                                 22
- Customs Duties and Taxes                                                22
- Contingency Allowances                                                  22
- Foreign Exchange Component                                              22
- Recurrent Costs                                                         22
Project Financing                                                             23
Management and Implementation                                                 23
- Management Structure                                                    23
- Implementation of the Project                                           23
Maintenance                                                                   24
Procurement                                                                   24
Technical Assistance                                                          26
Status of Preparation                                                         26
Disbursements                                                                 27
Special Account                                                               27
Accounts and Audits                                                           27
Tv. BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                        28
V. AGREEMENIS TO BE REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                                        29
Annexes
1.  Labor Market and Employment (Tables 1 through 8)                          30
2.  MEF Programs, Institutions and Enrollments                                33
3.  Enrollments and Graduates in CFPAs, by Specialization and Level           34
4.  Location of CFPAs Assisted in the Project                                 35
5.  Number of Training Places Reequipped in CFPAs by Specialization           37
6. Number of Training Places Reequipped, Enrollments
and Estimated Output                                                   38
7.  Education Sector Budget                                                   39
8.  Revenues Generated by Training Institutions                               40
9. Estimated Annual Recurrent Cost for a CFPA                                 41
Schedules
1.  Implementation Schedule                                                   42
2.  Technical Assistance Schedule                                             45
3.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursemnents                                      46
4.  Implementation Plan                                                       47
Charts
1.  Structure of the Education and Training Systew                            49
2.  Organization Chart of INFP                                                51
3. Organization Chart of ANEFP                                                52
bIlp Vocational Training Project (IBRD Reference No. 19952)



- 1 -
L ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING
Manpower Development and Employment
1.01     The  Algerian  economy  is  heavily  dependent  on  the  conditions
prevailing in oil and gas markets (more than 952 of total current foreign
exchange  revenues originating from hydrocarbon exports).  During the years
1980-85, Algeria achieved reasonable rates of growth (on average 4.52 p.a)
while minimizing its current account deficit. However, the weakening of the
world oil market during this period resulted in a virtual stagnation in
foreign exchange earnings since 1981 and In an increase in the debt service
ratio from 262 in 1980 to 33.82 in 1985. The Government rea,ted in a timely
fashion by  slowing down the growth of domestic expenditures, particularly
public sector investment, and by imposing restrictions on imports.
1.02     Until recently the economy was able to sustain a high rate of job
creation which onabled it to keep up with, and even exceed, the rapid growth
of the labor force1'.  Non-agricultural employment rose considerably  until
1984, reaching an average yearly growth rate of 6.12 between 1979 and 1984.
Non-agricultural unemployment was reduced almost by half, from 342 in 1969 to
192 in 1984.  During the 1974-77 Plan, the highest job creation rates were
recorded in construction and public works (212 annual growth) and in industry
(122).  More recently, between 1979 and 1984, the construction industry and
the government sector had the highest employment growth rate, 8.4% and 6.6%
respectively.    In  terms  of  sectoral  distribution  of  the  labor  force,
agriculture accounts at the present time for just 252 of total employment,
industry for 142, construction and public works for 162, government for 252,
trade and services for 16%. and transport for the remaining 4% . About half
of the employed workforce is employed in enterprises with more than 9
employees. The large majority work in public enterprises; even though the
share of the private sector has been increasing in the last years, it
represents only 72 of employment.
1.43     However,  the  economic  recession  which  followed  the  drop  in
hydrocarbon   prices   resulted  in  growing  unemployment:   non-agricultural
unemployment grew from 192 in 1984 to 232 in 1987. Only 121,700 jobs were
created in 1985 compared to an average yearly target of 185,000 during the
1985-1989 Five-Year Plan. The deficit was even larger in 1986 as the number
of additional jobs did not exceed 116,000.  The impact of the recession has
been particularly serious in the construction industry: while the rate of job
creation in that sector varied between 7 and 122 until 1984, it has not
exceeded 12 a year for the last three years. The unemployment situation has
been exarcebated by the rapid population growth (currently 3.22 per annum) and
the resulting increase of the labor force (3.82).
1/ Annex 1 (tables 1 through 8) provides the relevant statistical data on the
labor market and employment situation.



-2-
1.04     One of the most significant features of this growing unemployment
trend is youth unemployment. According to 1986 statistics from the National
Manpower Organization (ONMO), 572 of the unemployed population is less than
29 years of age whereas this age group represents only 45.62 of the total
labor force. The most recent figures from the 1986 population and manpower
survey done by the National Office of Statistics (ONS) indicate that as many
as half of the young people age 15-19 who arn not in school are without a
job. Moreover, it is becoming increasingly clear that unemployment is not
limited to the less educated segments of the workforce.  In 1983, 302 of the
unemployed had studied beyond primary education. In 1987, for the first time
in Algeria, some university graduates were unable to find a job directly and
registered with an employment agency. However, there is strong evidence that
work opportunities are better for young people with vocational skills.  The
1985 statistics from ONAMO show that, among the unemployed who were not able
to find a job through the employment agencies, only 2.5% were skilled as
opposed to 12.7% in the labor force.
1.05     In addition to these  global  quantititive  imbalances  the Algerian
labor market is still characterized by serious qualitative mismatches.  In
1986, only 311 of the job openings registered by employment agencies could be
filled, because of the lack of qualifications presented by applicants.  The
Algerian economy contitues to rely on a substantial number of foreign
technicians  in various  sectors.   In 1985, there were some 38,500 foreign
workers, mainly in the construction, inechanical, electrical and steel
industries, representing about 8.51 of tae total skilled labor force. The
1985-89  Development  Plan  emphasizes  t.e  continued  need  for  considerable
numbers of skilled workers and technicians.  If we exclude the construction
sector where the number of job offers not filled could be explained by the
lack of labor mobility, there are serious overall shortages (both for skilled
workers and technicians) in the steel industry, in mechanical and elec rical
industries, textile industries, as well as various trade and services
branches. However, in light of the reduced number of new jobs created and the
large training capacity developed over the past decade, the main objective for
the medium term is qualitative improvement of the vocational training system
rather than quantitative expansion. The proposed project focuses on improving
the  cost  effectiveness   of   the  existing  vocational   training   system
administrered hy the Ministry of Education and Training (MEF), which trains
skilled workers, as well as junior technicans.   It would also  assist  the
Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs (MTAS) in providing services Lo companies
which undertake their own training and in developping the apprenticeship
training system.
The Vocational Training System
1.06     Government's economic development strategy over the last 20 years has
called for urgent action to raise the skill and education attainment levels of
those entering the job market and of the work force in general; the need for a
better qualified work force was felt strongly, both for the traditional job
market and for new areas of economic development. This has resulted in the
very rapid development of the vocational training system, which today includes
about  700 training institutions enrolling some 170,000 trainees.   Although
considerable training programs are undertaken by the technical ministries
responsible for civil service and state enterprise employment in their
sectors, the main responsibility for pre-employment training aimed at



- 3 -
developing future skilled workers and junior techniciars in Algeria rests with
the Ministry of Education and Training (MEF). The main responsibility for
promoting the development of in-company training and apprenticeship training
rests with the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs (MTAS). The respective
role  of  these  two  ministries  was  redefined  in November  1987 when  all
vocational training institutions were transfered from the then Ministry of
Vocational Training and Labor to the Ministry of Education, which became the
Ministry of Education and Training.
1.07     Presently MEF provides pre-employment training in :ibout 100 trade
specializations in the industrial and services sector. There are four levels
of  training:   (a)  basic,  for  trainees  who  have  not  completed  primary
schooling,   (b)  semi-skilled  worker,   for   those  with  primary   scho3ol
certificates, (c) skilled worker, for those with 9 years of basic education
and (d) junior technician, for those with upper secondary education. With the
implementation of a compulsory 9-year basic education cycle for all Algerian
schoolchildren beginning in 1984, the first two levels of training are being
phased outl'. Finally MEF provides some training at the technician level in
some specific fields such as industrial maintenance and also trains
instructors for its own network of training institutions. (Annex 2)
1.08     As  far as vocational  training  is concerned,  MEF  is assisted by
various institutes. The National Institute of Vocational Training (INFP) is
responsible for all aspects related to research, curriculum design and
development, instructional material development, and provides in-service
training for various categories of teaching and administrative personnel. The
National Agency for Equipment Procurement (ANEFP) is responsible for equipment
procurement, installation and maintenance for all MEF training institutions.
Finally the Organization for the Development of Production Work in Vocational
Training  (OTRA7ORM)  organizes  and coordinates the production of goods and
services by  individual  training  institutions.   MTAS  is  also  assisted  by
institutes.  The Institute for the Development and Promotion of In-Company
Training and Apprenticeship (INDEFE) which was established in 1983 with Bank
assistance (Education V, Loan 1803-AL), is responsible for monitoring
in-company training in priority sectors, collecting and disseminating training
programs and know-how, providing direct assistance by training the training
department personnel in targeted enterprises and designing and implementing ad
hoc training programs. The National Center for Correspondence Courses (CNEPC)
created in 1984, provides two-year training courses in tertiary specialties
such as banking, insurance, accounting and computing; some 8.000 students were
registered in 1986.
1.09     MEF oversees % network of 282 Vocational Training Centers  (CFPAs)
located in 48 wilayate (or provincial governorates). Each VTC offers specific
training programs in relation to the manpower needs of their respective area.
The expansion of the CFPA network between 1981 and 19P6 has resulted in a 145S
increase in the number of trainees enrolled, which reached 68,600 in 1986.
The duration of courses varies between a few months and 2 years depending upon
trade specializations and competency levels. The CFPAs also provide 4 hours
theoretical training per week to rsome 71,000 apprentices who work in
1/ Chart 1 provides the structure of the eduation and training system in
general.



- 4 -
industrial enterprises. Training of instructors for the CFPAs is provided in
5 specialized Instructor Training Institutes (IFfs). These institutes recruit
secondary school students, or junior technicians with three years of
experience, or skilled workers with 5 years of experience and provide them
with training ranging from 1 year to 2 years. The training capacity of the
IFPs is approximately 1,300 training places. As the need for new instructors
decreases due to the stabilization of enrollments, the IFPs are expected to
devote themselves more to in-service training for existing instructors and
technician training.
1.10     Technician training is carried out in two specialized  institutes,
both located in Algiers, in some IFPs, as well as in a few CFPAs. The program
is open to candidates with at least three years of secondary education and
lasts 30 months, including a 6-month period of practical work in industry.
The Maintenance Training Institute (ITEEM) focuses on training technicians in
electrical and mechanical maintenance and enrolled some 750 students in 1986.
The Construction Training Institute (ITTPB) focuses on training technicians
for  the construction sector, and enrolled some 900 students in 1986.  In
addition, some 120 students were enrolled in a technician training program at
the IFPs in Annaba and Setif in 1986. Finally some 900 trainees were enrolled
in technician training programs provided in CFPAs during the same year.
Vocational Trainin Issues
1.11     MEF has made a major effort to establish a broad-based decentralized
network of CFPAs. The number of centers increased from 88 in 1981 to 282 in
1986. Many centers have been financed by a variety of donors with various
objectives and specifications, resulting in a patchwork of programs and
training philosophies conducted in facilitie-s of varying quality, often with
inadequate equipment and materials. An in-depth review of the vocational
training system, financed by UNDP and executed by ILO was completed in 1987.
Thi8 report"' concludes that there is now an urgent need to strengthen the
existing network of training inssitutions, to enhance the relevance of the
system to labor market needs, to improve the quality of training programs, to
improve the management of this decentralized structure and to control costs
and financing more closely.
1.12     Expansion and Coordination  The expansion of the vocational training
system, which began during the previous plan, is conceived as a crucial
element  to  support  national  economic  development  policies.   It  is  also
consistent with the Government policy of decentralization of authority and
execution of development programs, which increases considerably the demand for
skills at the wilaya level, including administrative, planning and management
capabilities. Vocational training has also an important social role to play
in the context of growing unemployment. Providing young school leavers with
work-related skills improves their employment prospects. Moreover, vocational
training programs combined with business start-up modules and availability of
loans can also contribute to employment generation by preparing for
self-employment in the service sector.
1/ Diagnostic des Systemes Formation/Emploi; Projet ALG/86/028



- 5 -
1.13     Detailed manpower projections were carried out for the preparation of
the Second Five-Year Plan  (1985-89).   Although these projections appear to
have been over-estimated, they showed that shortages of skilled workers and
technicians would persist as only 84% of the requirements were expected to be
mer during the Plan period.   According  to the Plan an additional  60,000
training places were to be created by MEF over the period.  It now appears
that the original Plan will not be implemented. The Government has already
decided to scale down the investment program. Only an estimated 3,500 new
training places will be created in 1988 by MEF. The Ministry now focuses on
an orderly expansion of the system and gives priority to the consolidation of
the existing network of training institutions. Even if we take into account
the slower economic growth and the poor employment performance of the last two
years, the demand for skilled manpower and technicians, estimated at 94,000
new jobs per year-L' would still be higher than the projected supply of
graduates.
1.14     However, more emphasis is now rightly being placed on improving the
cost effectiveness of the system and on the relevance of training programs to
the need of the economy. Areas of specialization which are in shortest supply
will be given priority. Training in maintenance is one area of specialization
repeatedly emphasized by employers as being crucial to their enterprises.
This is consistent with the results of the 1984 study prepared by the Ministry
of Heavy Industry on the manpower needs for industrial maintenance technicians
and  skilled  workers.    Among  the  other  major  industrial  occupations
characterized   by   skill   gaps   one   finds   electronics,   TV   repair,
electro-mechanics,  refrigeration and air conditioning, and textiles.  With
respect to the service sector, the major unmet need is to develop training in
computer and office skills and in tourism-related occupations. Finally, the
development of the agricultural sector in the southern regions has created
shortages of skills in farm machinery and hydraulics maintenance.
1.15     The upgrading of the training system also requires close cooperation
among the main providers of training (approximately twenty ministries are
involved).   As  shown  in  Table  1.1,  MEF vocational  training  institutions
provide 63% of the output at the level of skilled and semi-skilled workers,
the rest being provided by other technical ministries.  At the technician
level MEF provides 10% of the output in its vocational training programs and
44S in its technical ;raining programs.
1/ Bank estimate based on the actual number of new jobs created in 1986, i.e.
116,000.



- 6 -
Table 1.1: Output from Traini  Institutions In Aloeria in 1986
Skilled and         Junior and             TOTAL
Semi-skilled     Senior Technicians
MEF (Vocational Training)      32,690 (632)          3,220 (102)        35,910
MEF (Technical Education)           -               14,500 (44%)        14,500
Other Ministries               18,980 (372)         14,960 (462)        33,940
Total                          51,670               32,680              84,350
The various technical ministries have been working in relative isolation with
the result that information on manpower requirements and existing training
programs has not always been shared.   In 1977,  the National  Council  of
Vocational Training was created with a view to coordinate efforts in manpower
training and retraining and avoid duplication. Since then major efforts have
been made to improve coordination, and there is an irireasing trend toward the
integration of training activities between MEF and other ministries.
Individual ministries and wilayate are required to submit all new investment
proposals regarding the sector of vocational training to MEF and to the
Ministry of Planning for approval. Technical ministries increasingly turn to
MEF to conduct entry-level training, while they retain their own higher-level
specialized   training   activities.    The   proposed   project   focuses   on
strengthening and upgrading the existing network of training Institutions. A
total  of  266 workshops would be reequipped,  out of which  123 would be
converted to a different trade specialization.  Trade specializations to be
assisted  in  the  proposed  project  were selected after careful  review of
manpower needs by wilaya administrations and technical ministries (para. 2.06).
1.16     Relevance  to  the  labor market  needs:   MEF  has  been  primarily
concerned with the quantitative expansion of the system, and has not devoted
enough attention to strengthening labor market linkages. The recent creation
of Vocational Training Coordination Committees at the wilaya level is expected
to provide a regional forum to discuss key issues relative to the development
of vocational training and employment in the region. These committees include
the main regional employers as well as representatives from the wilaya
administration (Human Resources and Employment Divisions) and directors of the
various training institutions located in the wilaya. MEF is also in the
process of creating Technical and Pedagogical Committees (CTPs) attached to
each vocational training center (CFPA). Headed by a director and composed of
representatives from local companies, each CTP is a channel for receiving
feedback from employers on the relevance and quality of training. In order to
increase the links with the industrial sector and to enhance the relevance of
training programs to labor market needs, the Government confirmed at
negotiations that CTPs have been established in all CFPAs assisted in the
project.



- 7 -
1.17     The Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs  (MTAS),  which  is also
responsible for monitoring the employment situation, is in the process of
reorganizing its Manpower Office (ONAMO) and decentralizing its activities.
To this end, it would be necessary to train employment specialists in such
fields  as  labor  market  analysis  and employment  forecasts.   The proposed
project would finance fellowships to train employment specialists (para
2.14).   At  the same time,  very limited  information  is available on the
insertion of training program graduates into the labor market and their
subsequent performance. There is an urgent need for monitoring employment of
vocational training graduates and assessing their performance on the job, in
order  to provide  feedback  to MEF management.  The proposed project would
provide technical assistance to set up a permanent graduate employment
monitoring system (para 2.14).
1.18     MTAS also develops links with industries through the Institute for
the Promotion and Development of in-Company Training and Apprenticeship
(INDEFE).   This  Institute,  created  with  Bank  assistance  in  1983  (Loan
1803-AL), is the Ministry's main vehicle for providing assistance to companies
which undertake their own training. The main work of INDEFE in this respect
has been to assist in the creation of training units, to design training
programs and methodologies, to train the companies' training officers and, in
general, to promote in-company training through the diffusion of information.
INDEFE's interventions cover various sectors including heavy and light
industries, petrochemical industries, utilities and services. With the recent
relocation of the Institute at Rouibas, the largest industrial area outside
Algiers, INDEFE is expected to provide extension services to a large number of
sectors and companies. However, INDEFE needs to strengthen its programs and
services in order to gradually improve its capacity to serve industries. The
proposed project would finance technical assistance to improve the quality of
INDEFE's training extension services to industries and to upgrade its staff
(para. 2.15).
1.19     Finally, the apprenticeship training system, under the responsability
of MTAS, also provides strong linkages with the industrial edvironment. There
is a long tradition of apprenticeship training in Algeria. However, until
recently, this training took place mainly in an unregulated fashion with
apprentices   receiving   virtually  no   theoretical   training.    With   the
Apprenticeship Training Law (No. 81.07 enacted in 1981) a more comprehensive
and better-structured apprenticeship system was introduced.  Apprenticeship
training is a priority for the Government and the number of apprentices
increased from approximately 31,000 in 1981 to 71,000 in 1986. There is,
however, a growing recognition that both the structure and organization of
apprenticeship training and the content of programs need to be reexamined.
The proposed project would finance an in-depth review of the apprenticeship
training system (para 2.16).
1.20     Quality of Training Programs:   The Government has  so far placed
priority on the physical expansion of the vocational training system.  In
order to meet the demand for new instructors, MEF recruited some 4,000 people
and trained them in its own instructor training institutes (IFPs) between 1983
and 1986.  However, the level of candidates accepted in these programs has
generally been low (secondary school leavers and CFPA graduates) and the



- 8 -
quality of training provided deficient. MEF is now facing a situation where
the vast majority of the existing instructors needs to be retrained. There is
no major problem in attracting and retaining instructors since salaries
offered are similar  to those offered  in  industry.   In  the  new  status,
currently being introduced, instructors will be recruited at the level of
technician.   In  addition,  existing  instructors  will  undergo  a  one-month
intensive skills upgrading course in one of the 5 IFPs or in selected CFPAs.
This will be complemented by correspondence courses in general subjects
provided by CNEPC, as well as internships in industrial production units. In
order to efficiently upgrade the instructors, MEF needs to design an improved
system of continuous in-service training and to train instructor trainers to
use new and improved pedagogical methods. In 1986 the Ministry )rganized 24
skills upgrading courses for a total of 550 instructors. Under the proposed
project a large in service-training effort would be developed (para 2.11).
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the number of
instructors receiving in-service training every year will increase to reach
one third of the teaching force by 1992 (para. 5.01).
1.21     A related issue is the quality and appropriateness of the vocational
training programs themselves.   The structure of programs and the curricula
currently in use need to be updated and redesigned. At the same time there is
a need to design new programs for the new trade specializations which will be
introduced. INFP is in the process of revising these programs, but INFP staff
need to upgrade and update their own knowledge and skills in all aspects of
program design. The INFP also has the responsibility for creating, printing
and dispatching instructional materials. The quality of most instructional
materials, such as instructor's guides and trainees' technical notes, is
deficient. Modern textbooks specifically designed for vocational training are
not sufficiently available and other printed materials need to be redesigned
to  suit  learners'  initial  comprehension  levels.   INFP  needs  to  acquire
computer-assisted design (CAD) equipment, as well as printing equipment, in
order to improve the quality of instructional material.s. Similarly, in order
to facilitate access to current technical literature for both instructors and
trainees, the majority of training institutions needs to set up adequate
technical  libraries.   The  proposed  project  would  finance  equipment  and
technical assistance to develop new and improved instructional materials
(para. 2.13).
1.22     Finally, vocational training programs are often hampered by the lack
of equipment in training institutions. Most of the equipment in the oldest
CFPAs is obsolete, while in a number of recently established centers,
equipment is still incomplete. The highest priority regarding MEF equipment
program  is  now  to reequip some  266 workshops  in the oldest  r!FPAs.   In
addition, some IFPs do not have the full range of training equipment required
and they often borrow equipment from surrounding CFPAs. Finally, the ITEEM
operates  with a  limited range of equipment.   The proposed project would
address the most pressing needs by providing equipment, tools and consumable
materials and technical books to 57 CFPAs, four out five IFPs and the ITEEM
(paras.  2.04  through 2.09).   In light of  the present lack of consumable
materials (the budgetary norm of 10% of a typical CFPA budget is not always
respected) MEF has agreed to increase the level of financing of consumable
materials  in  the  CFPAs  assisted  in  the  project.    Local  financing,
corresponding to two training cycles for all programs assisted, is being
provided through the project.



- 9 -
1.23     Management of the System:  There is a need to improve the overall
management of the vocational training system and in particular the procurement
and maintenance of equipment for the CFPA rnetwork. The newly created National
Agency for Equipment Procurement (ANEFP) is expected to facilitate the
procurement of training equipment for the CFPA network and its maintenance.
However, this process involves 100 trade specializations and 282 CFPAs located
in 48 wilayate and requires careful planning and monitoring.   In order to
provide MEF with accurate information on the status of equipment in individual
CFPAs, maintenance requirements and the availability of spare parts, a
procurement  information system needs  to be established.   Another area of
management which requires attention is the availability of a reliable
management information system to monitor the deployment and the performance of
instructors,  trainees and programs.   INFP,  which presently supervises  the
vocational training system from the pedagogical point of view, intends to
establish such a syst 2. Finally MEF does not have at the moment reliable
information on unit costs for various types of training programs. This is
also an essential management tool which will need  to be developed.   The
proposed project would finance computer equipment, software and expert
services to assist ANEFP and INFP in developing a computerized procurement
system, a vocational training management information system and a cost control
monitoring system (paras. 2.17 through 2.20).
1.24     In order to meet the demand for administrative staff and managers for
the expanded CFPA network, MEF has had to recruit for these positions from
among  its  senior  training  personnel.    In  some   cases,   training   in
administration and finance has been provided, but the majority of CFPA
managers lack both the skills and experience to perform their tasks
efficiently.  There is therefore a need to provide in-service training for
CFPA management teams (directors and administrative assistants).   In-service
training programs for this category of personnel, also provided by INFP, need
to be redesigned to emphasize cost control, maintenance of physical plant, and
management of production activities. The proposed project would also finance
expert services to design appropriate training seminars for all CFPA
management teams (para 2.20).
1.25     Cost  Control  and  Finances:   The  expansion  of  the  network  of
vocational training centers has resulted in increasing budgetary outlays
(Annex  7).   The  annual  budgetary  allocation  to  MEF  vocational  training
institutions has more than doubled since 1983 to reach an estimated DA 1.4
billion  (US$280 million).   Recurrent  costs  in skilled vocational  training
programs are high compared to other countries in the region - DA 11,000 or
US$2,200 per training place and per year (Annex 9).  In light of the present
budgetary constraints, it is unlikely that MEF will be in a position to
increase its Vocational Training budget significantly beyond the current
level. Moreover, the Ministry will have to correct some of the imbalances in
resource allocation, such as the limited amount of money now devoted to
consumable materials and maintenance. This points out the need to control
costs, improve efficiency and to effect internal reallocations. Steps have
already been taken to that effect. The double shift system has been introduced
and 12% of workshops ale now operating under this system. Boarding places in
CFPAs are now limited to centers in small towns and to a ratio of 120 boarding
places for 450 training places. In addition, the present policy of providing
stipends to trainees, currently DA 240/month (US$48/month), is now under
review and measures will be taken to reduce these expenditures.



- 10 -
1.26     The Ministry  is also aware of  the  need  to  mobilize  additional
financial resources outside the Government budget. At present, an estimated
amount of DA 41 million (US$8 million), or 2.71 of annual budgetary allocation
to MEF vocational training institutions, is generated by training institutiovs
by charging minor fees for food, printed materials, and sometimes tuition
(Annex 8).  In addition, a number of training institutions sell goods and
services  to  the  public  and  to  various  state  enterprises.   A  special
organization (OTRAPORM) has been created in 1982 to organize and coordinate
production activities  in MEF training  institutions.   Induswtial  companies
subcontract the production of specific items to OTRAFORM which selects a
training institution and provides the consumable ma.erials and, in some cases,
the equipment necessary for the production of these items. The sale of items
produced in 1986 amounted to DA 26 million (US$5 million) or an additional 2%
of the annual budgetary allocation to MEF vocational training institutions.
MEF would like to further develop this system, both to expose trainees to
production processes and to offset part of the cost of training. Also, these
activities generate much-needed raw materials and other working capital which
is often a severe constraint even when overall budgetary allocations are
adequate  (para.  1.25).   Recently,  a 5-year  contract  has  been  signed  by
OTRAFORM and 20 public sector companies to manufacture small parts for a total
amount of DA 230 million (or US$46 million). A careful review of the system,
in its economic and financial dimensions will be necessary in order to assist
MEF in planning future developments. At the same time it will be necessary to
set the appropriate safeguards to avoid production activities becoming
detrimental to learning achievement.   The proposed project would finance a
study of the development of production in CFPA (para. 2.21).
Governmaent EducationfTraining Stratery and Bank Lending
1.27     Government Strategy.  The national education and training system is
regarded as the main instrument to provide the range of skills required to
realize economic and employment objectives and at the same time create and
serve a unified society. Government strategy in the education/training sector
is broadly aimed at:
-    maintaining a quality basic education program (grades 1 - Q) for
all children;
-    expanding secondary education (principally through the Technicums
or technical secondary schools) to enroll all students who qualify
for further general education;
-    developing basic training and apprenticeship schemes linked to the
state enterprises to accomodate those students who do not reach
secondary education entrance stand"rds;
-    completing University infrastructure and improving  control  over
admissions programs, and faculty development and establishing
internal evaluation/assessment systems.
-    developing and maintaining sectoral and enterprise-level training
capacity, with priority to industry and agriculture.



- 11 -
The Government manpower development strategy is (i) to improve the linkages
between training programs and labor market needs and provide greater
opportunities for self employment; (ii) to upgrade and consolidate existing
training infrastructure at all levels; (iii) to develop an institutional
capacity  for  providing  flexible,  high  quality  cost-effective  training
programs, responsive to labor market demands.
1.28     Bank LendinR Strategy.  The Bank in general supports the government
strategy, particularly with regard to priority manpower development programs.
However, it considers that a rationalization of higher education is also
necessary in order to ensure that admission to University is kept in line with
the needs of the economy and that costs are being controlled. The Bank also
considers that the provision of technical education in the technicum program,
which has recently been elevated to baccalaureate level, carries the risk of
creating an unanticipated surge in demand for longer duration courses in
engineering faculties and post secondary technical institutes, rather than
meeting urgent labor market needs for middle level technical manpower.
Finally the Bank considers that the development of skilled training programs
administered by MEF should not be mainly driven by the supply of grade 9
leavers who do not reach secondary education entrance standards but rather be
tightly linked to the need of the economy and especially the potential for
non-wage employment.
1.29     The main objective of Bank lending in Algeria in the education and
training sector is to assist current economic reforms through quantitative and
qualitative improvements in the supply of skilled manpower.   The strategy
calls for upgrading and consolidating training programs for skilled workers
and junior technicians and for developing training programs for engineers and
senior technicians better adapted to industry. The Bank has not developed any
new lending activities directly in the education and training sector over the
past few years. However, it has provided assistance to various sectors (in
particular infrastructure development) through ongoing Project Related
Training activities.  The proposed Vocational Training Project,  is a first
step toward opening a broader dialogue and focuses on qualitative improvement
of the existing vocational training system, at the level of skilled workers
and  junior  technicians.   Future  lending  in  vocational  training  will
increasingly focus on the development of cooperative training schemes with
employers under cost sharing arrangements. Some activities included in the
proposed project, such as the study of the development of apprenticeship
training,  the study of  production work  in training  institutions  and  the
development of in-company training will provide a basis for future activities
in the sector.  The Bank will also assist other  levels  (technicians and
engineers) by assiting the scientific and technological research education and
training subsector and by paying increasing attention to project related
training activities.
1.30     Experience with past lending.  Bank lending in Algeria has so far
placed emphasis on the development and reform of technical education and
sector specific vocational and professional training to assist the government
in: (i) meeting urgent manpower needs for management/professional staff and
higher technicians, (ii) replacing expatriate professionals employed, and
(iii) supplying much needed middle level technicians and skilled workers in
key sectors.



- 12 -
1.31    The government has been assisted by five Bank-financed education
projects: Loan 913-AL (1973) of US$6.0 million, Loan 1209-AL (1976) of
US$47.0 million, Loan 1378-AL (1977) of US$48.5 million, Loan 1595-AL (1978)
of US$90 million and Loan 1803-AL (1980) of US$87.0 million. Administrative
and   technical   difficulties   including   major   changes   in  ministerial
responsibilities, lack of absorptive capacity, lack of commitment to project
design, and lack of expertise in Bank procurement, led to a very significant
but necessary scaling-down of the sector portfolio in 1983-1985. With the
recent closing of the account for the Fifth Education Project, all projects
are now completed and Project Completion Reports (PCR) have been issued for
the first four projects. A Project Completion Report is being prepared for
the last one.
1.32     The  First  Project  helped  develop  the  Agronomic  Institute  of
Mostaganem and  the Algerian  Institute of  Petroleum.   The  Second  Project
focused on the development of a technician and engineer training institute for
electronics.   An existing institute was reequipped  and  a  new  curriculum
implemented.  The completion report found the results satisfactory and the
original project design well-justified.  The Third Project focused on  the
creation of seven Technicums (technical secondary schools), but due to major
construction   problems,   the   Bank   ultimately   financed   equipment   for
government-financed  Technicums  only.  The Fourth Education Project helped
finance the construction of the Instructor Training Institute (IFP) in Annaba,
the extension of the Polytechnic Institute (ENSEP) in Oran and the provision
of  equipment  and  fellowships  for  the  National  Tnstitute  of  Mechanical
Engineering (INGM). The Fifth Project aimed at the creation of Maintenance
Training Centers and Industrial Training Center under the Ministry of Light
Industries.  It was reappraised in 1982 when this Ministry withdrew from the
project, and its scope significantly reduced to finance the creation of the
Institute for the Promotion and Development of in-Company Training (INDEFE).
The reappraised project has been implemented satisfactorily.
1.33     Lessons learned from past  lending have been  incorporated  in the
proposed project. The project completion reports and related PPARs emphasized
the need for: li) assigning the administration of the loan and, when possible,
the management of the project to a single and stable entity, with the leverage
to resolve issues promptly and the necessary resources for monitoring
implementation; (ii) providing adequate preparation, including extensive
advance   training   to   local   staff   for   decentralization   of   project
responsibilities.   In  the  proposed  project,  MEF  would  have  the  main
"esponsibility for its implementation. In preparing the proposed project MEF
c!ficials have emphasized local officials' involvement. The CFPA directors
t ether with wilaya officials have carefully selected the institutions and
'a  'rade specializations to be assisted, on the basis of regional and local
manpovkr needs (para 2.05). Lack of project implementation coordination was
also cifed as a weakness of previous projects. Under the proposed project a
full time coordinator, assisted by an implementation team will ensure
day-to-day management of the project as well as the administration of the
project (para 3.10).



- 13 -
IL THE PROJECT
Introdgction
2.01     The proposed project was prepared by the Government following a Bank
project  identification mission  in November  1986.   The Bank  reached broad
agreement with the Government on the scope and content of the proposed project
during a preparation mission in March 1987 followed by an appraisal mission in
July 1987.
Prolect Ob&ectives and ScoPe
2.02     The objectives of the proposed project are:
(a) to upgrade the network of existing training institutions.
(b) to improve the quality of vocational training programs and enhance
their relevance to labor market needs.
(c) to strenigthen the management of the system, control costs and improve
financing.
2.03     To achieve these objectives the proposed project would include the
following components:
(a) Training  Institutions:   Provision of training equipment, technical
books,  consumable  materials  and  civil  works  for  MEF  training
institutions:   57 Vocational Training Centers (CFPAs), 4 Instructor
Training Institutes (IFPs) and the Maintenance Training Institute
(ITEEM).
(b) Programs and services: Provision of expert services and fellowships
to M4EF to improve the effectiveness of in-service instructor
training; to strengthen vocational training programs through improved
curriculum design and instructional materials development; to develop
a  graduate  employment  monitoring  system.   Provision  of  expert
services and fellowships to MTAS to strengthen the effectiveness of
in-company training; and to undertake a study of the development of
apprenticeship training.
(c) Management and Finances: Provision of micro-computers, software and
expert services to MEF to develop a computerized system for equipment
procurement and maintenance; to develop a vocational training
management information system; to establish a cost control and
monitoring system; to improve the effectiveness of in-service
training for CFPA management teams, and to undertake a study of the
development of production in CFPAs.



- 14 -
Tn3!R!g istitutions
2.04     To upgrade  the network of existing  training institutions  and to
improve the quality of training, the project would provide refurbishment,
training equipment, technical books and consumable materials to 57 CFPAs,
4 IFPs and the ITEEM. The number of existing training places to be reequipped
through the project is given in Table 2.1:
Table 2.1: Prolect Tralnin Places and Estimated Annual OutIut
Number of  Number of Places       Estimated Annual
Institution       Grade      Worksnops        Reequipped             Output
57 CFPAs          10-11          266            5,370                 3,200
4 IFPs           13-14           11              165                    75
1 ITEEM          13-14           11              165                    60
Source: Annex 6
2.05     Vocational  Training  Centers  (C7PAs)   The  proposed  project  would
finance the reequipping and minor refurbishing of 57 CFPAs, among the oldest.
They represent priority institutions where there is an urgent need to replace
obsolete training equipment. These 57 CFPAs (see map) were selected by MEF
with assistance from the Human Resources Divisions in wilara administrations.
The decision to maintain existing trade specialization or to convert workshops
for new specialization has been made on the basis of employment opportunities
and prospects in the wilayate.   The CFPAs are designed to provide skilled
training programs, of 12 to 18 months duration, for people with 9 years of
basic education and junior technician training programs averaging 24 months
duration, for people with 3 years of secondary education. Most enrollments
are in industrial specializations (56S), while 262 are in construction, 13% in
office skills and 5S in various crafts and services.  Approximately 122 of
CFPAs  workshops  operate  under  a double-shift system.   The CFPA  training
programs are well-subscribed:   there are four times as many applicants as
training positions. Candidates are selected on the basis of entrance exams
administered in the centers. The number of females in CFPA training programs
represent 282 of total enrollments and is rising.  In some specializations
(typing, office technology, garment making), the majority of students is
female and their proportion in other trades such as electronics in steadily
increasing. On average, programs devote 80% of the time to practical work and
20% to relevant theory. The ratio of instructors to trainees is about 1 to
20. Some 4,600 instructors teach in the CFPA network (including instructors
for the apprenticeship training system).
2.06     A total of 266 workshops would be assisted in the project, of which
123 would be  converted  to a  different  trade  specialization.   All  these
workshops need some repair and improvement such as roofing, water proofing,
and painting. A detailed assessment of this work has been completed by the



- 15 -
wilayate  with  assistance  from  the Direction of  Investment  and Equipment
(DIE). All these workshops would receive training equipment and an initial
stock  of  consumable  materials  corresponding  to two  training cycles.   In
addition, the 57 CFPAs would receive technical books. Altogether 12 groups of
specializations would be assisted in the project representing about 45 trades
(Annex 5). The majority of these trades are in industrial areas (metal work,
mechanical trades, mechanical maintenance, electricity and electronics); the
rest are in various construction and service trades. This reequipment program
emphasizes mechanical and electrical maintenance skills which are in short
supply in Algeria as well as specific trades such as plumbing, air
conditioning, refrigeration, office technology where the demand is high.  The
number of training places in the workshops assisted in the project is about
5,370.    Estimated  annual  output  from  project  institutions  would  be
approximately 3,200 (Annex 6).
2.07     Instructor Training Institutes (IFPs)   The  proposed  project would
finance some additional equipment for 4 out of 5 IFPs located in Annaba,
Medea, Bir Khadem and Sidi Bel-Abbes. The last IFP located at Setif is fully
equipped.   These recently created institutions do not have as yet the full
range of training equipment. The IFPs are designed to train instructors for
the network of CFPAs.   Training programs  of  1 to  2 years, according to
specializations, are open to students who have completed secondary education
or CFPA graduates with five years of professional experience. The demand for
instructor training programs is very high - on average three applicants for
one training position. All IFPs are specialized: M6dea in mechanical trades,
Annaba in metal work, Sidi-Bel-Abbes in electric and electronic trades,
Bir Khadem in services, Setif in construction. The number of women in the
IFPs represent approximately 15% of total enrollments, with the majority
enrolled at the IFP in Bir Khadem. Training programs consist of theory (70%
of the time) and relevant practical work (30X of the time).  The ratio of
instructors to trainees is about 1 to 15 which is normal for this type of
training. A total of 90 instructor trainers (PSEP) teach in the 5 IFPs.
2.08     The faur IFPs assisted in the proposed project would receive audio
visual equipment, printing equipment, micro computers, and technical books.
In addition the IFPs in M6dea and Annaba would receive training equipment for
7 and 4 workshops respectively. These workshops operate with a limited range
of original equipment, and some complementary equipment was obtained from
surrounding CFPAs.  While the IFP of Annaba operates in new buildings, the IFP
of Medea operates on the premises of an existing CFPA. Necessary repairs and
improvements would also be financed to complete the reconversion of this
institution.   In addition, all 4 IFPs would receive technical books.  The
number of training places in the 11 workshops assisted in the IFPs of Annaba
and M6dea would be 165, and estimated annual output would be about 75 per year
(Annex 6).
2.09     Maintenance Training Institute  The proposed project would finance
the reequipping of the Maintenance Training Institute (ITEEM) located in
Algiers.   This institute,  created in 1970, provides trainingiretraining for
higher-level industrial maintenance technicians in specific fields such as
mechanical  and electro-mechanical.   A  total  of 750 trainees  (of which 32
females) are currently enrolled at ITEEM, of which 280 are boarders.   The



- 16 -
institute is open to candidates with three years of secondary education in
mathematics or technical fields. The duration of the training program is 30
months - 24 months spent at the institute, followed by a 6-month period of
practical work in industry. The ratio of applicants to training places is
about 10 to one. The ratio of instructors to trainees is 1 to 15 which is
adequate for this type of training. A total of 50 instructors teach at the
ITEEH. The output of the institute was 231 graduates in 1986. The proposed
project would refurbish and reequip 11 workshops, where the majority of the
equipment is obsolete. At the same time, the project would finance an initial
stock of materials and technical books which are very much needed in this
institute.  The number of training places assisted in the project is 165 and
estimated output would be about 60 per year (Annex 6).
,Pr!M   and Servces
2.10     To  improve  the  quality  of  vocational  training  and  enhance  its
relevance to the labor market needs the proposed project would assist MEF and
MTAS to develop a number of programs and services related to in-service
training   for   instructors,   curriculum  design,   instructional   materials
development, monitoring of graduate employment, development of in-company
training and of the apprenticeship training system. The main responsibility
for carrying out this program would rest with the National Institute of
Vocational Training  (INFP) under  the responsibility of MEF.  All  aspects
related to in-company training and apprenticeship training would be carried
out by the Institute for the Promotion and Development of In-Company Training
(INDEFE) under the responsibility of MTAS.
2.11     In-service  Training  for  Instructors   A  critical  factor  in  the
development of vocational training programs is MEF's capacity to provide
regular and systematic in-service training to instructors. The vast majority
of instructors need significant upgrading and the Ministry intends to set up a
massive in-service training program (para 1.20). The proposed project would
provide technical assistance to design an improved program of in-service
training for instructors and to enhance the skills of existing instructor
trainers. This improved system of in-service training would be developed at
INFP, by a core group of instructor trainers (PSEP) who would then train all
other PSEP in the system.   In-service training would be organized in each
trade specialization in the IFPs or selected CFPAs.   In order to upgrade,
organize and coordinate in-service instructor training courses, the proposed
project  would  provide  16 months  of  expert services.   As part of  their
responsibilities experts would train INFP staff.  In addition,  the proposed
project would provide 18 months of rellowships for short-term duration, very
specific training in skills which do not exist in Algeria.   The proposed
project would also cover the cost of in-service training allowing a
progressive increase in the number of participants to 1,600, or one third of
the teaching force every year, by 1992.
2.12     Curriculum Design and Instructional Materials Development  In order
to keep training programs abreast of changing technology, their structure and
content  need  to  be  periodically  reviewed and  revised.   The majority of
curricula needs to be updated and redesigned to conform to the job profiles
currently in use in the economy (para. 1.21). In addition, new curricula need



- 17 -
to be designed for courses which will be introduced. MEF also intends to
develop a training module designed to assist trainees who want to start up
small  businesses.   INFP  which  is  responsible  for  all  these  curriculuu
development activities relies on a core group of specialists. The proposed
project would finance 12 months of expert services to train INFP staff in
program design and to develop appropriate methodologies to update and upgrade
training programs. In addition, the proposed project would finance 6 months
of expert services to assist the National Center for Corresponlence Coturses
(CNEPC) in developing programs which inter alia would be used for upgrading
the general education level of instructors (para. 1.20).
2.13     The proposed project would also assist INFP in developing new and
improved  instructional  materials,  for  the  whole  network  of  training
institutions it supervises. This would be done by a multidisciplinary team of
INFP staff who would be responsible for designing and producing instructional
materials  using computer-assisted design equipment.   These documents would
then be printed at INFP and dispatched to the 5 IFPs which would in turn be
responsible for the duplication and distribution to all CFPAs. The proposed
project would finance computer assisted design equipment and printing
equipment for INFP as well as 12 months of expert services to train and assist
INFP staff in the design and production of instructional materials and in
managing instructional material libraries. The INFP also intends to develop
audio visual learning materials for both the IFPs and the CFPAs. The proposed
project would finance some complementary audio-visual equipment for the INFP
and 6 months of expert services in order to assist INFP staff in developing
methodologies for the design and production of audio visual learning
materials. Finally, the proposed project would finance technical books and a
set of standard tests for the development of vocational guidance activities at
INFP.
2.14     Graduate  Employment  Monitoring  System   A  key  aspect  in  the
development of a flexible and responsive vocational training system is the
necessity to have immediate access to information concerning graduate
employment and their career performance (para 1.17). A methodology would be
developed by INFP staff to conduct periodic reviews and assess the extent to
which CFPA graduates are successful in gaining employment in their area of
specialization, their performance on the job and in general the sources of
manpower supply  in the main  public and private  companies.   The proposed
project would finance 6 mcaths of expert services to assist INFP in setting-up
a permanent graduate employment monitoring system.  The proposed project would
also finance 24 months of fellowships to train MTAS employment specialists,
who will be needed for the development of a labor market information system
(para 1.17).
2.15     In-Company Training  Despite its achievements in the past few years,
the Institute for the Promotion and Development of in-Company Training
(INDEFE), MTAS's main vehicle for providing assistance to companies which
undertake their own training, needs to be considerably strengthened (para
L1.8). There is in particular the need to build up INDEFE's capacity to
assist   companies   in  performing   training  needs  assessment,   designing
appropriate training plans and programs, defining methods, resources and
budgets for implementing training plans, and evaluating results. The proposed



- 18 -
project wo-ld f inance 24 months of expert services to develop appropriate
methodologies and train INDEFE staff.  This would be complemented by another
24 months of expert services for short-term consultancies in collaboration
with INDEFE in key sectors such as food processing, water supply, heavy and
light industries, energy, chemical and petrochemical industries, tourism and
handicrafts. Finally the proposed project would finance 60 months of overseas
fellowships to train 10 INDEFE's staff in training needs assessment and
program design.
2.16     Study  of  the  Development  of  Apprenticeship  Training   MTAS  is
responsible for organizing and administering the apprenticeship training
scheme  in  Algeria.    In  light  of  the  very  fast  development  of  the
apprenticeship training scheme, it is both timely and necessary to conduct an
in-depth review of tne system (para 1.19). In particular it will be necessary
to look at the organization of the system, the quality of programs (both
theoretical and practical), the efficiency of instructors, the monitoring of
apprentices  and  their  insertion  in  the  labor  market,  the  respective
responsibilities of all parties and the firancing of the system as well as
ways and means to further develop this system in the future.  The proposed
project would assist in this process by financing 12 months of expert services
to conduct a study of the strengths and weaknesses of apprenticeship
training.  During negotiations  the Government  provided assurances that no
later than December 31, 1989 the study on the development of apprenticeship
training system would be completed and sent to the Bank for its review. The
Government would take into consideration the Bank's comments in implementing
the recommendations of the study (para 5.01).
Management and Finances
2.17     The proposed project would assist MEF in strengthening the management
of the vocational training system, controlling costs and improving its
financial operations.   This would be achieved by setting-up a computerized
system for equipment procurement and maintenance for the National Agency for
Equipment Procurement (ANEFP), developing a vocational training computerized
management information system at INFP, designing a cost control monitoring
system and providing in-service training to all CFPA management teams.  In
addition, the proposed project would include a study of the development of
production in CFPAs.
2.18     Computerized System  or Equipment Procurement and Maintenance  The
recent creation of ANEFP is expected to facilitate the procurement of fairly
large amounts of equipment. The mission of ANEFP is to procure, deliver and
install training equipments to all MEF institutions. At the same time this
agency is responsible for the provision of small parts and for the maintenance
of equipment (para 1.23).  The agency is now organizing its activities with
the creation of 12 regional offices.   In order to monitor the status of
equipment procurement and maintenance for the entire CFPA network, the agency
intends to set up a computerized procurement system. The proposed project
would finance computer equipment and software together with 4 months of
experts services to assist in the setting up of the system.  It would also



- 19 -
finance 2 months of experts services to assist in the procurement of equipment
for the project, 6 months of fellowships for key ANEFP staff to be trained in
the field of procurement and maintenance and 6 months of fellowships in the
field of maintenance organization.
2.19     Vocational  Training  Management  Information  System   The  National
Institute of Vocational Training (INFP) is responsible for monitoring the
entire vocational training system from the pedagogical point of view. This
means  gathering  and  analyzing  data  pertaining  to  300   institutions,
75,000 tra4%tees in 100 different trade specializations and some 5,000
instructord. Regular updating of this information is necessary to provide
feedback to MEF management.  The INFP intends to establish a computerized
management information system which will include several data bases to monitor
student flows, instructor career and training, availability of instructional
materials and unit costs (para 2.20).  The proposed project would finance
computer equipment and software, 18 months of expert services to train INFP
staff and assist them in developing this management information system, as
well as 6 months of fellowships for INFP staff.
2.20     Cost Control and Monitoring  The expansion of the vocational training
system run by MEF over the last 5 years is now resulting in increased
budgetary  outlays.   MEF  is  trying  to  keep  the  operating  budget  within
acceptable limits by applying strict budgetary norms and introducing various
cost reduction measures (para 1.25). However there is a need to develop a
methodology to compute unit costs by trade specialization, establish
procedures to collect and update relevant information. The proposed project
would finance 12 months of expert services to assist INFP staff in this
process. This would be done in close collaboration with the team in charge of
setting up the vocational training management information system (para.
2.19). Finally there is a need to develop in-service training for all CFPA
management teams (para. 1.24). New and improved in-service training programs
which emphasize cost control and monitoring, maintenance and management of
production activities, would be developed by INFP staff. The proposed project
would finance 2 months of expert services to design appropriate training
seminars for all CFPA management teams.
2.21     Study of the Development of Production  in CFPAs  While  improved
management procedures and strict adherence to budgetary norms are esse>ntial,
there is a growing recognition that additional financial resources outside the
Government budget need to be mobilized. The network of training institutions,
with its workshops, production equipment and manpower, has the potential to
generate modest but significant revenues through the sale of items produced in
the workshops. MEF sees in the development of production in CFPAs, a way to
at least partly offset some of the cost of training.  De facto a number of
companies ia Algeria sub-contract the production of specific items to training
institutions  (para 1.26).  MEF would like to review the conditions of the
development of production work in training institutions. A study would be
undertaken jointly by a team of experts and national counterparts to analyze
which type of products and services can be offered, the integration of
production activities in training programs, the resulting organization with



- 20 -
regard to production, quallty control, marketing, administration and finance.
In addition the study would determine appropriate guidelines to avoid
repetitive   production   activities   becoming   detrimental    to   learning
achievement. The proposed project would finance 6 months of expert services
to undertake the proposed study. During negotiations the Government provided
assurances that no later than Dece.ier 31, 1989 the study on the development
of production in CFPAs would be completed and sent to the Bank for its
review. The Government would take into consideration tte Bank's comments in
implementing  the recommendations  of  the study  (p.ra.  5.01).   The  proposed
project would also finance 18 months of fellowships for high level staff in
MEF to study production work experiences in other countries of the region.
m. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. IMPLEAMTATION AND DISBURSEMUET
Project Costs
3.01     Summary   of   Prolect   Costs    Project   costs   are   estimated  at
715.9 million Algerian Dinars (DA), or US$101.3 million equivalent, for the
project components shown in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: Summary of Project Cost by Copmpoent
ALGERIA
VOCATIONAL TRAININ PROJECT
PROJECT COST SARY
(ALGERIAN DINAR  ilhllon)          (Us$ billion)
I Totl                         I Total
Foreign Base                  X Foreign Base
Local Foreign Total Exchange  Costs  Local Foreign Total Exchange  Costs
....3n=Z 3323233  2=3=3=3 W233322 UV=  332223332 U3WJ`3232U =233--
A. TRAINING INSTITUTIONS    138.7  206.0 344*6  60    80  27.7  41.2 68,9   60    80
B. PR0SRAllS AD SERVICES    62.0  15.8 77.8  20    18  12.4   3.? 15.6      20    18
C. MNAIET AD FINNICING   0.9   5*7  6*6      86     2   0*2   1.1  1*3      86     2
Total SLINE COSTS        201*6  227.4 429.0   53   100  40.3  45.5 85.8      53   100
Physical Contingemcies  20.2  22.3 42.5     53    10  4.0   4.5  8*5       53    10
Price Contingencies    105.2  139.3 244.5   57    57  29   4.1  7*0       58      8
total PROJECT COSTS      326.9  389*0 715.9   54   167  47M3   54.0 101. i    53   118
32X.WUz33 UX3  ZX3j =223MZ -au    3232U 333   22       3
havd IB, 198 !2:02



- 21 -
3.02        A  summary  of  estimated  project  costs  by  category  of  expenditures  is
given below:
Table 3.2  Poieet Costs by Cateaorv-o Eoxf               eture
ALGERIA
VIOATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SUMARY ACCOUNTS COST SWUMRY
(ALGERIAN DINAR  Milliun)                    (US  hillion)
2 lotal                                I Total
Z Foreign  BO                          Z Foreign  BO
Local Foreign Total Exchange   Costs   Local Foreign Total Exchargs   Costs
INVESTNENT CSTS
A. REFURBISHING                      20.9    8.9  29.8         30       7   42       1.8  6.0         30        7
B. EQUIPMENT
1 GOO0S                          45.7  187.8 233,4         80      54   9.1    37.6  46.7         80      54
2. LAND TRANSPORT/INSTAL          16.5       -  16.5         -       4    3.3       -   3.3         -       4
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                  62.1   187.8 249,9        75      58   12.4    37.6  50.0        75      58
C. CONSUMWLE MATERIALS               58.1    14.5  72.5        20      17   11.6    2.9  14.5         20       17
n. MS AND MATERIALS
1. OO                              0.6    5.3 S.9           9I                 1 0.1  1.1   1.2    90       1
2, LAND TRANSPORT/INSTAL           0.4       -   0.4         -       0    0.1       -  0.1          -       0
Sub-Total BOOKS AND tATERIALS         1.0    5.3   6.3         84       1   0.2      1.1  1.3         84        1
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 -     8.9   8.t       100       2      -     1.8  1.8        100       2
F. TRAINING,  LOCAL                  59.2       -  59.2         -      14   11.8       -  11.8         -      14
S. TRAINING * AOD                     0,2     2.1   2.3        90       1    0.0     0.4   0.5        90       1
Total BASELINE COSTS                    201.6  227.4 429.0         53     100   40.3   45.5  85.8         53     100
Phwsical Contingercies                20.2   22.3 4V.5          53      10    4.0    4.5   8.5         53      10
Price Continmnies                    105.2   139,4 244.5        57      57   2.9      4.1 /.0          58       8
Total PROJECt CSTS                      326.9   389,0 715.9        54     167   47.3    54,0 101.3        53     118
:; 822 2au2z2   2S___         2822332  .888== 5 5M 288=- 5  252S2S S2 2    a=85
hay 18t 1988 12:02



- 22 -
3.03     Basis  of  Cost  Estimates   The  costs  of  refurbishing  existing
facilities are based on joint MEF and Bank estimates of the work involved to
bring these facilities built about twenty-five years ago up to acceptable
standards. The cost of refurbishing the CFPA workshops average the equivalent
of US$20,000 per workshop. Technical assistance costs have been estimated on
the basis of recent prices for comparable technical assistance in the region.
Local training costs have been estimated on the basis of actual in-service
training costs in Algeria.  Base cost estimates reflect prices as projected
for the time of negotiations (May 1988).
3.04     Customs  Duties  and  Taxes   Project  costs  include  an  estimated
US$0.7 million in indirect taxes on locally procured civil works, goods and
services.   Equipment  and  goods  imported  directly  for  use  by  Government
ministries are exempt from duties.
3.05     Contingency Allowances  Project costs include a contingency allowance
for unforeseen physical additions (US$8.5 million), equal to 102 of the
project cost.  Price contingencies between negotiations  (May 1987) and the
completion  of  project  implementation  are  estimated  at  US$7.0  million
equivalent, or 81 of the project cost.  Total contingencies represent 182 of
the base cost.  Annual rates of price variations have been applied to foreign
costs at the following rates: 1X in 1988, 1989, and 1990, and 3.51 from 1991
to 1995. Annual rates of price variations have been applied to local costs at
the following rates: 12% in 1988, 112 in 1989, 101 in 1990, 1991 and 1992, 81
in 1993 and 6% in 1994 and 1995. Local costs have been converted into dollar
terms assuming a constant real exchange rate.
3.06     Foreian  Exchange  Component   The  foreign  exchange  component was
estimated as follows: (a) refurbishing of existing workshops - 301;
(b) equipment 801; (c) consumable materials - 201; (d) books and materials -
901; (e) experts services - 1001; (f) foreign fellowships - 901; and (g) local
training - 01. These percentages have been determined by: (a) calculating the
indirect foreign exchange content of minor works; (b) assuming that the
majority of equipment and all technical '-oks would be imported; and
(c) assuming that all project specialists we  d be foreign.  The resulting
foreign  exchange   component,   contingencies   included,  is  estimated  at
US$54.0 million, or about 531 of total costs.
3.07     Recurrent Costs  Under the proposed project,  additional recurrent
expenditures would only result from the maintenance of equipment provided, as
well as the cost of additional consumable materials in all the institutions
assisted in the project and the cost of in-service training for instructors.
One maintenance agent per institution would be recruited in the 57 CFPAs and 4
IFPs. With regard to consumable materials, the proposed project would finance
an initial stock of materials corresponding to two training cycles. Estimated
total additional recurrent expenditures, generated by the proposed project
would be approximately. DA 33 million (US$6.6 million) by 1993, or
appoximately  2%  of  the  1986  budget  devoted  to  vocational  training
institutions.   The  additional  recurrent  costs  generated  by  the  proposed
project will therefore have a minimal impact on MEF's recurrent budget as they
are expected to be largely offset by the income generated by production work
in CFPAs.



- 23 -
Proleet Finaacix
3.08     The  proposed  Bank  loan  of  US$54.0  million  would  finance  the
equivalent  of  100l   of  foreign  exchange  component  of  the  project.   The
Government would  finance  the balance of project costs.  Project financing
would be in accordance with Table 3.3.
Table 3.3: Financig Plan
Categories of expenditure        - US$ Million-                   Estim. Bank
Gov't      Bank       Total         Financing (%)
Refurbishing                    6.2       0.0       6.2               0.0
Equipment                       8.6      45.4      54.0              84.1
Consumable materials           15.8       0.0       15.8              0.0
Books & Materials               0.2       1.2       1.4              85.7
Technical Assistance            0.0       2.1       2.1             100.0
Training Local                 12.6       0.0       12.6              0.0
Training Abroad                 0.0       0.5       0.5             100.0
Unallocated                     3.9       4.8       8.7              55.1
Total                     47.3       54.0     101.3              53.3
banaiymnent and Implementation
3.09     Management Structure.  The proposed project would be implemented by
the  relevant  departments  of  MEF  and  MTAS.   A  Management  Committee  was
established to prepare the proposed project and to monitor its implementation
until completion. It includes the main MEF directors concerned by the project
and a representative from MTAS. This Committee will be headed by the project
coordinator who is an advisor in the Minister's Private Office within MEF.
The Director of INFP and the Director of ANEFP, assisted by an accountant,
will have day to day responsibility of managing the project and administering
the loan.
3.10     Implementation of the Project  The Project Coordinator will primarily
overview the work of the implementing department, monitor progress, and liaise
with the Bank. During negotiations. the Government provided assurances that
the Project Coordinator will be maintained as indicated above under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.01).
3.11     Under the proposed project,  provision of all equipment  including
consumable materials and technical books would be implemented by ANEFP. This
agency is staffed by 42 professionals and is responsible for equipment
procurement  within  MEF.   This  agency  would  supervise  the  execution  of
equipment contracts, certification of payments, inspections, warehousing,



- 24 -
distribution to schools, installation, comissioning, and settlements of
claims. The proposed project would strengthen ANEFP's capacity to deal with
large numbers of equipment by providing computers, software and expert
services (para  2.18).   The MEF Direction of  Infrastructure  and Equipment
(DIE), which is staffed with 5 professionals, would coordinate the work of the
wilayate with regard to modifications and refurbishment to existing workshops
assisted in the project.
3.12     The  training  aspects  of  the  proposed  project  would  be  the
responsibility of the relevant institutes.   Program design and development,
instructional materials development and in-service training for instructors
would be implemented by INFP. This institute is currently staffed by about 40
high level staff. In-company training would be implemented by INDEFE which is
staffed by about 35 high level staff.
Maitenan,ce
3.13     Maintenance of all physical facilities is under the responsibility of
the CFPAs with assistance from DIE and financing from the wilayate.
Instructors assume responsibility for the maintenance of equipment in their
workshops. In order to ensure fast and effective maintenance of all training
equipment, MEF has assigned maintenance agents in all CFPAs assisted in the
project.
Ptouemment
3.14     Contracts for equipment would be grouped as much as possible to form
bidding packages  attractive  to suppliers.   Invitations  to  bid  have  been
grouped into 60 major packages of goods, the contents of each of which could
typically be supplied by one company. These items suitable for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), estimated at US$55.1 million, would be procured in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" (May 1985) and based on the "Sample Bidding Documents -
Procurement of Goods" (March 1986) under management of the MEF procurement
agency (ANEFP) (para. 3.11), and would account for about 90S of the total
value of the project's equipment. Contracts would be awarded on the basis of
Table 3.4.



-25 -
Table 3.4 Procurement AwranZemem8J
US$ Million
Category of Expenditures             Procurement Method            Total Cost
11B         Other
Refurbishing                          0.0           6.7                6.7
(0.0)         (0.0)              (0.0)
Equipment                            55.1           4.5               59.6
(48.0)         (2.1)             (50.1)
Consumable Materials                  0.0          17.2               17.2
(0.0)         (0.0)             (0.0)
Books and Materials                   0.0           1.5                1.5
0.0          (1.3)              (1.3)
Technical Assistance                  0.0           2.1                2.1
(0.0)         (2.1)             (2.1)
Fellowships Training                  0.0           0.5                0.5
(0.0)         (0.5)             (0.5)
Local Training                        0.0          13.7               13.7
(0.0)         (0.0)              (0.0)
Total                           55.1          46.2              101.3
Bank financing                 (48.0)         (6.0)             (54.0)
a/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
The exceptions to ICB procurement would be as follows:
(a) Sundry items not exceeding US$250,000 equivalent in each contract and
which, in the aggregate, would not exceed US$2.5 million equivalent,
could be purchased on the basis of a minimum of three quotations in
accordance with procedures outlined in para 3.4 of the Bank Guidelines;
(b) Acquisition of technical books, copyrights and once-and-for-all
payments to cover the anticipated royalty paymkmnts arising from the
printing of each book, estimated to cost US$1-5 million in total,
would be done through direct contracts with publishers.
With regard to items financed by Government, the exceptions would be:
(a) Refurbishment of existing buildings, estimated to cost a total of
US$6.7 million equivalent would be carried out on force account by
MEF's own institutions (CFPAs and OTRAFORM), and other wilaya-level
resources.   Given the small sise and  the dispersion of  the work
involved, exter-Aal contractors would not likely be interested. The
wilayate would be responsible;



- 26 -
(b) Some training equipment necessary to equip workshops for the farming
equipment maintenance specializations would have to be purchased
through reserved procurement so that the equipment acquired would
remain  compatible  with  the  equipment  used  in  the  field.   This
equipment, entirely financed by the Government, would not exceed in
the aggregate US$2.0 million equivalent, or less than 4% of the total
equipment cost. The proposed reserved procurement is not expected to
affect significantly the satisfactory execution of the project in
terms of overall cost, quality and completion time.
For equipment to be procured through ICB, domestic manufacturers would be
allowed a preferential margin of 152, or the existing customs duty, whichever
is lower, over the c.i.f. prices of competing imports. Under ICB procedures,
all bidding packages for goods over US$250,000 equivalent would be subject to
the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation resulting in a coverage
of about 80% of the total estimated value of goods contracts. The balance of
contracts would be subject to random post review by the Bank after contract
award.
Technical Assistance
3.15    Consultants  would  be  selected  in  accordance  with  principles  and
procedures acceptable to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executive
Agency" (August 1981). To simplify management, MEF and MTAS would obtain
expert services and fellowships as comprehensive TA contracts for most of the
TA programs. At least three training institutions, selected from a shortlist
acceptable  to  the  Bank,  would  be  invited  to  submit  proposals.   During
negotiations the Government provided assurances that, by March 1989, all
experts related to the Management and Finance component would be employed in
accordance with Schedule I (para. 5.01).
Status of Preparation
3.16    The current country disbursement profile (from date of effectiveness)
is 11 years. The proposed project would be disbursed in about eight years
(September 1988 - June 1996) in accordance with the Technical Assistance
Schedule II. The disbursement profile for education projects in the Region,
is in excess of ten years, due to the early stage (i.e., unacquired sites, no
engineering work) at which most education projects used to be appraised.
Timely implementation of this project, however, will be facilitated by the
fact that: (a) construction of buildings would be limited to minor
refurbishment of existing facilities and would not be financed by the Bank;
(b) equipment lists with bid specifications have been completed and checked by
an independent equipment expert; and (c) the TA package has been fully
defined,  draft  terms  of reference have been prepared.  Project completion
would be Dece_ber 31, 1995 and the Closing Date would be June 30, 1996.



- 27 -
Disbursements
3.17    The proposed project would be disbursed over a period of about 8 yearE
(Schedule III). Disbursement would be made against:
(a) 100 S of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment, books,
copyrights and royalty payments, and educational materials;
(b) 100 2 of ex-factory expenditures for locally manufactured equipment,
and educational materials; and
(c) l00Z of expenditures for consultant services and fellowships.
3.18    Disbursements for the above items would be made upon receipt by the
Bank of fully documented applications, except for expenditures under contracts
valued at less than US$250,000 equivalent, which would be made against
certified statements of expenditures (SOE). Supporting documentation for SOE
would be retained until one year after loan closing by the implementing agency
and made available for review by the Bank during supervision. Direct payment
applications and application for special commitments would be accepted for
minimum amounts of US$100,000 equivalent.
Special Account
3.19    To  facilitate  timely project  implementation,  the Government  would
establish, maintain and operate under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, a Special Account in US$ at the Central Bank of Algeria to which the
World Bank would make an initial deposit of US$2.5 million equivalent to a
four-month  average  Bank  disbursement.    The  Special  Account  would  be
replenished against withdrawal applications submitted on a monthly basis or
whenever one third of the authorized amount has been utilized which ever comes
first. Documentation for replenishment requests would follow the same
procedure as in paragraph 3.18. In addition, monthly bank statements of the
Special Account would accompany replenishment requests.
Accounts and Audits
3.20   MEF,  in  accordance  with  acceptable  accounting  practices,  would
maintain separate accounts for the project, and would prepare, every semester,
a detailed statement reflecting project expenditures during the period and
projected expenditures for the forthcoming semester. Within 45 days after the
end of each semester, MEF would submit copies of these statements to the Bank
to facilitate supervision.   Project accounts, including the Special Account
(para. 3.19) would be audited in accordance with the March 1982 Bank
"Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the
World Bank". The Bank would be provided, within six months of the end of each
fiscal year, with an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may
reasonably  request,  including  a  separate  opinion  by  the  auditor  on
disbursements  against  a  certified  statement of expenses.   The Government
provided assurances to this effect during negotiations (para. 5.01).



- 28 -
IV. BENEF1lS AND RISKS
4.01    Enhanced  Quality  of  Training  The proposed project would  improve
directly the quality of training of the 6,000 trainees enrolled annually in
the courses supported by the project in the 57 CFPAs as well as 165 trainees
in the IFPs and 165 trainees in the ITEEM which are to be reequipped.   It
would also enhance indirectly the quality of training for the whole network of
training  institutions  through:   (a)  improved   curricula;   (b)   improved
instructional materials and technical books; and (c) upgraded in-service
training program for instructors.
4.02    Improved Labor Market Linkages  While the proposed project would not
increase the overall number of graduates, it would allow a better match
between the specializations offered to skilled and semi-skilled workers in the
training institutions assisted and the specific needs of the labor market.
Linkages with the labor market would also be improved by: (a) the creation of
Technical and Pedagogical Committees at the CFPA level (paras 1.16); (b) the
development of training activities in cooperation with employers such as
in-company training and apprenticeship training (paras 2.15 and 2.16); (c) the
availability of a graduate career and performance monitoring system (para.
2.14); and (d) the training of employment specialists (para. 1.17).
4.03    Improved Management and Financial Controls  The proposed project would
improve the management of the entire network of training institutions by: (a)
developing appropriate managerial tools such as a computerized procurement
system, a vocational training management information system and a cost
monitoring system; (b) providing in-service training to CFPA management team;
and (c) promoting cost recovery mechanisms, such as the production of items
for sale in training institutions.
4.04    Return on Investment  The proposed project is concerned mainly with
the rehabilitation of the existing network of training institutions.  Returns
on project investments, based on the differential wage potential of
semi-skilled vocational trainees as compared to unskilled labor are likely to
be substantial, though the relationship between quality of training and labor
productivity is too complex to be directly quantified.
4.05    There are no special risks associated with the proposed project, which
is based on improving the effectiveness at unchanged capacity levels, of a
well established network of training institutions. Special attention has been
given to project coordination and management arrangements.  The Management
Committee, established to prepare the proposed project, will be maintained to
monitor project implementation (para. 3.09). A Project Coordinator has been
nominated for coordinating the work of the relevant departments, keeping
project accounts and liaising with  the Bank (para. 3.09).  The equipment
program will be handled by ANEFP, a specialized agency which will receive
assistance under the proposed project (para. 2.18). Early preparation work
undertaken by MEF and MTAS has been good, and the project is in an advanced
stage of preparation.



- 29 -
V. AGREEMENM REACHED AT NEGOTIAIIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01    During negotiations, the Government provided assurance, that:
(a) Technical and Pedagogical Committees have bren established in
all 57 CFPAs assisted under the proposed project (para. 1.16).
(b)  The number of instructors receiving in-service training every
year will increase to reach one third of the teaching force by
1992 (para. 2.11).
(c) A Project Coordinator will be maintained with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.10).
(d) Maintenance Agents have been assigned to all 57 CFPAs assisted
under the proposed project by January 1, 1989 (para. 3.13).
(e) By March 1989, all consultants related to the Management and
Finance component will be employed in accordance with Schedule I
(para. 3.15).
(f) No later than December 31, 1989, the study on the development of
apprenticeship training and the study on production work in
training institutions will be completed and sent to the Bank for
its review (paras. 2.16 and 2.21).   The Government will take
into consideration the Bank's comments in implementing the
recommendations of these studies.
(g) Project accounts, including the Special Account, will oe audited
annually by the Auditor General's Office and submitted to the
Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year of ;"c-h
scope and details as the Bank may reasonably request, including
a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against
certified statements of expenses (para. 3.20).
5.02     Subject to the above conditions,  the proposed project  provides a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$54.0 million to the Democratic and
Popular Republic of Algeria.



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 ot
LA=mR  MARKET ANQ EMPLOYMENT
Table 1:  Yfl]UbjL3J_J,he._A1erjan Labor Force
H-----male------------           - ----Female ------------          --------Tottl-------------
Years    Labor Force   ActivitX.Rate *  Later Fgrce   Activity Rate          Labor Fatr    Activity Rate
(000"s)          (X)             (c00's)           (X)              (000's)          (X)
1979       3.423            37.5              236             2.8              3.67S           20.0
i9s4       4,071            37.9              385             3.6              4,460           20.7
1989       4.764            37.7              609             4.8              5,373           21.2
2000       7.200            41.6             1,500            8.7              8.700           24.2
Surce: Ministry of Planning
'The activity rate is the percentage of the labor force over the total population.
Table 2:  Labor Foree and Emnloyment
197      197       1980      1981    1982      1983      1984      1985      1986    1987
Agriculture                      970      969       969       963      960      960       960       990    1.000   1.0os
Industry                         375      401       431       458     468       474       495       S10       527     552
Construction                     399      437       469       S04      552      617       654       658       661     666
Transport and communications   120         126      137       144      148      160       166       170       175      180
Trade and services               430      470       487       506      542      568       595       612       638     663
Government                       5S6      615       660       705      752      797       845       900       955   1.005
Non-agriculture sub-total    1,889    2.049    2.184    2,317   2,452    2,616    2.755    2,850    2,956   3.066
Total employed labor force   2.859    3.018    3,153    3,280   3.422    3,576    3.,1S    3,840    3,956   4.071
Unemployed as X of               631      594       595       582      623      630       659       781       838     905
non-agricultural labor force  25.0X    22.5X    21.4X    20.1X   20.2X    19.4X    19.3X    21.S    22.11   22.82
Total labor force              3,490    3,612    3,748    3.862   4.045    4.206    4.374    4,621    4,794   4.976
Source: Ministry of Planning
*Growth Rates
1978-79  1979-80  1920-81  1981-82  1982-43  19a3-34  1984-85  19gS-86  1986--87 1979-3d
Agriculture                    -0.1      0.0      -0.6      -0.3       0.0      0.0       3.1       1.0       O.S    -0.2
Industry                        6.9      7.5       6.3       2.2       1.3      4.4       3.0       3.3      4.7      4.3
Construction                    9.5      7.3       7.5       9.5      11.8      6.0       0.6       0.5       0.8     8.4
Transport and Commnications  S.0         8.7       5.1       2.8      8.1       3.8       2.4       2.9       2.9     5.7
Trade and Services              9.3      3.6       3.9       7.1      4.8       4.8       2.9       4.2       3.9     4.8
Government                      8.8      7.3       6.8       6.7       6.0      6.0       6.5       6.1       5.2     6.6
Non-agriculture sub-total       8.5      6.6       6.1       6.3      6.3       5.3       3.4       3.7       3.7     6.1
Total Employed Labor Force    5.6        4.5       4.0       4.3      4.5       3.9       3.4       3.0       2.9     4.2
Total Labor Force               3.5      3.8       3.0       4.7      4.0       4.0       5.6       3.7       3.8     2.1
Source: Ministry of Planning
0045C/PASI It



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
LABOR MARKET AND EMPLOYMENT
Table 3: Sectoral Distribution of the Labor Force (1)
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Agriculture         33.9%  32.1%  30.78  29.4%  28.1%  26.81  25.81  25.8S  25.3S  24.71
Industry            13.1%  13.31  13.7%  14.01  13.7%  13.3S  13.32  13.3%  13.31  13.61
Construction        14.0S  14.51  14.91  15.41  16.11  17.31  17.6%  17.1%  16.71  16.41
Transport &
Communications       4.21   4.2%   4.31   4.41   4.31   4.51   4.51   4.41   4.41   4.41
Trade & Services   15.01  15.61  15.41  15.41  15.81  15.91  16.01  15.91  16.1%  16.31
Government          19.81  20.41  20.91  21.51  22.01  22.3%  22.7%  23.41  24.11  24.71
Total              100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  .oo.o  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Source:Ministry of Planning
Table 4: Aae Distribution of Unemployment (S)
Age                 Unemployed               Labor Force
10-19                  13.9                     14.5
20-29                  43.0                     31.1
30-59                  42.2                     48.3
60 +                    0.9                      6.1
Total                 100.0                     100.0
Source: Manpower Office (ONAMO) and ILO 1985 Statistical Yearbook.
Table 5: Unsatisfied Job Demands by Level of Qualification and Sex in 1985 (2)
Male    Female      Total    Total Labor Force(1983)
Unskilled workers        53.7      68.5       55.2               39.8
Semi-skilled workers    43.7       29.7       42.3               47.5
Skilled workers           1.9       1.0        1.8                 7.1
Junior technicians        0.4       0.2        0.4                3.1
Professionals & Senior
technicians             0.3      0.6         0.3                2.5
Total             100.0    100.0       100.0              100.0
Source: Mt-,nower Office (ONAMO), National Bureau of Statistics (ONS)
Table 6. Participation of non-skilled workers in the labor force (%)
Sector                      1980                1984
Agriculture                 93.3                 90.3
Industry                    35.8                26.0
Construction                71.3                65.8
Services                    68.6                64.1
Administration              35.0                 28.2
Source: Ministry of Planning
004Sg/pagoe IS



- 32 -
Page 3 of 3
LABOR MARKET AND MWLOYMENT
Table 7 t Skill Distribution of the Workforce
(1983)
Levels of
Qualification                  Male               Female               Total
Univ. graduates 6
senior technicians       77,273   2.32       14,665   5.91        91,938   2.52
Junior technicians &
supervisory staff        93,093   2.81       20,384   8.21       113,477   3.11
Skilled workers           204,101   6.01       54,719  22.11       258,820   7.12
Semi-sWilled workers   1,628,659  48.12        96,022  38.81      1724,681  47.51
Unskilled workers      1,381,844  40.82        61,852  25.01    1,443,696  39.82
Total             3,084,970 100.01       247,642 100.01    3,332,612 100.01
Source: National Bureau of Statistics (ONS)
Table 8: Job Offers Not Filled
Sector                                      Job Offers
(Number)             (1)
Agriculture                             825               1.8
Mining and Energy                     2,288               4.9
Construction and Public Works        24,848              54.2
Steel Industry                        2,684               5.9
Mechanical & Electrical Indust.       3,345               7.3
Building Materials                    2,256               4.9
Chemical Industry                       718               1.6
Food Industry                           911               2.0
Textile Industry                      1,673               3.7
Other Industries                        424               0.9
Transport                             1,053               2.3
Trade and Services                    4,811              10.5
Total                      45,830             100.0
Source: Manpower Office (ONAMO)



THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUELIC OF ALGERIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HCET PROGM, INSTMTUTIONS AND ENROLLMENTS
Diploma or     Entrance       Length of       Nsme of       number of                       1986        2986
Function     Requirements    Training      Institution   Institutions      Instructors  Enrol lents  Graduates
Instructor                  PEP        3AS or CAP       1 - 2 years     IFPs               5            90 PSEP    1.300            500
+ S yrs work
Senior technician           TS          3AS             30 months       ITEE                1            50 PSEP      750           231
ITTPB              1            55 PSEP      900            179
CFPA                            60 PSEP      888            452
IFP, CFPA
Junior technician           CFP2        3AS             24 months       ITTPB & CFPAs    283                     (  1,707           677
Highly skilled worker       CAP2        I0th grade      18 - 21 months  CFPAs            282                     ( 5,497          3,635
Skilled worker              CAPI       9th grade        12 - 15 months  CFPAs            282          4,600 PEP C 53,309         25,501
Semi-skilled worker         CFPl       basic literacy  6 months         CFPAs            282                     ( 7,243          3.56      
Various tYPes and levels of            basic literacy  variable         CFAS              30                     ( 9,000          9,000
goverrment employees                   to 3 years of
secondary
Source: Ministry of Education and Training
004S'PAE 14



- 34 -
ANNEX 3
THE DEMAOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLC OF ALGERIA
VOCATiONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SIAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ENROLLMENTS AND GRADUATES IN C. F. P. A.
BY SPECIALIZATION AND LEVEL
AREA OF                     CFP1      CAP1     CAP2      CFP2      TS   TOTAL
SPECIALIZATION
CONSTRUCTION
Enrollments          6,554    6,070       228       799   228  13,879
Graduates            3,483    4,805       118       415   117   8,938
MECHANICS AND STEEL
Enrollments                    5,589                             5,589
Graduates                      2,190                             2,190
STEEL CONSTRUCTION
Enrollments                    4,795      917                    5,712
Graduates                      2,473      806                    3,279
ENGINES, MACHINES
Enrollments                    4,708                280          4,988
Graduates                      2,197      816       109          3,122
ELECTRICITY
Enrollments                    7,416    1,640              660   9,716
Graduates                      3,317      856              335   4,508
WOODWORK, FURNITURE
Enrollments                    2,164                             2,164
Graduates                      1,430                             1,430
TEXTILE AND GARMENT
Enrollments            689    6,768                 280          7,737
Graduates               73    2,490        66        48          2,677
OFFICE SKILLS
Enrollments                   13,535    2,712                   16,247
Graduates                      5,817      973                    6,790
GRAPHIC ARTS
Enrollments                      225                               225
Graduates                         96                                96
CHEMISTRY
Enrollments                      278                100            378
Graduates                        250                 49            299
SERVICE HANDICRAFTS
Enrollments                      787                               787
Graduates                        252                               252
TRADITIONAL HANDICRAFTS
Enrollments                      974                               974
Graduates                        184                               184
COMPUTER SKILLS
Enrollments                                         248            248
Graduates                                            56             56
TOTAL
Enrollments          7,243   53,309    5,497    1,707   888  68,644
Graduates            3,556   25,501    3,635        677   452  33,821
Source: Ministry of Education and Training
0O4Sg/page I



-35 -                             ANNEX 4
page I
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUELIC OF ALGERIA
VOCATIONAL TRAING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Location of CFPAs Assisted in the Prolect
Wilaya                Name of CFPA                 Number of Workshops
ADRAR                       ADRAR I                               5
CULEF                       CHLEF                                 7
LAGHOUAT                    LAGHOUAT I                            3
BEJAIA                      BEJAIA (G)                            6
SIDI-AICH                            7
BISKRA                      BISKRA                                4
BECRAR                      BECHAR                                7
BLIDA                       BLIDA (G)                            3
LARBAA                               5
EL-AFFROUN                           4
BOUIRA                      DRAA-EL-BORDJ                        4
FERMW  ECOLE                         5
TLEMCEN                     TLEMCEN (POLY. V)                     1
TIARET                      TIARET I                             8
TIZI-OUZOU                  BOUKHALFA                            5
OUED-AISSI                           9
DJEMAA-SAHARIDJ                      2
BOGHNI                               1
TADMAIT                              3
KERRAD RACHID                        3
EL-BAYADH                   EL-BAYADH I                          4
BORDJ-BOU-ARRERIDJ          B.B.A.
BOUMERDES                   BORDJ-MENAIEL                       16
BORDJ-EL-BAHRI                       8
EL-OUED                     EL-OUED                              3
AIN-DEFLA                   KHEMIS-MILIANA                       4
NAAMA                       AIN-SEFRA                            5
GHARDAIA                    EL-MNIAM  I                          3
GHARDAIA (G)                         2
RELIZANE                    RELIZANE                              9
OUED-RHIOU
Note: G = boys; F = girls.
nfidgna*.-, IC



- 36 -
ANNEX 4
page 2
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBUC OF ALGERIA
VOCATIONAL TRAWINIG PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Location of CFPAs Assisted in the Prolect
Wilaya                  Name of CFPA                Number of Workshops
ALGER                       BEN-AKNOUN                           11
BIRKHADEM (F)                         1
BAB-EL-OUED (F)                       2
BAB-EL-OUED (G)                       2
LA MONTAGNE I                         4
MOHAMMADIA                            1
lASSIBA-BEN-BOUALI                    6
DJELFA                      DJELFA I                              1
JIJEL                       JIJEL (G)                             4
SETIF                       SETIF (G)                             9
EL-EULMA (G)                          3
SAIDA                       SAIDA (POLY. V.)                      5
SKIKDA                      SKIKDA (F)                            4
SIDI-BEL-ABBES              S.B.A. (POLYVALENT)                   7
ANNABA                      ANNABA (POLY. V.)                     7
ANNABA (F)                            2
CONSTANTINE                 CONSTANTINE I                         5
CONSTANTINE (F. I.)                   2
NOSTAGANEK                  MOSTAGANEM                            9
M'SILA                      M'SILA                                2
MASCARA                     MASCARA (G)                           4
OUARGLA                     OUARGLA I                             4
ORAN                        ORAN METAUX                          13
ORAN BATIMENT                         4
ORAN (F. I.)                          3
ES-SENIA                              4
TOTAL                                                           266
004Sgdpag* Is



- 37 -
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGRI
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAtF APPRAISAL REPORT
Number of rraining Places Reequiped and Annual Output
by specialization in the 57 CFPAs
WORKSHOPS RiEOUIPED           . NO. OF
:                  :        ;  TOTAL  :TRAINING:
:SPECIALIZAtIONS                  SAME TRADE   CONVERTED    SECTIONS : PLACES
1 MECHANICAL MAINTENANCE                         2            2    :  40  :
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT       :
2 MECHANICAL MAINTENANCE                    :    3       :    3    :  60
LIFTING EQUIPMENT            :            :
3 MECHANICAL MAINTENANCE       :                  3      :    3    :  60
INJECTION
4 MECHANICAL MAINTENANCE              1     :   12            13      260  :
IRRIGATION EQUIPMENT         :            :            :
5 OFFICE EQUIPMENT-MAINTENANCE :            :    8       :    8    : 160
6 MECHANICAL MAINTENANCE                    :    3       :    3    :  60
WATER SUPPLY EQUIPHENT
7 ELEVATORS MAINTENANCE        :            :    2            2    :  40  :
8 MECHANICAL MAINTENANCE       :      3     :    3            6    : 120  :
FARMING EQUIPMENT
9 ELECTRICAL INSTALLATION            12     --                14      280  :
:10  ELECTRAMECHANICAL MAINT.    :    13     :    2       :   15    : 300  :
:11  ELECTROTECHNICAL                  2     :    1       :    3    :  60  :
:12 CONTROL AND INSTRUMENTATION :      1                        I:    :  20  :
:13 REFRIGERATION                      6     :   10            16       320  :
:14  RAOIO AND TELEVISION              6           6      :   12        240  :
:15  AUTOMATION                              :    1       :    I         20 
:16  INDUSTRIAL ELECTRONICS            1           3      :    4    :  80
:17  PLUtMING. PIPE FITTING     :      9     :    1       :   10        200  :
:18 HEATING AND AIR CONDITION   :      3     :    7 I          10    : 200
:19 WELDING                            a 8   :            :    8    : 160
:20  FOUNDRY FORGING AND        :    12      :    2       :   14    : 280
HARDWARE                    :            :            :
:21  METAL FRAMING              :            :    1       :    1    :20:
:22  SHEET METAL                        1   :            :    1    :  20
:23 METAL CONSTRUCTION                  1   :    1       :    2    :  40
:24 METAL WORK                  :      2     :            :    2    :40:
:25 METAL AND PIPE WORK                1     :            :    1    :  20  :
:26  INDUSTRIAL MECHANICAL             S     :    4       :    9    : 180
MAINTENANCE                 :
:27 MACHINE SHOP - TURNING      :      2     :            :    2    ;  30
:28 MACHINE SHOP - MILLING             2     :                  2    :  30
:29 MACHINE SHOP-RECTIFICATION  :            :    3        ;    3    :  45  :
:30 AUTO MECHANICS              :    20      :    3            23    : 460  :
:31  DOMESTIC APPLIANCES        :            :    S       :    5    : 100  :
MAINTENANCE
:32 AUTO ELECTRICITY            :      3     :    7       :   10    : 200  :
:33 BODY REPAIR                        1     :    6       :    7    :  140  :
:34 GARMENT MAKING              :      S     :            :    S    : 125  :
:3S READY TOWAR                 :      6     :    2       :    8    : 200  :
:36 TAILORING                   :      2     :    2       :    4    : 100  :
:37 STYLING                            2     :    2       :    4    :       80:
:38  EMBROIDERY                 :            .    4       :    4    :  80:
:39  TYPING - OFFICE TECHNOLOGY  :     7     :    3       :   10        200  :
:40  0iTING                                        4            4    :      80:
:41  HAIR DRESSING              :      4     :    3       :    7    :140  :
:42 BEAUTY CARE                 :            :    1       :    1    :20  :
:43  PHOTO ENGRAVING            :      1     :            :    1    :  20  :
:44 PINTING                            1     :            :    1    :20  :
:4S WOOD-WORKING                :            :    1        :    1    :20  :
SHIP BUILDING
TOTAL                        :   142          123      :  2       :5.370
004SGO/ 7



- 38 -
ANNEX 6
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC ALGERIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINIG PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Number of training places re-equipped, Total enrollments
and Estimated output from Project supported Institutions
Type of    No. of Workshops    No. of Training        Enrollment in    Estimated
Institution     Re-equipped       Places re-equipped  Project supported   Output
1/            Trades  2/             3/
CFPA (57)           266               5,370                 6,000          3,200
IFP (4)              11                 165                   165             75
ITEEM (1)            11                 165                   165             60
1/ For the CFPAs, the number of training places by specialization is given in
Annex 5. For the IFPs and ITEEM it is 15 training places per workshop.
A/ Enrollments in the CFPAs assume a 121 double shift.
3/ Average duration of courses is estimated to be 18 months for CFPAs, 24
months for IFPs and 30 months for ITEEN, and the pass rate is 80% for the
CFPAs and 90X for IFPs and ITEEM.
004SV/page 1*



- 39 -
ALtERIA - EDUCATION SECTOR RECURRENlT NUDET                            AIUIEX 7
(Nlosinal)
1981 ::J:           s       1982 ;::::       a2sa::::s  1966 sat:s sx::::z::: 1987 :::s::
I of  S ot                I ot   I of               I ot   I ot               I of  I of
DA N     total  GDP       DA N     total  6OP       DA N     total  SOP       DA N     total  SDP
:3#:2333    :23  azs    issa:    ""    :s:    ~:aa    33333  8333    2:::::   :233   23S
6ROSS DO0ESTIC PRODUCT             191,469.4                 207,551.8                 297,700.0 c/              322,000.0 c/
NATIONAL RECURRENT BUDGET           36,195.3  100.01  18.91   42,238.2  100.01  20.41   59,500.0  100.01  20.01   63,000.0  100.01  19.62
OF IHICHt
NINISTRY OF HI6HER EDUCATION      1,891.8    5.21   1.01    2,060.2   4.91   1.02    3,100.0   5.22   1.01    3,494.0   5.52   1.12
NINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION    6,720.0  18.62   3.5l   7,862.1   18.72   3.8%   12,630.0  21.22   4.22   15,886.0  25.22   4.91
a/                      b/
NINISTRY OF VOCATIONAL TRAININI
AND LABOR                           418.1    1.21   0.21      555.7   1.31   0.31    1,470.0   2.5S   0.52    1,562.0    2.51   0.52
TOTAL EDUCTION & VOC.TAAININ6  9,029.9  24.92   4.71   10,497.9  24.92   5.12   17,200,0  28.92   5.81   20,942.0  33.22   6.51
::a:      s:z=        a:::::s    I        ::::: =23 2   323:  :::::  :Sa::   :::x::  z3:2
a/ Includes 1,063  A million ior the National Secretariat tor Secondary and Technical Education which uas part ot the Ninistry ot
Education and Skientitic Research 4 hich later on betaae Ministry ot Higher Education).
b/ Includes 1,347 DA million tor National Secretariat tor Secondary and Tecthnical Education.
c) At the end ot 1987, the Ninistry ot Vocational Training and Labor becawe the linistry of Labor and Social Affairs and
training institutions were tnanstered to the Ninistry ot Education and Labor.
The budget ot these training institutions represented AD 1,277 in 1986 and AD 1369 in 1987 , or about 22 ot the total
government budget.



- 40 -
ANNE 8
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBUC OF ALGERIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
APPRAIAL REPORT
Revenues generated by Trainina Institutions
as a S of their budget (1987)
(In thousand dinars)
TRAINING               BUDGET ALLOCATED          REVENUES
INSTITUTIONS           TO INSTITUTIONS           GENERATED                  a
C. F. A.                    234,500                 10,580                4.51
C. F. P. A.                 955,000                 19,671                2.06
I. F. P.                    108,000                 3,147                 2.91
I. N. F. P.                  19,000                 1,782                 9.38
I. T.                        36,200                  1,684                4.65
TOTAL                     1,352,700                 36,864                2.72
Source: ME?
Note: Figures in first two columns have been rounded after X calculation.
@O45g/p-ge I



- 41 -
ANNEX 9
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBUC ALGERIA
VQCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Estimated Annual Recurrent Costs
for a 300 Training Place CFPA
(1986)
Item                                                DA
Salaries                                              1,540,000
Scholarships and stipends                               777,000
Other salary expenditures                               377,000
Consumable materials                                    360,000
Maintenance and other operational costs                 194,000
TOTAL                                           3,248,600
Per Student Recurrent Unit Cost                          10,829
Source: Ministry of Education and Training
004SgVpage 3



SCHEgDULE L
Page I of 3
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Imnlementation Schedule
Comnonent              CFY  t9 8g9                               91            92_          93           94      |     95           96
TRAINING - INSTITUTIONS
Refurbishino Inst4tution Survey
Refurbishmenit/Tranche I              XXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXX
Refurbishmen /Tranche II                                        XXXXXX XXXXXX
EaUiDMent
Sid Documents                         XXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXX
Advertising/Award                       xx   XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXX
Oelivery and Installation
CFPA/Tranche I                                                  XXXxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx XXXXXXXXXXXX XxxXXxxxxxxx xXxXX
CFPA/Tranche II                                                              XXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXX
IFP                                                       XX
ITEEM                                                                                XX
Technical Books                                                                                                                                             ro
Bid Documents                         XXXXXX
Advertisiin/Award                            XXXXXXXX
Delivery Tranche I                                    XXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXX
Delivery Tranche II                                                 XXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXX
Books and Materials
Negotlitions                                        XXXXX XXXXX
Acquisition                                                      xxxxxx XXXXXX
Distribution                                                                   Xxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx XXXxxxxxxxxx XXXX
Trainina Abroad
Terms/Reference                       XXXXXX
List/Candidates                              XXXXX
Selection                                          x
ANEFP/Study                           XXXXXX
ANEFP/Maintenance                                       X             X            X                          X
Project Completion - Oecember 31, l995 I
Closing Date - June 30, 1996_
IU45C 'PACf 6



THE OENDCATIC AND POPUAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINrING PRO3ECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Smlementation Schedule
.~~~~~~~~ ~C    aa                                goen  IY  on8        I 8          1 91  22        93              94      9S 
PROGRAMS AND SERVICES
Eautament
Bid Documents                         1987
Advertising/Award                       xxxx xxxx
Delivery and installation
Audio-Visual/INFP                                XXXXXXXX XXX
Repro. Eq./2 IFP                                 XXXXXXXX XXX
Books and Materials
Negotiations                          XXXXXX XXXXX
Acquisition                                  XXXXXXXXXXXX
Distribution                                               XX'-
Technical Assistance
Tenms of Reference                     1987
Selection                             XX
Negotiations                              XX
Exp. in Field:
PSEP/In-service                                    XXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX
New Special1st/Training                                                         XXXX1
Up-grade Curr.                                            XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXX
Audio-Visual                                              XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXYXXXXXX XXXX
Monitor Grad.                                                        XX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXX
Ind. Ext./INOEFE                                                                     XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX
New Spec./Recyc                                                                         X  X       X          X
Apprenticeship                               XXXXX
Method./CKEPC                                                                               X             X            X
Trainina Local
Terms/Reference                                                    XXXX
L ist/Candidates                                                        xxxx
INDEFE                                                                  XXX    XXXXX XXXXX
Inserv. PSEP. PEP                     XXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX xXXMXXDXXXX XXXX
TIrainin Abroad
Terms/Reference                                           XXXX
List/Candidates                                                   XXX
Selection                                                                XXX
INDEFE/PSEP                                                                    XXXXX XXXXX
INFP                                  x
CNEPC                                                                                      XX
WFPT                                                             XX
Project Completion - Decenber 31  1 9g Si
Closing Date - June 30. 1996-
0(456/PACE 7



SCHEDULE I
Page 3 of 3
THE ODEHCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF AL6ERIA
VWATMNAnL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Inlmentation Sehtdula
CY                          I ^ 1 8    90  I    91     1    ! !    1    9:               ,          9
C maint                FY             so899 91                                92           93           94           Os96 
MANAGDMENT MD FINANCIG
Bid Documents                         1987
Advertising/Award                    XXXXXX
Delivery and Installation
INFP Camp. Eq.                              XXXXXXX
ANEFP Camp. Eq.                             XXXXXX
ChEPC Camp. Eq.                             XXXX)XX
INDEFE Camp. Eq.                            XXXXXXX
Technical Assistance
Tenrs of Reference                    1987
Selection                            XXXrYX
Negotiations                            XXX
Expert in Field:
SDFP/MFPT                                    xxx
Publish./INFP                                                 XXXXXX
Comput. Mg./INFP                            XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXX
Hanagement/ANEfP                            XXXXX
Training Prod. Study                        XXXXX
Cost Analyst/WFPT                           XXXXXXXXXX
Trainina Abroad
Terms/Reference                             XXX
List/Candidates                                     XXX
Selection
Maintenance/ANEFP                                                XXxXX XXXXXXX
I Management/INFP                                                        XXXX
Project Management                           XXXXXX      X       X
Project Completion - Deember 31  199S             F
Closing Date - June 30. 1996
.a%. ^. P'At S



- 45 -
ALGERIA                             SCHEDULE I I
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAF.- APPRAISAL REPORT
Technical Assistance i Specialists
Statffonths (CY)
Compent                1988  1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995  Total
ROGRAMS AND SERVICES
. In Service Training             4     12                                           16
. Curriculum Development          3      6       3                                   12
. Audio-visual materials                 6                                            6
. Grad. empl. monitoring                         6                                    6
. Instructional Materials         6      6                                           12
. Training Diagnos. (INDEFE)                    12     24      12                    48
. Correspondance Programs(CNEPC)                        2       2      2              6
. Study of Apprenticeship        12                                                  12
Sous Total                 25    .30      21     26     14       2           118
ANAGEMENI AND FINANCING
. Management Info. S       6     12                                                  18
. Procurement Monit.       4                                                          4
. Project Procur.          2                                                          2
. Cost Control Monitoring        14                                                  14
. Production Work St       6                                                          6
Sous Total          18     26                                                  44
OTAL                      18     51     30      21     26      14      2            162
Technical Assistance s Fellowships
Staffonths (CY)
Compent                1988  1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995  Total
ROGRAMS AND SERVICES
. In Service Training             6      6       6                                   19
. INDEFE staff                          15      1S     15      15                    60
. Employment Specialists                12      12                                   24
Sous Total                  6     33      33     15     1S                   102
ANAGEMENT AND FINANCING
. Management Into. S                     6                                            6
.Procurement               6                                                          6
. Maintenance Specialists                3       3                                    6
. Production Work          6      6      6                                           18
Sous Total          12      6     15       3                                  36
OTAL                      12     12     48      36     1S      15                   136



- 46 -                SCEDULE III
ALGERIA
Vocational Training Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Schedule of Disbursements
I Disbursement Profile
I B R D        I  Disbursements        :              Country   I
FiscalI -------------t---   rhis                     Average in I
Year &         I Quarter    Cumulative I Project       Algeria  I
Quarter        ----- US$ Millions ----------------- * -----------I
FY89           2           a
First            0.00        0.00:         0.0 
Second           2.50 2      2.50 2       4.6 :1
Third     1      0.20 1      2.70 1        5.0 2           I
Fourth           0.30 2      3.00 2        5.6 :       2.0 2
FY90                        
First     :      0.40 2      3.40 :       6.3              I :
Second    :      0.50 2      3.90 1        7.2 2
Third            0.60 2      4.50 :       8.3 5
Fourth    2      0.80 2      5.30 t       9.8 1        8.0 2
FY91           2
First     2      1.20 2      6.50 :       12.0 2           a
Second    2      2.00 2      8.50 2       15.7
Third     2      2.60 1      11.10 2      20.6 2           2
Fourth    :      3.03 2      14.10 2      26.1 2      19.0 2
3===---=t-===          = ===x==========5=====2=== =-=====2=
FY92           2           :                                   2
First     2      3.30 :      17.40 2      32.2 :           :
Second    :      3.40 2     20.80 2       38.5 :           :
Third     2      3.50 2     24.30 :      45.0 1            2
Fourth    2      3.50 1     27.80 2       51.5 2      33.0
FY93           :           a           a           a
First     2      3.80 2     31.60 2       58.5 2           2
Second    2      3.80 2     35.40 2      65.6 1
Third     2      3.60 2     39.00 2       72.2 2
Fourth    2      3.60 2     42.60 2      78.9 2       47.0 2
=__==============_==========--== ~=-=======-======    == ===
FY94           a           a
First     2      3.50 2     46.10 2       85.4             2
Second    2      3.00 2     49.10 2      90.9 :            :
Third     :      2.50 2     51.60 2      95.6 2           :
Fourth    I      0.80 2     52.40 2      97.0 2       59.0 :
FY95
First     2      0.40 2      52.80 2      97.8 :           1
Second    2      0.30 2      53.10 2     98.3 :
Third     2      0.20 2     53.30 2      98.7 :            :
Fourth    :      0.20 2     53.50 :      99.1 2       69.0
FY95           a           a
First     2      0.20 2      53.702       99.4 :
Second    :      0.10 :      53.80 2     99.6 2            2
Third     1      0.10 2     53.90 2       99.8 :
Fourth           0.10        54.00       100.0        77.0
=====Z==t2==2==2==2=2Z2==3=======2==2=2=    =======Z====



- 47 -
SCHEDULE IV
page 1 of 2
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBUC OF ALGERIA
VOCATIONAL TRADIDNG PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Implementation Plan
Item                                   Target Date
Technical Assistance
1. Draft contract forwarded to
the Bank for review                                           September 1, 1988
2.  Short list of selected bidders        Component 3             September 1, 1988
sent to Bank for approval             Component 2             December 1, 1988
3.  Invitations to submit proposals       Component 3             October 1, 1988
from selected companies issued        Component 2             February 1, 1989
by Project Coordinator
4.  Contracts awarded for technical       Component 3             February 1, 1989
assistance reviewed by the Bank       Component 2             June 1, 1989
5.  Technical assistance contract         Component 3             March 1, 1989
signed                                Component 2             July 1, 1989
6. Target completion date for all         Component 3             December 31, 1990
technical assistance                  Component 2             April 1, 1994
004Sgpage 4



- 48                            SCHEDULE IV
page 2 of 2
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
VOCATIONAL TRAIN1NG PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Implementation Plan
Item                                  Tarstet Date
Equipment for the Trainina Institutions
1. Preliminary equipment lists
reviewed by the Bank                                        December 1, 1987
a. Bid documents reviewed by the Bank                            December 1, 1987
3.  Invitation to bid                      Tranche 1             July 1, 1988
Tranche 2             July 1, 1989
4.  Completion of bid evaluation; and    Tranche 1               February 1, 1989
proposed awards reviewed by the Bank Tranche 2               February 1, 1990
5.  Delivery started                       Tranche 1             January 1, 1990
Tranche 2             January 1, 1991
6. Delivery completed                      Tranche 1             December 31, 1993
Tranche 2             December 31, 1994
Equipment - Audio-visual and Computers
1. Preliminary Equipment lists reviewed
by the Bank                                                 December 1, 1987
2.  Bid documents reviewed by the Bank                          December 1, 1987
3.  Invitation to Bid                                           August 1, 1988
4.  Completion of bid evaluation; and
proposed awards reviewed by the Bank                        December 31, 1988
5.  Delivery completed                                           July 1, 1989
Technical Books
1. Start negotitations                                          January 1, 1989
2.  Acquisition of textbooks - Start                            December 31, 1990
3.  Distribution - End                                          December 31, 1993
0045g/pag* S



char L
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Structure of the Education Training Sywstem
Post-Reform Structure
_ - L   i  - I  i  - L-    1 :-o 1 -  Ilniver s  es tL   - I
_   -  -       Basic Education (Ecoles fondamentales)    -   -                    Tesche      niraining   TE) k/
111-    2I   I3 I-I   I-   SI-I 6 I               I       a I    IQI   I            _01 -    
-=IPS hL...                                0
-ILL |-o-LL.I                                B
Institutes nLTechn oIgyt    _A
-LLI   12.1   LLI I       .AJI II            A
U
_J..echnjswu ./_                                                K
T
VwAtional Training          ENSand EUSIL         _T
JOB MAURET AND APPRENTICESHIP
a/ Universities including short courses
It Teacher training: Ci) instructeur, (11) instituteur. and (111) specialist teachers
z/ Technicums or technical lycees. and
g/ ENS and Ecole Normale Suphrifere d'nse1gnement Polytechnique
(technical and science teachers).
00456,OPAE 19s



Chart 2
INSTrrUT NATIONAL DE LA FORMATION PROFESSIONNELLE
ORGANIGRAMI
Conseil d'Administration
Archives Techniques         --Drecteur                           |      |       Consel    agogque
et P&aaooioues                               1  ceIPIogu
Secretalre G&nbral
Dir do la| Directeur do l'Administration
Diretu  de tafes                 IDrterdsEue                                                             Rcrheet de; Finances                          t
Formation    Orientation    Controle    Organisatlon          B.T P |                  Micani quo    raphlques    Recherche   Personnel   Pcnsonoe1
Perfection-   Profession-    Technique       Controle         Bois et    Electricite   t4btal-        emItiers       Pedago-        at         Compta-     toyens
nement          nelle       et Pedago-       Examens     Ameublement      Chimie       lurgie      de l'Habil-      gique    Stagiaires       btlitb    G&n&raux
_iue             Fin Sta_e                           _                     lement
I  Service des Noyens
Service                   Techniques
Arabisation              et Documentatton
004SCXPACE 20



Chart I
AGENCE NATIONALE POUR LES EQUIPE0ENTS OK LA FORWATION PROFESSIOMLLE
ORGANIGRAII4
|   Orecteur
G 6n6ral 
Direction des
Oirection                     Direction de la                            Equipement                                 Oirection
des                         Progran_ation                              et de la                                des Finances
EtudT "  d "  ! rchis                      Marnt "uice                             ~~~~~~~~~~et des Movens
i             ~~~Dvision
Oivision        Etudes           Division         Division        Division        Division         Division         Division         Division
Etudes        et Marches         Oe la             Des          Transit et         Des             De la        Personnel et      Finances et
1'rechniques at       des        Prograammtion       Marches         Transport I Instatlations    Maintenance          Noyens        Comptabtlite
!tNormalisation    Equipements                                                     Techniques                         G&neraux
Techniques  I
P_da_o_i_ues 1 I_                                             I   -_                              _
00v:>v--PAGE 2 )



NOTES



MAP SECTION



Mediterranean                      Sea
MOSTA .,ANCM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mzA~,E TR
/ \\w _,T ~~~~~~~MOSTAGAt                                                                                                 [AN)   VEM'iA  AN  
MEDE1ARET S  t  d  g  2                                         TEBESSA A     P-
<  TtEMCEN   2 SIDI sEl \   SAIDA   t                                                                \    _d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..dTh.K*
)  )   Fo^  \              aok\                   9        /          E t  O U E D         (              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILO#AflERS
MASCARA /                    )                      b         ./         UATNCA          \                            O
TAL                                                                       N GR/8
|~~~~~~LME   SIDIA OF!j[                                                                                                                     |-]e/aF^4   
VOCATIONAL. TRAliNING PROJECT                                                               N,,    ADRAR                            $ /lZ 
n Vocational Training Centern (CPFA)           0     Wiloyc Capitals                                                N\          TaMANGHAssFr T
 Instructor Training Institutes (IFP)         -     Wllaya Boundaries                                                 \,N*T _ 
*z   Maintenance Training instilutes (iTEEM)    -- International Boundaries                                         o      30,0 ..J...|   /.
4Tb7 CWA'Fs at Algt art en, SmAkw BtAaaa Sa-O. (F) Sa GI,em (0) LaMea, Maamnda ad  Has naS-Sri                         0      300              7 
*m 3 ClEW, at Oven are w Matu  v, Sat iment and Ore, (P
ABOfS~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MT18



