Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 17330
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan No. 2977-AL)
January 30, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Algerian Dinar (DZD)
1989 US$1 = DZD08.03
1990 US$1 = DZD12.19
1991  US$1 = DZD21.39
1992 US$1 = DZD22.78
1993 US$1 = DZD24.12
1994 US$1 = DZD42.89
1995 US$1 = DZD52.17
1996 US$1 = DZD56.18
1997 US$1 = DZD60.00
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANEFP               Agence Nationale de l'Emploi et de la Formation Professionnelle
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
MET                 Ministry of Employment and Training
MNSHD               Middle East and North Africa - Human Development Group
MIS                 Management Information System
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President: Kemal Dervi~
Country Director: Christian Delvoie
Sector Director: Jacques Baudouy
Task Manager: Guillermo Hakim



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan 2977-AL)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................... i
I. PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .
A. Project Objectives .
B. Achievement of Project Objectives                                .2
C. Implementation Record                                      .3
D. Project Sustainability                                    .4
E. Bank's Performance                                       .4
F. Borrower's Performance                                     .5
G. Assessment of Outcome .5
H. Future Operation                                       .6
1. Key Lessons Learned                                      .6
1I.  PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES .                        ........................................  8
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments .........................................9
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans ........................................                       10
Table 3:   Project Timetable ........................................                        10
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ...................ii.............. 11
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation ........................................  II
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation ........................................     12
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project ........................................              12
Table 8A: Project Costs ................................................. 13
Table 8B: Project Financing ................................................. 13
Table 9:   Status of Legal Covenants ................................................. 14
Table 10: Compliance With Operational Manual Statements ...........................................  15
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ................................................. 15
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions .................................................      16-19
III.  BORROWER'S REPORT ................................................. 20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan No. 2977-AL)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Vocational Training Project
in the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, for which loan 2977-AL in the amount of
US$54 million was approved on June 24, 1988 and made effective on September 6, 1989. The
loan was closed on June 30, 1997, twelve months after the original closing date of June 30, 1996.
The final disbursement took place on December 24, 1997. Following the refund of the balance of
the Special Account on January 15, 1998, the undisbursed balance of US$6.82 million was
canceled. No cofinancing was provided for the project.
2.    The ICR was prepared by Guillermo Hakim (Human Resources Economist) of the
Human Development Sector of the Middle East and North Africa Region (MNSHD), and was
reviewed by Mr. Jacques Baudouy, Director, Human Development Sector, and Ms. Marlaine
Lockheed, Education Sector Leader. A completion mission was not conducted for the preparation
of this ICR given the security situation prevailing in the country. The ICR is based on material in
the project file and on unverified information received from the Government. The borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation report of the project
and by commenting on the draft ICR.



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan No. 2977-AL)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Vocational Training project was the sixth Bank operation to assist Algeria with
education and training investments. The previous 5 operations in the sector became effective
between 1973 and 1980. This operation was the first in the sector after an 8 year hiatus.
Previous operations supported the creation of technician and engineering training capacity,
technical secondary schools and various institutes, like the Institute for the Promotion of In-
Service Training. By the time the project went to the Board, all 5 previous projects had been
closed, 4 Project Completion Reports were available, and 1 Completion Report was under
preparation. Major lessons learned from past lending included: (i) assigning administration of a
project to a single entity to ensure efficiency during implementation; and (ii) providing training
for decentralization of project responsibilities.
Project Objectives
2.    The Staff Appraisal Report, dated May 26, 1988, stated the project objectives as follows:
(a) to upgrade the network of existing training institutions; (b) to improve the quality of
vocational training programs and enhance their relevance to labor market needs; and (c) to
strengthen the management of the system, control costs and improve financing. To achieve the
proposed objectives, the project included three components:
(a) Training institutions (US$69.8 million. 81.4% of total base costs): Provision of
training equipment, technical books, consumable materials and civil works for training centers
under the Ministry of Education and Training (MET), including 57 Vocational Training Centers,
4 Training Institutes for Trainers, and the Maintenance Training Institute.
(b) Programs and Services (US$15.6 million. 18.2% of total base costs): Provision of
expert services and fellowships to MET to improve the effectiveness of in-service instructor
training, strengthen vocational training programs through improved curriculum design and the
development of instructional materials, and develop a graduate employment monitoring system.
This component also included provision of expert services and fellowships to strengthen the
effectiveness of in-company training, and a study of the development of apprenticeship training.
(c) Management and Finances (US$1.1 million. 1.3% of total base costs): Provision of
microcomputers, software and expert service to MET to: develop a computerized system for
equipment procurement and maintenance; develop a vocational training management information



ii
system; improve the effectiveness of in-service training for management teams; and to undertake
a study of the development of production in the training centers.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The project's outcome is assessed as unsatisfactory; it has not yielded and is not expected
to yield substantial development results. The physical rehabilitation and equipment of training
centers has been largely attained despite long delays in implementation. But the key development
objective, enhancing the relevance of training programs to labor market needs, has been
unsatisfactory despite some modest progress stemming from various activities implemented
during the life of the project. Similarly, although several activities were undertaken, the
strengthening of training system management, cost control and improved financing have not
been achieved. The project as conceived in the SAR is not sustainable. A training system
designed to provide services to a large number of dropouts from general education is the wrong
policy response to what is fundamentally a problem in general education. Rather than changing
the orientation of the public training system as was needed, the project aimed at improving its
functioning.
4.    Major factors affecting achievement of the project's objectives were: (i) the lack of
commitment on the part of the Borrower to carry out the technical assistance during the first half
of the project; (ii) high turnover of key players and Borrower's weak implementation capacity;
(iii) an adverse overall political and security situation prevented the Bank from conducting field
supervision and limited technical assistance by foreign suppliers. The Bank's performance
varied throughout the various preparation and supervision stages. Adequate time was devoted to
identification and preparation but key risks associated with the operation, such as the supply-
driven nature of the training system, were not identified at appraisal. The Borrower's
implementing capacity and commitment to technical assistance were overestimated at appraisal.
Until the mid-term review the Bank's supervision was adequate and satisfactory, identifying key
problems in a timely fashion. After the mid-term review, security restrictions to field supervision
missions resulted in supervision being conducted outside the country. This affected the Bank's
ability to assess project status.
5.    The Borrower's performance was effective and fast in bidding procedures and signing
contracts for equipment. Reception, delivery and installation of equipment to training centers
was however a major problem. Cumbersome internal procedures delayed supplier payments,
many conflicts with suppliers developed, and the Bank's procurement guidelines were not
always respected. This led to further delays in implementation. The Borrower's early lack of
commitment to technical assistance prevented the project from achieving its development
objectives. By the time a new Government recognized the importance of technical assistance,
the security and political situation had deteriorated to the point that implementation was very
difficult.



iii
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
6.    Project design can in part be blamed for the poor outcomes in terms of development
objectives. With the project's emphasis more on reequipping training centers than on reforming
the training system, the authorities were able to completely ignore technical assistance at the start
of implementation. During most of its life, the project was essentially a "bricks and mortar"
operation. Project design contained no synergy between components leading to an overall
objective.
7.    Project objectives focused on making the existing training system work more efficiently,
but shied away from proposing a reform of the system. The SAR assumed that despite the rapid
expansion of public training in the past and the economic recession, the Government's
quantitative training targets were still valid. The SAR did not analyze prevailing conditions in
the labor market, the predominance of public enterprises, or the reduced size of the private sector
and its implications for vocational training. Nor did it assess the Government's economic and
employment objectives. In fact, Algeria's GDP per capita declined continuously for almost a
decade, the economy collapsed and unemployment soared. During the implementation of the
project a new economic reality became prevalent, rendering the project's original objectives
inadequate. Project objectives are clearly not the result of a reform strategy. The project lacked
an alternative paradigm towards which it would help the training system to evolve.
8.    The project was designed for eight years of implementation, an unusually long period for
a human development project in general and for a vocational training project in particular.
Economic and social conditions in Algeria changed substantially during project implementation.
9.    During the first three years of implementation, there were three project coordinators and
five different vocational training ministers. The project director lacked an implementation team.
The commitment towards technical assistance was not very strong. Because all training abroad,
technical assistance, and some studies were delayed, project executing agencies could not
strengthen their implementing capacity.
10.   The Algerian authorities have expressed their intention to carry out the recommendations
from various studies, particularly on cost control, management and on the monitoring of
graduates' insertion. Activities financed under the project, including the operation of the network
of training centers, are part of the activities under the Ministry of Vocational Training, and as
such they will continue to be financed as part of the ministry's activities. What is lacking up to
now is a strategic vision of where the system should evolve to. In the future, training activities in
Algeria will have to answer the question of how to identify the demand for training. The training
system will have to adapt to Algeria's economic transition from a centrally planned, supply-
driven system to a market-driven economy. Emphasis should be placed on the development of
retraining workers displaced by downsizing and privatization and on short term, enterprise based
training programs. Private sector participation in the management of a public network of training
centers needs to be encouraged. This approach has not yet been discussed with the Algerian
authorities.



iv
Lessons for future projects include:
11.   Pre-employment training projects should be based on enterprise demand and on cost-
sharing from enterprises and trainees, regardless of whether the programs are actually carried out
by public or private institutions. It is also key to recognize the trade-off existing between the
urgency of lending to restart dialog in a particular sector, and ensuring the appropriate quality at
entry.
*  Projects in the human development sector with long implementation periods should be
avoided. A project with a long implementation period entails a heightened risk of exposure to
unexpected changes in the economic, political and social environment. In addition, the longer
the implementation period, the more likely it is that changes will occur in the government's
sector policies, strategies and priorities. This is particularly true for a project that is a first
operation in the sector.
*  The implementation capacity of national institutions should be rigorously assessed. Project
design should allow for greater emphasis in ensuring appropriate local implementation
capacity.
* When the national political and security situation deteriorates to the extent that no
supervision can be carried out in the field, the risk of the project not achieving its
development objectives increases. Cancellation or restructuring to allow project completion
in a shorter period could reduce risk. This implies a more proactive supervision effort than in
a project not affected by such factors.
*  Monitoring indicators and impact evaluations with clear methodologies should be defined by
appraisal at the latest.
*  Adequate analysis of the prevailing labor market conditions must be at the center of project
design in the vocational training sector.
* A vocational training project cannot be designed in isolation of what is happening in other
sectors: general education, employment, and economic reform. The ideal environment for a
vocational training project is that in which the education system is performing well, and there
is rapid, private sector led economic growth and employment generation. If any of these
elements are not present, the chances for success of a training project are considerably
diminished.
An eventual successor project would need to help the Algerian training system transit from a
supply to a demand driven system. To accomplish this, it would need to stress the creation of a
policy environment containing incentives for active private sector participation in various forms:
as managers of training centers, as direct providers of training and as partners in enterprise-based
schemes.  The vast network of public training centers would need to be scaled down.
Simultaneous reductions in the number of dropouts from general education and a significant



v
increase in job creation in the private sector are required.  Without a favorable overall
macroeconomic environment and economic reform, the chances of success for any training sector
operation are slim.






DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan No. 2977-AL)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Project Objectives
1.    The Staff Appraisal Report, dated May 26, 1988, stated the project objectives as
follows: (a) to upgrade the network of existing training institutions; (b) to improve the
quality of vocational training programs and enhance their relevance to labor market
needs; and (c) to strengthen the management of the system, control costs and improve
financing. The project was the first operation after a seven-year hiatus of Bank lending in
the human development sector in Algeria.
2.    To achieve the proposed objectives, the project included three components:
(a) Training institutions (US$69.8 million. 81.4% of total base costs): Provision of
training equipment, technical books, consumable materials and civil works for training
centers under the Ministry of Education and Training (MET), including 57 Vocational
Training Centers, 4 Training Institutes for Trainers and, the Maintenance Training
Institute.
(b) Programs and Services (US$15.6 million, 18.2% of total base costs):
Provision of expert services and fellowships to MET to improve the effectiveness of in-
service instructor training, strengthen vocational training programs through improved
curriculum design and the development of instructional materials, and develop a graduate
employment monitoring system. This component also included provision of expert
services and fellowships to strengthen the effectiveness of in-company training, and a
study of the development of apprenticeship training.
(c) Management and Finances (US$1.1 million. 1.3% of total base costs):
Provision of micro-computers, software and expert service to MET to develop a
computerized system for equipment procurement and maintenance; to develop a
vocational training management information system; to improve the effectiveness of in-
service training for management teams, and to undertake a study of the development of
production in the training centers.



2
B.   Achievement of Project Objectives
3.    By the time the project went to the Board in 1989, the vocational training system
had already undergone significant expansion in the context of a planned economy
strongly dependent on hydrocarbon exports. The justification for this expansion was
based on government manpower projections which concluded that a shortage of skilled
manpower existed with regard to some of the government's development targets. The
project SAR stated that the project would not contribute to system expansion but to
enhancing its quality and relevance to labor market needs. The results however show that
the project contributed to 7,000 new training posts and achieved very little of its quality
and labor market relevance objectives.
4.   (a) Upgrading the network of existing training institutions. Physical facilities for
training were rehabilitated, re-equipped and resupplied with new training materials and
books, thus achieving implementation targets for the first component. In terms of new
equipment, 251 of the 264 workshops originally planned received equipment and had
their training programs operational by the end of the project. Equipment for the training
of trainers was also delivered and installed. This objective was achieved. Long delays in
equipment delivery however delayed the start of training in many centers.
Implementation problems are discussed in a subsequent section.
(b) Improving the quality of vocational training programs and enhancing their
relevance to labor market needs. Two major problems prevented achievement of the
objective in this component. First, many of the project financed activities were solely
studies without any financing for implementation of recommendations (i.e. the study on
development of apprenticeship training). For instance, while surveys of vocational
training graduates insertion rates were conducted, no permanent monitoring system was
put in place. Second, technical assistance was delayed until very late in project
implementation. When the political will to carry out technical assistance was finally
established, the political and security situation had deteriorated drastically, to the point
that foreign consulting firms were exercising extreme caution in becoming involved in
project activities requiring in-country travel. One of the key activities to develop links
between the training system and enterprises, i.e. technical assistance to strengthen the
effectiveness of in-company training, was never carried out.
(c) Strengthening the management of the training system. control costs and
improved financing.  The computerized system  for procurement and equipment
maintenance failed to materialize. This would have greatly improved the performance of
the National Equipment Procurement Agency (ANEFP). The design of a Management
Information System (MIS) was completed towards the end of the project, but it was not
implemented. A study on cost control and monitoring was completed, but there was no
follow up on the recommendations and by project's end no permanent cost control and
monitoring system had been established. Finally, as an effort to improve the financing of
the training system the project proposed a study on the development of production
activities in the training centers. This was never carried out.



3
5.    Project design can in part be blamed for the poor outcomes in terms of
development objectives. With the projects emphasis more on reequipping training
centers than on reforming the training system, the authorities were able to completely
ignore technical assistance at the start of implementation. During most of its life, the
project was essentially a "bricks and mortar" operation. In the absence of strong
implementation links between project components to achieve the overall objective of
enhancing training relevance, it was possible to vigorously pursue the physical aspects of
implementation while completely disregarding technical assistance. Project design
contained no synergy between components leading to an overall objective.
6.    The SAR assumed that despite the rapid expansion of public training in the past
and the economic recession, the Government's quantitative training targets were still
valid.  The SAR did not analyze prevailing conditions in the labor market, the
predominance of public enterprises, or the reduced size of the private sector and its
implications for vocational training. Nor did it assess the Government's economic and
employment objectives. In fact, Algeria's GDP per capita declined continuously for
almost a decade, the economy collapsed and unemployment soared.  During the
implementation of the project a new economic reality became prevalent, rendering the
project's original objectives inadequate.
C.   Implementation Record
7.    The project was designed for eight years of implementation, an unusually long
period for a human development project in general and for a vocational training project in
particular. While procurement for the first component of the project moved quickly, with
contracts for most training center equipment concluded by the third year, technical
assistance was neglected. During the first three years of implementation, there were three
project coordinators and five different vocational training ministers. The project director
lacked an implementation team. Because all training abroad, technical assistance, and
some studies were delayed, project executing agencies could not strengthen their
implementing capacity.
8.    Project implementation also suffered from the poor performance of the ANEFP.
This agency is responsible for procurement, installation and maintenance of equipment
for all training institutions under the project. Its poor performance resulted in long delays
in the installation of equipment in the training centers. Equipment was left for as long as
two years in customs, in part due to a confusion whether the Agency should pay the tariff
on the imported educational equipment. In other cases equipment cleared customs and
was delivered to the training centers but was not installed for months. Numerous disputes
with suppliers about the quality of equipment National Equipment Procurement Agency,
tardiness in its installation, and delays in payments can be partially attributed to poor
planning and cumbersome administrative procedures. Implementation also suffered from
high turnover among government officials responsible for the project, and from their lack
of familiarity with Bank procurement procedures.



4
D.    Project Sustainability
9.    The project as conceived in the SAR is not sustainable. Economic and labor
conditions in Algeria have changed drastically since Board approval in 1989. A large
public training sector, designed to provide training services to a large number of general
education dropouts, is no longer viable. The achievements of the project in relation to its
major development objectives are unsatisfactory. An eventual successor project would
need to help the training system transit from a supply to a demand driven system. To
accomplish this, it would need to stress the creation of a policy environment containing
incentives for active private sector participation in various forms: as managers of training
centers, as direct providers of training and as partners in enterprise-based schemes. The
vast network of public training centers would need to be scaled down. Simultaneous
reductions in the number of dropouts from general education and a significant increase in
job creation in the private sector are required.   Without a favorable overall
macroeconomic environment and economic reform, the chances of success for any
training sector operation are slim.
E.    Bank's Performance
10.   The Bank's performance during identification was satisfactory in that it was
consistent with the government's development strategies and priorities. To a lesser extent,
it was also consistent with the Bank's strategy in Algeria, i.e. to give priority to
manpower development programs. However, the Bank did at the time recognize that the
development of skilled training programs should not be driven by the supply of grade 9
leavers who do not reach secondary education. This concern was not properly addressed
in the design of the project. During project preparation, project design was modified to
accommodate the Government's request for a larger loan without questioning its supply
side strategy.
11.   During appraisal, the government's commitment to the technical assistance
components was overestimated, as was its implementation capacity (particularly in the
case of ANEFP).  Project design did not ensure that all components would be
implemented simultaneously. Project design thus more resembled the juxtaposition of
three separate individual components than one integrated project. The SAR identified no
project specific risks, although various Bank internal correspondence highlighted the risk
associated with yet another supply driven project and weak national institutional capacity.
The appraisal team failed to account for these concerns in designing the project.
12.   The financial package was heavily weighted toward the physical component. The
second and third components, those supposed to enhance system quality, were allocated
18.2% and 1.3% of total base costs respectively. Implementation plans were adequate,
but no performance indicators were established. Finally, the appraisal team should have
assessed whether the executing agency would be required to pay tariffs on imported
equipment, and how these should be budgeted.



5
13.   Until the mid-term review the Bank's supervision was adequate and satisfactory,
identifying key problems in a timely fashion. Problems were identified quickly,
particularly the government's lack of commitment to technical assistance and the lack of
capacity of ANEFP. Remedial measures were proposed, but only after a new Minister
was appointed in late 1993 was the political will to deal with these issues established.
Immediately following the mid-term review, security restrictions mandated cancellation
of field supervision missions. After that, the Bank was not able to send a single
supervision mission to the field. Supervision was conducted by holding meetings with
Algerian counterparts either at Bank Headquarters in Washington DC, or in Tunis.
F.    Borrower's Performance
14.   As noted above, there was frequent turnover of senior project staff during the first
three years of implementation. Despite this, during the first two years construction
activities and contracts for new equipment were speedily handled by the Algerian
authorities. Implementation problems appeared soon after. On the physical component,
once new training center equipment started arriving in Algiers, ANEFP proved incapable
of clearing the equipment through customs, and of delivering and installing it in the
training centers. In part this can be attributed to confusion about legislation requiring
payment of duties for all imported equipment. Equipment was thus left in customs for
extended periods, delaying education activities in the training centers. In some cases,
equipment delivered to the training centers remained in boxes for months before being
installed. Payment delays to suppliers - due to cumbersome procedures of the BAD - and
disagreements on technical specifications resulted in numerous conflicts with suppliers.
Technical assistance much needed for the ANEFP came late in the project.
15.   Technical assistance and training abroad were delayed in a crucial moment for the
project. After the political will to conduct the technical assistance was reestablished,
precious time had already been lost.  The security situation discouraged foreign
consulting services from traveling within Algeria, and lack of familiarity with Bank
procurement guidelines delayed and in some cases impeded implementation of technical
assistance. Concerning audits for project accounts, the Government submitted them on
time and no observations by the Bank were made. In order to avoid paying commitment
fees on funds that would have not been disbursed any way, the Government requested the
cancellation of US$5 million in January 1997 and of US$1.3 million in March 1997.
G.   Assessment of Outcome
16.   The project's outcome is assessed as unsatisfactory, since the project has not
yielded and is not expected to yield substantial development results. Although surveys on
graduates' insertion were conducted, a permanent system to monitor graduates'
employment does not yet exist. Similarly, a system for cost control and monitoring is not
yet in place. No rate of return analysis was conducted at appraisal, nor for this report,
but given overall high unemployment rates, low insertion rates among graduates, and the
high unit costs associated with training, a negative return is likely.



6
H.    Future Operation
17.   The Algerian authorities have expressed their intention to carry out the
recommendations from various studies, particularly on cost control, management and on
the monitoring of graduates' insertion. Activities financed under the project, including the
operation of the network of training centers, are part of the activities under the Ministry
of Vocational Training, and as such they will continue to be financed as part of the
ministry's activities. What is lacking up to now is a strategic vision of where the system
should evolve to. In the future, training activities in Algeria will have to answer the
question of how demand for training can be identified. The training system will have to
adapt to the national economic transition from a centrally planned, supply-driven system
to a market-driven economy. Emphasis should be placed on developing retraining
mechanisms for workers displaced because of downsizing and privatization, and on short-
term, enterprise-based training programs. Private sector participation in managing the
network of public training centers needs to be encouraged. This approach has not yet
been discussed with the Algerian authorities.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
18.   Pre-employment training projects should be based on enterprise demand and on
cost-sharing from enterprises and trainees, regardless of whether the programs are
actually carried out by public or private institutions. It is also key to recognize the trade-
off existing between the urgency of lending to restart dialog in a particular sector, and
ensuring the appropriate quality at entry.
*  Projects in the human development sector with long implementation periods should
be avoided. A project with a long implementation period entails a heightened risk of
exposure to unexpected changes in the economic, political and social environment. In
addition, the longer the implementation period, the more likely it is that changes will
occur in the government's sector policies, strategies and priorities. This is particularly
true for a project that is a first operation in the sector.
*  The implementation capacity of national institutions should be rigorously assessed.
Project design should allow for greater emphasis in ensuring appropriate local
implementation capacity.
*  When the national political and security situation deteriorates to the extent that no
supervision can be carried out in the field, the risk of the project not achieving its
development objectives increases. Cancellation or restructuring to allow project
completion in a shorter period could reduce risk. This implies a more proactive
supervision effort than in a project not affected by such factors.



7
+ Monitoring indicators and impact evaluations with clear methodologies should be
defined by appraisal at the latest.
* Adequate analysis of the prevailing labor market conditions must be at the center of
project design in vocational training sector.
* A vocational training project cannot be designed in isolation of what is happening in
other sectors: general education, employment, and economic reform. The ideal
environment for a vocational training project is that in which the education system is
performing well, and there is rapid, private sector led economic growth and
employment generation. If any of these elements are not present, the chances for
success of a training project are considerably diminished.
* An eventual successor project would need to help the Algerian training system transit
from a supply to a demand driven system. To accomplish this, it would need to stress
the creation of a policy environment containing incentives for active private sector
participation in various forms: as managers of training centers, as direct providers of
training and as partners in enterprise-based schemes. The vast network of public
training centers would need to be scaled down. Simultaneous reductions in the
nuumber of dropouts from general education and a significant increase in job creation
in the private sector are required. Without a favorable overall macroeconomic
environment and economic reform, the chances of success for any training sector
operation are slim.



8
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan No. 2977-AL)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART II
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:              Summary of Assessments
Table 2:              Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:              Project Timetable
Table 4:              Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:              Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:              Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:              Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:             Project Costs
Table 8B:             Project Financing
Table 9:              Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:             Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 11:             Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 12:             Bank Resources: Missions



9
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial           Partial         Negligible                      Not Applicable
Macro policies                                                                                               X
Sector policies                                                           X
Financial objectives                                                                                         X
Physical objectives                                     X
Poverty reduction                                                                                            X
Gender issues                                                                                                X
Other social objectives                                                                                      X
Environmental objectives                                                                                     X
Public sector management                                                                                     x
Private sector development                                                                                   X
Other (specify)                                                                                              X
B. Project Sustainability             Likely             Unlikely                           Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance             Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory                         Deficient
Identification                                          X
Preparation Assistance                                                                      X
Appraisal                                                                                   X
Supervision                                                                                 X
D. Borrower Performance         Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory                         Deficient
Identification                                          X
Implementation                                                                              X
Covenant Compliance                                     X
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessement of Outcome       Highly Satisfactory    Satisfacto                         Unsaisfaty           Highl
Unsactisfactorvy
x



10
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan Title                  Purpose            Year of Approval           Status
Preceding Operations          The project was to           June 1978               Closed
1. Fourth Education          increase the supply of
graduate level
mechanical engineers
and higher technicians
and to assist in the
development of
secondary technical
teachers and vocational
instructors training.
Following Operations
NA
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle                    Date Planned          Date Actual
Identification                                               12/31/86             12/31/86
Preparation                                                 03/27/87              03/27/87
Appraisal                                                   07/10/87              07/10/87
Negotiations                                                05/10/88              05/10/88
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)                  NA                    NA
Board Presentation                                          06/24/88              06/24/88
Signing                                                     04/07/89              04/07/89
Effectiveness                                               09/06/89              09/06/89
First tranche release (if applicable)                         NA                    NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                                NA                    NA
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)            NA                    NA
Project completion                                          06/30/97              06/30/97
Loan closing                                                 10/30/97             10/30/97



11
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS:
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
FY90        FY91       FY92         FY93        FY94         FY95        FY96         FY97         FY98
Appraisal Estimate          3.0        273         8.8          13.7        14.8         98                       0.5          0.0
Actual                      2.5         0.0        14.6         14.5         2.5         2.9          0.4          2.2         1.47
Actual as % of estimate    83%         0%         166%         106%         17%o        29%          35%         438%
Date of final disburs.
TABLE 5S KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key implementation indicators in SAR/President's
Report                                  Estimated                        Actual
2.
3.                                                               NA                             NA
Modified indicators
(if applicable)
1.
2.
3                                                                NA                             NA
Other Indicators                                NA                             NA
(if applicable)
I1.
2.
3.                                                               NA                             NA



12
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Key operating indicators in SAR/President's
Report                             Estimated                    Actual
2.
3.                                                                      . 
3                                                         X                          Xl
Modified indicators                         X                          X
(if applicable)                                                                    .
1.
2.
32                                                        x                          x
Modified indicators for future operations (if          X                          X
applicable)
2.
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Purpose as defined at
Study              appraisal/redefined            Status               Impact of Study
1. Monitoring system of    Conduct periodic reviews   Done                 Unclear
CFPA graduates           of graduates'insertion
2. Development of a      Assessment of the        Done                     unknown
system of apprenticeship   existing apprentiship
programs
3. Creation of a MIS     Monitor student flows,   Done                     very limited
system for vocational    availability of materials
training                 and unit costs.
4. Development of        Mobilization of          Dropped
production activities    additional resources for
integrated to training in   the VT system (in
the CFPAs                addition to Budgetary
transfers).
*  Training program evaluation
*  Labor market insertion of graduates
*  Training feedback from and to enterprises
•  Automated management information systems for equipmenet procurement and staff
deployment
* Project pilot programs (inservice training of instructors and trainers).



13
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                  Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Item
Local costs     Foreign         Total       Local costs      Foreign         Total
costs                                       costs
Refurbishing and Equipment                     35.3           50.7           86.0   0 2            35.6           35.8
Books & Materials                               0.2            I.I            1.3   0.4            3.2            3.6
Technical Assistance                             --             1.8           1.8   0.3             1.9           2.2
Training Local                                 11.8                          118   0.1             0              0.1
Training Abroad                                  --            04             0.4   0              0.4            0.4
TOTAL                                          47.3           54.0          101.3   1.0            41.1           42.1
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                  Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Source
Local costs     Foreign         Total       Local costs      Foreign         Total
costs                                       costs
Government                             47.3                          47.3           NA             NA             NA
World Bank                                            54.0           54.0           NA             NA             NA
TOTAL                                  47.3            54.0           101.3         NA             NA             NA



14
TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original     Revised
Covenant      Present     Fulfillment   fulfillment      Description of
Agreement      Section        Type         Status         date         date             covenaant            Comments
Sectoral     CP             12!31/89                   The Borrower shall.    Borrower agreed
3.03                       regulatory                                             nIot later than         to engage
December 31. 1989,     consultants no
employ all consultants   later than first
to assist the Borrower    quarter of 1995.
in carrying out Part C  Currently
of the project         underway.
3.04                       Sectoral      CD                                       The Borrower shall      Done.
regulatory                                            take all steps necessary
to ensure that the
number of CFPA
instructors receiving
in-service training
every year increases to
reach one-third of all
such instructors by
1992.
3.05A                      Sectoral      CD            12/31/90      12/31/91     T'he Borrower shall no    Date amended to
regulatory                                            later than December     December 3 1,
31, 1990 take all      1991. Ref. B.5
necessary steps to     received 11/95.
complete and furnish   Ref. C.5 being
to the Bank for its    undertaken.
review, the studies
under Parts B.5 and
C.5 of the project.
3.05B                      Sectoral      CP            12/31/90      12/31/91     The Borrower shall      Date amended to
regulatory                                            take into consideration   December 31,
that Bank's comments   1991. Studies for
in implementing the    B.5 presently
recommendations of     under review by
said studies.          Bank. Study
under C.5 is
underway.
4.02                       Sectoral      CD                                       The Borrower shall:     Seven progress
regulatory                                            (a) prepare semi-       reports received
annual reports on the  with one year
progress of the project   delay.
according to a format
agreed upon; and (b)
furnish such reports to
the Bank within 45
days after the end of
each such six-month
period.
*   C:             Complied with
*   CD:            Compliance after delay
*   NC:            Not complied with
*   SOON:          Compliance expected in reasonably short time
*   CP:            Complied with partially
*   NYD:           Not yet due



15
TABLE 10: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement number & Title                      Describe & comment on lack of compliance
NA                                                    NA
TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned                    Revised                    Actual
Stage of Project Cycle
Weeks         US$          Weeks          US$         Weeks         US$
Through appraisal                                                                       91.6       232.8
Appraisal - Board                                           6.4                                     16.6
,,...-  .                             .........-..--.................. . I
......   ,,{-: :-   ::  ,   , .   --   - ~~~~~~~~~~~... ..........
Board - Effectiveness            . ..   .                          . ...
Supervision                                                                  .......   94.5        308.3
.  ,  ,  2  ...... ,, , ,,,,.,. ,.. ...    . .   .,  ............l
Completion                                                  9.0           27.3         4.3          10.2
TOTAL                                                       9.0           27.3        196.8        567.9



16
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance
Stage of Project Cycle                                                                rating          Types of problems
MIY      No.    Days in        Specialized
persons   field     staff skills represented
Implem.   Develop
status    object.
Through Appraisal                     11/86   2        8        Education Economist,                        No significant
Architect                                  project issues.
Concerns over the
pace at which
Ministry of
Vocational
Training and
Labor (MOVTL)
can complete the
necessary project
preparation
activities.
3/87    3         14      Education Economist,                        MOVTL requests
Architect, Education                       assistance for a
Planner                                    larger program
involving both re-
equipping of
existing VTCs,
equipping new
VTCs, as well as
Instructor
Training
Institutes.
Mission's concern
is to keep the
project at an
acceptable and
manageable size.
7/87    5        20       Education Economist;                       No major issues.
Architect, Education                       MOVTL attempts
Planner, Consultants                       to resist pressures
to expand the
system to absorb
all graduates from
basic education.
Appraisal through Board approval      12/87    1       2        Director                                    Concem that in
the Ministry of
Education,
vocational
training would
lose its close link
to the labor
market and its
orientation of
forming students
directly to take
l______  _______I jobs.
2/88    2        3        Education Economist,                        Project stalled
Division Chief                             since the
November cabiner



17
reshuffle. in
which
responsibility for
"adult" and
"youth" training
programs
supprted under
the project was
split up between
the two ministries
(Ministry of
Education and
Ministry of
Training, Labor
and Social
Affairs). Concern
that job-oriented
character of the
vocational
training center
network would be
diluted.
Board approval through effectiveness
Supervision                            10/89    2        4        Education Specialist,    1         1         N/A
Economist
1/90     1        5        Education Specialist     I         I         N/A
Back-to-Office   5/90     2        2        Education Specialist,    N/A       N/A       Red tape
Consultant                                  procedures on
disbursement
issues.
10/90    1        6        Education Specialist     I         I         Workshop
rehabilitation
program behind
scheduled,
progressing too
slowly and not
adequately
monitored. This
is due to lack of
clear
responsibilities
and commitments
assigned to the
various
authorities
involved with
project
implementation.
5/91     1        9        Education Specialist     I         I         Delays in
disbursements
due to
inexperience of
staff and
clearance
procedures within
the Banque
Algerienne de
Developpement.
2192     1        4        Education Specialist     2         2         Recent political
developments is
causing delay in



18
project
implementation,
in addition to
weak
management
quality and
structure of the
executing
agencies, high
turnover of key
higher level staff
and subsequent
delay of
decisions, failure
to execute studies
and training
programs as
agreed under the
TA program, and
Borrower's
reluctance to use
intemational
experts for short-
term support.
5/92    2         5        Education Specialist    2          2         The Ministry of
Employment and
Vocational
Training (MEFP)
has had 3
different ministers
over the past 12
months, which
has delayed a
number of
important
decisions. Project
implementation
problems related
to financial and
human resource
management are
closely l inked to
MEFP budget
constraints and
the destabilized
political situation.
11/92    2        5        Education Specialist,   2         2          Non-allocation of
Admin. Assistant                             project resources
for TA on: (i)
management and
research; (ii) cost
and financing
mechanisms; and
(iii) improving
on-the-job
training for higher
level staff.
Back-to-Office - Mid-term review    5/93   5         13      Human Resources          N/A       N/A       Execution of
Economist, Division                         some studies, and
Chief, Education                             all training abroad
Specialist,                                 and TA have been
Procurement                                  delayed or have
Specialist, Consultant                       not yet started;
_______________________________________   ________  ~~I                      I         I insufficient



19
institutional
strengthening of
project
implementing
institutions; and
lack of project
management unit
with the means
and decision
making authority
for efficient
project
implementation.
Poor performance
of govemment's
procurement
agency.
Back-to-Office   10/94   II      Wash   Projects Advisor,       N/A       N/A      Remedial actions
DC      Human Resources                           being undertaken
Economist.                               ref. previous
Economist, Education                      mission.
Specialist,
Implementation
Specialist,
Procurement
Specialist, Consultant
4/95    2        4       Human Resources        S         U        Political situation
Economist,                                has restricted
Implementation                            activities,
Specialist                                particularly those
involving foreign
suppliers.
12/95    1      Wash   Human Resources          S         U        TA component
DC      Economist                                 has experienced
delays due to a
large extent to the
complex security
situation.
Completion ICR Status               1/98    N/A      N/A      N/A                    U        U         ICR being
processed. No
ICR mission
undertaken due to
security situation.



20
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan No. 2977-AL)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART III
BORROWER'S REPORT



REPBLIOUE ALGi  DEMOCRATIQuE ET POPUAE
MINISTERE DU TRAVAIL. DE LA PROTECTION SOCLALE
ET DE LA FORMATION PROFESSIONNELLE
SECRETARIAT D'ETAT A LA FORMATION PROFESSIONNELLE
PROJET DE FORMAON PROFSIOL
N02977 AL FIANCE   PET BIRD
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
JUILETZ9T
;,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ruruz"



SOAIRE
1- tEABDX.. .. .. . .. . . ........................ ,.0
2- PRESENTATXON DU PROJ.T.                             **O  ....... . a * * .***.. Q0
3 -ETAT D'ISXNCUTZON DU PROT       .. .. *.             0Z
3.1- SITVATXON PEYSIQUZ ...............  0*
a/ Volote  qulpements tocha.co-p&fagoglques.... 02
b/ Yo2et assistance techacque ............ 03
3.2- SITUATZON FIZ&CZZpE. ......................... 0(
O/ Volet 6quipewents tochaico-pEdagoglqueg.... 06
bl Volet assistazes technique .........07
4  C-QNTRtAxINTES zIBES A LI'2XECUTZON DU PROJIT ............ 7OT
5- SITUATION DES CONTRAS BZTIGIEUX,
RtNLATIFS A Z'ACQUXSITIOl DES EQV7IPZZNTS
T-RcI'Cc0- PEDAGOGIQr2S ......... a . .... se .. ..   or
6- CONCLUSION  1..  * .. *. ..  ...*.
7,- A2J BS .................... .......Z
7.1/ ConaIstance du program.e d'acguistelon
des £quipaments teachico-jddagoglqueJ..3...... 3
7.2/ Bizprtition, par foumiaseurx, deu lota
.r1atfifs au pogramme d'acquiLs ton deJ
Equipementa techico*-pidagoglguea..  6.....
7.3/ Ripartition des lots relatifs au progaMme
d acquis£iton des 6quipements tec.b4co-
pidagoglques, destinis aux Instltuta...... ...16
7.4/ Planning de zEalUoation de. sectiona
d'Egquipeneit tecah:=o-p4dagog1qu..e ...... 19
7.5/ Ripart:tion actuelle, par CPPA, ceU
moctions d 'Equipement technico-p"dAogIquo... .21
7.6/ Situation des contra t d'acqul.Ltio:
des Squipemezte techzico-pidagogiquez,a.... ...22
7. 7/ Situat4on des ezgagaae.ea at des pa1.aeztu,
au 30/06/1997, du prograr=  d'acqu.ieltio
des eqiuip.ment. t.chzlco-;pdagogiques. ...e. .23
7.8/ Ztat do, cautions rapat:ifesp nuZaXitiv
aux coatrate litigleux d'acquisaglw -n.
don Equzlpements tech.Lco-V&dagog1qu#x........ .24
7.9/ Situation des contrats d1asmitaxtean
technique.                                     2S
7.10/ Situatlon des ogagementa et don
palements :.latifs au ;rogra.e
d aamistazce technique ......
7.21/ Situation f1ianciar. du prozet,
au 30/06/1997                                  27



1-PRRAZGLTE:
Le prisent document a pour objet la pr6sentatfoa
du   rapport  d'ach&vement  du   projet  de  £orzatioc
profesasionelle ZnO 2977-AL, flnanc6 sur prit B.X.E.D.
I1 rise notament a ervaluer 1'6tat d'IeZ6aueioC
et 1'atteinte des objectifs aZBign6a au projet ainui qu
11Xhpact des rzsultatge obtenua sur le diveloppeant de
1 'appareil de fomatSioz profesaiome2le.
2- PRZSZ1sTON DUT PROYET
-L'accord de pret n° 2977-AZ, relatif au projee ce
fonoatlon professlonnelle, a eti sign8   an 1.989, antre la
RJpublique Algirie.ne  Dimocratigue  et Populalre et In
Banque  Internationale  pour  la  Reconstructioa  eat  l
Dree loppeene t .
-Le projet a ete mls en oeuve en 1990 et aa dcate dewc
cl8ture,  fixee  Init ialeenent au  30  Juin  1996, a  Etc
repoxtde au 30 aumn 1997, ii. la demande de la pa.re1.
algEx4enne, en vue de permettre 1'achaveznent du projet,.
par l.'asawanissement de cereaines uituations litigieeuas
avec  Lea  fouralaseurg  terangers  et 1. 1a.nceaeue de&
contrats relatifa i la dezv4are phase du projet.
-Loe  objectafg asaig=5 au projet gont lea snimta =
*  AoJalorer  le  r5seau  d 'tablisseaetu       v
forma tion professazwOnelle.
*  Amfillorer  la  qualiet  des  proga e
foxration professionnelle en lea adaptant dmvaLtage
aux besoing du aarchd du travail.
* Renforcer la gestion, la maftrise des cof te .e
le  financenent dans  le  Secteur  de  la  Fouati=
Profesgionae le..
- 01 -



* 6 contrats arec des fourniameurs nationaux.
* 29 contrats avec des fouzisseurs etrangers.
* 2 bons de comzmande avec des four-nisseuzrs dtrangers.
-tLensemble de ces contrats a ete  financ6 sai Zc
pr6t, a 1 'exception des contrata nO 02/34/94 (ENP) et
03/37/96 (RNEDZnI).
-La sittation relative a ces contrata se prSae±
cozme suit :
* 13 contrats et 2 bons de coznmande Soldea.
* 10 contrats dont lea Euipamee2to y affErentr
ont fait I 'o.bjet d'une reception provisoire.
* 2 contrats an cours d'execution (noA finarsciew
aur le prgt).
* 10 coatrats litigieux.
-Concernant les sections deqcuipements tec&zzfea-
pEdagoglqes, 251 sections ont gte installdes et mises am
fotatjonzenent,  sur  les 264 prvues,  solt  un  tau= de
rEallwation de : 95 %.
Leo  :' lots destinEs aux inStitut  oant etd entilrewetn
livris et installes.
-tur lea 252 sect ons  fastall 5eJ et fonctifa=eZZef_.
81 d'entre *Iles, necessitent un conpUment d'Egu l.
zui sera pris en charge dans le cadre d'tune comultatoam
_at .ionalc.
-Pour lea  13  seCticom  non  encore  In&ta11&gv Zm
hltuation so prEsento commo suit:
* 1 sectIon do t8lerie - carosserie - p.frture
automobile, en cours d'lnstallation par 1 ^ANP&.
ralson de la difaillance du fourznIaeur.
*  4  sections  de  mouleux-fondeur,.. dent  Z
transfizEae au Secteur chargi de 1 k3egealleaeZt
Supgrieur, pour leaquelles lea atellers sont en coura
d 'anEnageinent.
* 8 sectlons do cogture p rt -a- pozrter JozAt
linastallatlon  eat programfo pour USte&nbre 1997,
dans 1. cadre do lexicutIon du contzat AIUFPIDZK,
non flnaIcJ   sur la pr8t.
- 03 -



bl/  ol_et aasistance technieu:
- Sur lea onze (11) missions inscrites Initialeaent.
dans  le  progranme  d'aassistance  technique,  buit  (08)
missions ont ete  rialioaeg  dont quatre  (04) ontn it
cozfUies a  des  opgrateurs  nat4ozaux  et financies en.
diraaro.
Con quatre (04) dernierea missions potent
des etudes relatives :
* 5 la  a1se en place d'un systime de  sUIVI
professionnel des dlpl8mis des CFPA. (O.bservatoize
zelatif au auiuv de 2Z'insertion) /
* au dEveloppement du systAme d0apprentissage .
* A la creation  d'un aye tAme infomatief  db-
suivi et de  contr8le des  couts de la  fatotI=
professionnelle;
* au de-veloppement des activites de productI=
int6grees A la formation, dana lea CYPA.
-7-ro.i (03) missions  nt ets  annulea. n I  stagfr dew
Etucges ortant guux 
* lAamnlforation do la capaclbe de X'IWN1OP
(ox. rNDBFJ), A apporter son soutien aux ontreprIse;
* 1 'laboration de programmes pour lex aours Po=
corresponda2ce, dispemais par le CHZPD (Ec- CUP.)i
* la mise on place d'un syat&me inforgat.ia  de
gestIon du materiel, de la passation des xarchE at
de la maiztenance.
-Les guatre (04) missions rEalisEea et fcina&es Sur
Xe pXft, so ripartissent coime suit
* Conception  et  exEcution  d*un       oa
perfectionzement des foxmateurs de CPPA.
*  Miss  en  jplac.  do  nouveaux    g _
ainAlioration dos programes exutazats et du matE
p&dagoglque des CFPA.
- 04 -



* Mize en place  d'un syateme informatiaf cre
gestion   et   d'informatioz2   de   2a.  foxwatiom
professionnell e.
* Organisation  de stages de perfectonnement:
pour lea iquipes dixigeantes des CFPA.
-Par ailleurs, lors de la mission de supervisvon Jr
nods d'Octobre 1994, 12 a dtd d6oidde de renforcer le volee
assistance technique du projet, en utilisant ure partla du
montant non affect6.
A cet effet, six (06) nouvelles missions ont EtJ
Identfifies et r6alisees. Ces missions portent suz -ea
gtudes suivantesa
*   Conception   et  production   de   usapzrta
pidagogiques mult i -aedia.
* Appul organisationnel aux instituts Ratia=ff
Spicialis    de Formation Professionnelie (I?JSFP)-
*    aDiveloppement   et   exp6rimentation   d'une
adthodologle d'introduction de nouvelles fl1.Ures de
foxnation professsionmele.
* Assistance au diagnostic et a 7 evaluatfo cre
actlvitEs de formation.
*  Assistance   aux  Inatituta  do  7olzateX
Professionnelle (ZIP) pour I& dEveloppeme2t et I&
nla.sen place d'outils pEdagogique  eot d'aldea anda-
visuelles .
* Conception, elaboration et Iuplantatioz do
guides d 'apprentIssage.
QBS: A signaler que la mission an  2, qtUf a
coZZu an dEbut d'executiona, dans le cadre du contrat
IWMI/CIDE (CAADA), n'a pans Ste =ene A Pon tezum, en
rasonJ des contraintes 1Ides  A la date de clfture d=
projet.
-11 y a lieu do signaler Egaleat:t le rfa2Isat9ow
d'un programme d'acquisition. d'ouvrage.  t:cholgu-a ot de
matAriel de reprographie, d'Edition et do txafsp@tt,  a
appul aux alsslons daasisxtance technque.
- 05 -



rn revanlche, le materiel lnformatique,- USI t Zt
mise en ceuvre de la mission portant sur  Le  sywstime
infoxnatie5  de  gestion  et d'infornation,  sera  acquis
localement, en Xraison de 1Iabsence de la mon-objectio, de
la BIRD.
3.2/ ST&roE FZNANCICER  :
-Sur les S4 Millions de dollars, objet dtz prift, 1¢
Seceur a retrocded 8,8 Millions de dollars, corre.pondant
solt atcux  archEs dont la non-objection zzla pas 6tE obteaue
des services de la BIRD, soit B des prestatiozs a2nnueS
pour defaillance des fournisseurs.
-L'enseAble des prestations et des engagezments XfL   t
I 'execuution du projet, a ete effectue  ava.nt le 30 J7LLn
1997, date de clBture du prit.
-Le niontant des engagements cuzzuls eatx de : 11.4
Millilons de dollars, soit : 82,2 % du montant du pret_
-Le montant des paiements cumules, £ntroduitw auprwls
de la B.A.D, est: de : 43,7 Millions de dollars. sait :
98,4 % du mozeant des engagements.
-XI y a lieu de signa2er qu'uw  montant de   0,14.
Millions de dollars, correspondant aux palaments ze1atifr
aUX denzv4res prestations, realisfee  avant, le 30 JUAI
1997, devra Otre effectued, au plus tard, le 31 Ocatobro
1997. (cf. accord BIRDJ).
3/ Vaolet: iaUi,emen C  t:echnco-v5dagaooiuea:
-Le  montart  affectd   A  cotee  rubrique,  aeprI
reswtructuration financlire, eat de : 45,4 MI-2118 do
dollars.
-Le montant des engagements at des paiementa culfa&,
au 30 JJuin 1997, est de : 38,1 Millions de dollars, Boit a
94,1 4 du montant affecte i 1 rubrique.
.b  Va_let assistance techniiue :
-Le  nontant  affecte  a  la  rublrique  a.srS#tanwe
techni quo, apris restructuration ginanclire, est d a 8.7
Xi llons do dollars.
-ZIe  ontant des engage-ents cwuulEs, au 30 JUfin 197,.
est de : 6,3 Millions de dollars, soit : 72,4 1 du smUmtz
affectE A la rubrique.
- 06 -



-Le  zontant des paiements  cumul5s est de  : 5,6
Millions  de  dol2ars,  solt      88,9  %  du  zotant   clan
ezgagemezts.
4- COMTRUANTbS zIERS A L' ExECrfrO0 DV ROE:
ZL5 valuat.ion de 1'etat d'executiozz dz pPrOj'&
faf:t apparaltre quo celui-ci a co=u un a.rtazLn
raleatissement durant lea annees 1993 et 1994, dent lea
ralsons essentielles sont  umdzem c-aptas:
-Ze mod. d'aacqusition des quIzpwentsrao2, Ipr XObs.
decidE A IZ'orlgine, pour realIser des EcozoIdes ddichelloe
en taitanat direotenent avec lea fabricants, maIa quL
a'est avSri par  la suite  contraig=nt,  ex  ralson. des
difficultes d 'oxganlsation de 1 'ANJP.
-Za lZteutr des proc6durea bancaLzea, &agectx=C dew
retards  importants  dans  1 exEcution  des  opirationS
fiazzsciiazes.
-Les lZtfges teclwlques et financalra entze .Z '517
et certaIns fournlsseurs Strangers, apparus & pati= ds
i'anzrie 1992.
-La  r6ticence  des  fourzlsseerea  ittangeo=  IT  W
diplacer e*a Algerle, pour procider au aontage se iK
."fnstallat eon  dex  Equipements,  confo*zzEaeaC  a  le.w
engagements centractuels, co gui a .luluE nigaCiveu.t aut
le rythzn d'exicution du projet.
5-  STflC2 A COmATS LX_GU2 Zrf A L 'acAQ2ZIm
Lea situatlons litigi.uses, portet aur dix (20}
contrats, llant I'ANSFP a six (06) fouLsaseuza trazg*rS
exclusivenert italiens, S2 prisentent cqm=*e au't a
- CONZ    EUX AN?P/AI. R W     :
*   archE   n r    03/03/BX/109j0,  03(04/BK/O  O&
03/105/B190,   sgndes  le  :  29/12f199Q,...pOu    dew9
coz2tants   repecta£s   do   : e.356.539*. 000       .
2.583.336.150 LXT. et 346.577.000 w ..
* Invapacat  du  fourniaxq . Ai z              s
exgaemeVntS  cantrsatuels, en rz4s@   de dtfflaultSa
- 07 -



* £xpvd1teons des quipemeents inconpZteff at,
i texnompues,  de   nani&re   unilatgrale,  par  1.
fournisseur.
* Montage, Installation et mise en service Ter
equipements non effectuEa par le  fouxniseurA %mL
:eclame le palement anticipd des livraisons.
* NiKses aen dmeure adresaees au fournI;ssu=, gpo
1IANZFP, demeurees sans suite.
* Versement du dossier au  contentieux, aprz
ipuiaement des voles de reglement & 1'amiable.
- Content.eux ANEFPIVANUCCC
Marchi n°: 03/13JBM/90
* iMarchi signi le : 21/112/1991, pour un wn=an1
de : 2.891.033.280 LI?.
* Installations Incomplites.
* )fises en demeure adresse-s au fou1iaseur, Pa
1 'ANEPFP, demeurzes sans reponse.
* Dossier versd au contentieux.
Mfarchf Uo : 03Z141B3190
* Marcho  signE : le 21/11/1991, pour u  =otme
de : 2.852.176.09C LIT.
* R$serves techniques non levies.
* Zdvzalsoas inconplites.
* Jises en damcure infructeuses.
* Dossier vers6 au contentleux.
&archf n  - : 03/38K/SB90 :
* Marchd xIgnz  : le 03/02/1996, pour    xc mauft
de 4.058.984.000 ZIT.
_ 08 -



* Marche non =r.i en oeuvre, pour dSfauet de afa.
en place, par le  fournisseur,  de  la  cautdon  de
xestatutIon d'avance et en raison de son exigece de
Dodificat.ion  des  tez=es de  la  lettre  de  crfdit
ouverte par 1 'AIJFP, contrairement auc dIspc&ItI=x
contractuelles.
* Rsiliatlon du contrat constat6ee par I'ANMI7,
en date du 04/211/996, apras  Opulsenext des vO±A 4f
x8glemeent a 1 amdable.
* Dossler versE au contentieux.
C9onteen tieM ARP&aADCO:
*  Marche  nl  :  03/17/BM/90,  x.Cgn4 .e  z
2O/O5/199Z, p01W un montant de: 2.441.446.00=
* *eaezves non levees pour lJvxaisoa de matf=Mr
reimord.
*   IXnstallation   et  aise   en   Sem,ce  is
iquipements non effectuzes.
* Kases en deneuxe Infructueuase.
* Dossoer vreve' au eontentieux.
Qja   : Lo fxzme M*DCO a Et  d4cXarBe e  falX.ZItmv ga.
la frTbunal de Florence (ITALJI), ez Ka-t 199g.
CO ten tL eux Z(P/MWAR:
*  Xaxch   n    :  03/6/B/SJO,  sd_mf  Xe  a
22/0511991, pour uz montant de :. 72Z.ii-.7020. LIT.
* ExpUI tIozs Imconp1 tes.
* Fserves techniques non l-reD
M ls.s en deineuro Lnfructueusm.S
* 1Douu.r versE au acont"t-lux.
- 09 -



Con tei2t.i eux AK.FP/TAB0RCR :
*  Marche  n °  :  03/f/P/SO.  slgne  Ie   :
22/02/1931, pouur un montant de: 1.944.672.450 LIZT
* Reserves tecbnlques non levees.
*  Installat4ons  et  mzises  en  service  no=
achevees.
* Mises en deneure infructueuses.
* Dossier verse au contentieux.
Contentieux SANZP/CORDE:
* Marhe a' : 03/21/B/90, sign' Ie: 28/03/1SS1,
pour un montant de : 3.615.582.289 LIT.
* Riserves techniques non levees.
*   ns tallat4ons  et  mises  en  service  aa
achev6es.
- Mises en demeure infructueuse.
* Dossier verse au coneentieux.
OBS,  :  Z Insezmble   des   dosslera   ZelR.PW aaB,
contentieux ci-dessus, a  tE transnias pour tralteUUta L
'avocat-consell de 1I'AjNFE.
- 10 _



6- CrONCLsUSION :
En depit des contraintes objectives EnEfrJer
cI-dessuw, il y a 1leu de soullgner que lea  =esure&
op&rationnelles prises, dans le cadre du sUivi permaent.
de I'etat d'ex;cutiosn du projet, ont penuis d'atte±ndre
globalement lea principaux objectafs vimes.
S'il  eat difficile d'Evaluer, dZea I px zwne -~
1 'Impact du projet our le diveloppement du Secteur,. iL
faudra  relever  que  le  programme  d'acquisition  dea
equIpements technico-pedagogiguea, rials6 au prZoft de MY
CFPA  et de  1I Inatituta, a pexmia, sans mul doute,.
d'amellorer,  de  manire  ind6niable  la  qualiti  der
prestatlona de ce Jtablissamentste  tout en augmentan  lor
Capaciti d'accueil annuelle, do pr8s de 7.000 to&es
pEdagogiques.
Par ailleure, 1'exasemble des corps rZaetifr aw
personnels  de  gestion  et  d'encadremenzt  technzquqt et
pedagogique, a etE touche par le programme de formatetat e
de perfectlonement znla en oeuvre, dans le cadre  .u=
diepoaitlf de dEmnltip.lIcatlon dee actions r6aL.aEe,8b
De   emeS,   plusleurs   Etudes    Vaie         w
dJveloppeiwa"t do  I organisation  et do  In  g.at@w  dt
-yetime, oat Eti  rfalisies  at neo nqueront pa,, A
I 'arvomi,  d'avolr  deo  zep.rcuuuions  favorabZes
l 'A.ulioration c:     1 'apparell de fornation  rofeBsannlZs..
- ii -



7- A INNEXES
22 -



7-1 i ANNEXE NO 01
S CONSISTANCE DU PROGRME D'ACOUISMON
>.DIES-5OUIEM5N¶ T~EHNIcOPEDAGGIOUBES
031031M    ITAIWORK  _    souls   _         2          2 T   3 !14 j   6          - _
.2a 24-  | 2   14            =
03111/GM    TABORC la 1-23                    32  3i14  6           ....
___          I    1            =         =_ '  ___ 3:z -Z±3 14 62         -          -4   -
03/O1BM   @DR4G400S  3   1mw:           __  23      3  2      14  6
_ - 1 - 3~___                          - _      21       <       
03*3G       ANNUiCCI    _______            1   1-       2i   1  14     t   1iut              ;
_ bb9'Pa1-                       Q2  _ 237-E- 2   3  1 4 1 6   3X..=
_____ *                       _23          2 3± 2  3  14  6
9     5                              3   14-
____1 D      in6tro.    , =  '23                    4  6 ~      1I 
VANNUCC  ,4=  23i    3                       3     14 |l    
________            l4OutiUagOdOCO          23 2    1 3     3 1 14  6    L  1      T       3
1                                        14
_____           15~~~i                 23 2  3      3  14   6  -         -          
6~~iiwgij-    _ ___ _e_Q!F           23232  3  i4L
03/21/GM    LVulUr ~~~~~U~UU  23       23j 14  6              ..L..        -
r,6bd~~~~e     23 -213  2- 3 14 
w~~~ UE  N b aNIns hydrUtau|n                   14
*lIECENX2 l£bG£ d' emis                                  5      4      4-1
_____2                            -I 21    23         -     - I__
bOGEA    2 baics   * 08      -  23  2      23
accenake.~~~- 4 2 -4'I_   __
C-                                      I
.9.~~~~~t
pMPAiPA1IO MECANIOUK            MLMEMHA MLEOPI~TI
I4IAECAN)OUE AUTO               P COUTUFIE VLO4
*  5mEcOEGIN LAGE                   10-TAILLEUIi
4-MWCSYST IWETIOt               11.BAOER1
-IAEC MYT IRRIGATIN
f.MgGANIQI AqIQOI.q



(A - ,qf Sp6d8lilc qNrtbdl (8u Kdj 8ddlk-cn elle -
u~~~~~~~~L   ;N-_--                      *4  1 4  1:1 1 6   I; ;{                                            Z    l Z;X
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3IA* _ 4 1*e aw w e 101 Jf1       
_. . 24 ioUPmene                                      is  _a J 14 ts_la    a-- 1;-- 
t0.3EO2Ettt>  2t otdNol gb--i _ -_   l151  3  14  Is   5t  10  _ 0                                              H
agrt *hLOEORENt 2    2      3enaiti4_I   4                                       16                                21 ii
Q V^tN"NLWl-Z6 Ce =21                                             16    010    tt  54'
03fi41iW       VELONUC      22  _ot et                      I '5   3 J  1   16    a Io I      1               ;
..wm    EI"ETD    2          PNWI9 -k"a           J      a   3  164  16    a i 11| I j 
lt~~-    1115 t   ZSt ttSit-   -   _       ~-i_       16    GI              = ;4-                    1  -
WrtWt i         ANUC                                        is ORtXE  1t -16_  =  0-     101   a                           @
13jq           SERIND       7    amd011  tS*tw         = 1              16  a_ O|             
OW331"     SWFEI EC   -  C m  tntECl          N     K     =    t     I    GElo   te
SER011ilOOt                               2> 4 EA  l    3l
|*ffiECTEICIT   ND S0.fE
ELECTINM                                  EAIUCIEL



_______-__._____=__DIVEP6S                 ELECT TNPQUE    |    CONSTRUCTIN METALLIQUE -OTAL,
Code Mach    arIu     mn NN'   Nab.u  r      * 24 26 27 2 29  30 3              t ; 33134135 33  369 4014142 143 144145
03/04J01J  Ib       _        ~         - 7    1        I  IJ 1  1  1f  12  4  10  10  2   7  1  1 1 2  8 | 14  1
'52o             _ _                               I 0  - 1    _ 4 =
,wj    el                       I                                 -   - _ _  _  _  _
a;$15MM    DWAGADO  '44 *m s                 - _     -                  t =  -i          I
_______         i53 mac*s eo accessoies  -     - =           =__! -                                            r
04iolBMA   IULIM   So cc2Mur. duie          -.                        | -  -                      . -  -|A          _i
40 mact*mS
41 cAiJag$                                                                        A-   -
0314616-A  MACAR -- -                        4a4es  -       - _1                               --
(3W30/BM   GEMCO   1--37 Iatls               4 4                                                                                -
0312316M    DUPUIS    54 oui-aget                           1-0  io                                          I
03/06/B3M   LT.T     40 appaellages dmesuro  =      -               .
OWJ31s11M   BOOGEA   50 acCosolis leclcs                                   121              1 4- -I             i - 4  -
0I-24/BM     V       42                -      - o-1-                  I          I1
43 oLaUago.n                                                        
03/2/M   CO-R          ecpdIecr-pouIf                                                          2   7Sj,1 | t R21 o  1  21 i a
03BM    DELORENZO -  e ip de soud=e          -,                                                2 _        .114 1|
W/01311M    VMA0UCO  I 5U Ica                                                                  2   7I  1       2  8  14   1
03133/EMg   SOG      T? acceseo    bes       _ -            -   -       i   1  12 14 1 
03-3N .M  DaORELNZO 4 |b                     I-           -       - -    tt1   .
3/aU                 TOwO  0 aaC Gu de vuodage          =1 12                         )        2   7 t4
tot SAC&                                    I I 12o 2 TF(a 2a-2            1-iF2O120   i12  42'6              4    6443
'- '  Enwu.040                                W:.  ,         .                                                     -    ,.   -.
LEGGIOE SPECUUTES
*'w ELV.-ThOY83C    %      r P                    CONSTc UCTiON 1ETAwOUe
24.MOULEtR FONMDIA          31-INtMENTATON         35 PLOMBERIE               38-TOLEIUE CHAUDRONNERIE
WCOUFUAOAMlS               32.1 TV                 311 CHATFFAGE CEHTIrALE    59-TCPA
26 ESJNElIQOE               33.AITOMANISME                                    40.TUYAUTERIECHALUORONNERIIg
37. SECFETARIAT BUIEUIOU   14- ELCTRONKYJE                                    41.TOLERIE CHAUDRONNERIE G T
ga. PHOGRAV OURFGET                                                           42CHARPEtNTE METALUQUg
9IMPAESSIONOFPSET                                                             4SOUDAOE MOCJI
PA-WUISKFUU MAJUIJI                                                        448 S
454MSMENL1UEMM11JOU



7-2 /ANNEXE N° 02
REPARTITION PAR FOURNISSEURS DES LOTS
RELATIIFS AU PROGRAMME D'ACOUISITION
DES EQUIPEM ENTS TECIINICO-PEDAGOOGIUES
01   Mnesou ls                            'IrTALWORK
02A   Anc d'eSas                           SOGEA
028   Dam d'e e                            MADCO
03A  Idgin                                 DR¢ADOS
033   Mourw                               IEn cou
04  lMuntdIon it 9 oves                   JVANNUCCI
05   Ou°' Es pop                          ICOPADE
0O   Equfp.m. 61.tropots                    ANNU
CT  Epwo Ioa;                               MAN
0a    PaPI  amid.;                        IfALWORK
09A   Pomp.. hydradque.                    |PNH
Oft   Pomp.s hdraulqv.t                   'YULACIH
10   Acc..ou.lr.                           DAGADOS
11   Engnes tounft                         Annug
12    Aide# p4dgog)quos                   ;DELORENZO
13   Alequ.ft.t                           IYULCAIN
14  'OUvIll de ctim                        YAMNUCCI
s15   Ruaw  nt.onIme maIar.                YAMNCCI
15   oueiu.o a,..s of e.rr.                VANNUCC
17   NlSologI                              OUPUlS
I~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~                   TM ORe s 
11AIal,N*w i cudr                          ENEDDE
!  20    OP                               JTAORCW
IIA  IIV.hfqwm                             SuAC
fie Iowl" et amubn                          MADOS
2t  'Ab., obn                             IORENZO
2J   EqponorF de soucg                     YSANNUCC1
24   Euilpgs        c .                    TABORCHI
25   EqApevnr* 41w*. prh                   DUPUIS
2    App.r.lh de nwew ,.
27   0utol~ I"l                           JORADE
U    Asoe..                                VAYNUCCI
VA Al  "m                                   ENATB
298   Apnc.m.nt              EWArB
218  t Agneement                            tlSAN
30A  NAoc,mi d c"ogsolr.s                   PNO
303   1A.M.. d                              Enndr.  c7omC
i   RIM    G                               OUDIPS
3,   OuEhgg"n,                             1DUPtII
*5   Ouaga,wdh,.                           SOVEMA
31   Apwm                                  AVIS
3   uESNtst dfdcfpi                     En court
*7  ImacMu,.                              G4EMCO
38   leazi.                                  AIADAR



_ tlol  |        ~D*jtnaon      ~         |~ ~FournIas.er_|
3i|Coffur e-              ~       ~      .  @Ci
40  jMua  ns                                     YVULCAIN
41   1 OuffIilge                               YULCAlN
42   JMa@h                                    'OUETTI
4'   j°ullo                                    OLNETTI
44  ll#chinNn                                 !DRAGADOS
45  jOta*bge                                  IDAGADOS
48    Mant1 IMADCO
47   1OuWIg.e                                jYULCAIN
4e   eftw imuulat.w                            DELORENO
a6    App.r.lMag do niwur*                    IlTT
80    Aessior.s eIofqu.                       iSOG
51    Ahnen.                                  ffALWORK
S2    OutlDiig.                               I TALWOR
83   1. hlwote dce.a,1,                       DRADOS
54    O LEe                                    DUPUIS
a5   Jc                                       I     E cires  kLWo
5E   1fqdp.mn.do esudog.Nz
57    Eqaap.mnt 6.r..oim                       CORAE
59   ;0cll' L                                  DRAGADOS
so     6cmliqu.                                MADCO
of   AIuchln.o elt aPMO
82  'Rprogrphi                                  DRWADOS
U4    A    budi Ru                             DRAG"$O
WA   N.n*uc6onm&Wkmq. 
o     IjCembh dbw   .ADCO
IAk ;           rob                        ISERMtD
"  Abehhi o toeftl*                        ISMEA
70    FAc _ss    dq o.p                      SERMND
71    Aeew**n 6_b* "
-17- - .



7-3 / ANNEXE N` 03
REEARTfl ION DE   -OS-PELATIFS AU PROGRAMMIE
D'ACOUISlTION DES EOUIPEMENTS TECHNICO-PEDAGOGIOUES
DESTINES AUX INSTITUTS
1    Code l   J._ _ _ ___         ._I_.
R   March6Fourninwiu LoID.  aio               nttt
01103/11/3M MRA AWS    5 Eddclt I            nets  eewUIlu
02 03t117/3  MAVCo    So Mqcanl._ 
03 03117/1M  AVCO    j6 Mch.eolres IFPcl   Anaa 1 hem  seul wl
021291IM P.M.0
04 tWIOM  DEORENZO 66 EheL .L          .F Mnes
OS 03117/3  DM0       66Ca   M66l 
0212901W1 P.M.0                      __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
06!03/191OM ORAQADOS  62 .9prqa pie l. I      INFP E siar
07 1/0323t1MO IUPUIS  63 lepwrophie it. J     11 hJltu et
081031191DM I DRAQADOS 64AOudio visuel   i    O - hkUtuJ (2)
09 01022N SDBAC      I 2 JIntomiaIque        oigul_em. (3
091031021DM                                 %J7InatItis -13)
(1) PDE?P iADN - INFP ELaDIAR- CNEPD - INDEFOCP  OUISA IUM  AULEV
TPB KOURA A IFP MEDE . IFP SIDIDEL AFBES -ItP SETIF -IFPANNAIA .ANEFP
(2) IWFP ELBAR - ITEEM BEAUUEU - INODEFOC ROUIBA - IfP ANNABA
(3) AIFP EL DIAR - IFP BIRXHAIDEM -IFP MEDEA- IFP ANNADA
IFP STIF- CNEPD - ANEFP
- 18 -



7-4 / ANNEXE N 04
NLANNING DE REALISATION DES SECTIONS
IW'OQUIPEMENT TEGCHNMCO-PlDAGOGIOUE



3sti'  o        n tILSntua u Jiuiis it
~Ut1SUU   NI~ 111  Ia              lTIIlvsmt RfIIOhattt K                                    3W1VI It                                     juxlt@( II
|_ | I  U 'ho £ IW . *  Ia         2 |I t3 t5Is  U  )S  Lu4U W  ft                           ) U  U   IA                                      li Vi   r
Jaa                               3:hI03     tIaVtWRIT4~1I                3~tIa   2IV    tIUi                                          WIJ~Ia 
ii Isalttl,# I.t                    IiiaInrnmhzaIstM103 &
_          o~ ~~~~~asam  utuua Uln mo ms                             IJVU£ NA S3s3)0 U     WU 1K     SI                       31)1S  31 2  £
| | l  11 111311E:n3*1                    SllmlZlWllMtlS^t                                 linil.lisz3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1111,114,1 uily
iUia uhtIam  Al a3I I)IUI 11                                        1ouWIUI 3W=  of           mtAM     s
-' 9t 1i'U4t11K1  i        t2ttUmuI)nI UXM U .11543111               i*IUtU   lAsW SAiWEU lAhU31 I
t L i   £1161 531 S                           (  311 r  G a f 1 51|3 l 4 1 1   411  51* 5*1 106 )3  3AW 1S 1 5 3 2   Y q 3
u~~~w a m   -            uuu&u %                           130~~~~~~~VV415   oam  it  tluvw*aaaw  itum  ia m~ I
aiuU    ilArdi. U     WNiS Sm  K                               3863353~~~Imil   Uatj)n ft                    tAM    mam £wa
an  uu           a -341* 33g1£                             IV    1 112  e1131m                 l         Si.m   umarla
no    Allt 3 51'               lr lVA                                 UNa  Z9                                                1 Ud
I SI   ~a£atLSNLauI,n Iat ZaIatthIIIttIOLtMI3httIMt4              II<aMSI)Nl   1ta h311 4 13t11itui 11 t3aIal
as savild~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tA Nti £
to            II I'S is  I toloiltillatit "in to[minist also ti[ts 91 14 Hile is so "litIc     t o  II               S   Iir  Ia *W
ag 3t|sd        *l    slI 59                                        3i   1It4    I
a  a              I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fx 
*    I|81|i1
*  _   I I                                  a    a  ii   . _I   i,.g           a    it
*   ~~~~~~~~~~~~1I    V,4 I,
a                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~it I   I   lji oaIi't    nig,4   61
I  £                           f~~~ ~~~~~~~~~t   I  iuS.u  t111.a it
___       £ I I                                £  is   I    tafli ft1 t   1 1I
£                    I                                                a    i    a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Is   I I6dtt d3 351&av£saU  It
I                          I                       U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I      III v5yu5a
S                   I                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~If ft s flls"j~
U  I                                           III~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  0,0%ll. ('fit  DItm
to     III41 quiJan
a                    a                               £8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  lit u*t)l411
a                                                               'u.s.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a #1,1PA4.,
AsI       11rt.t ulbMa  011  9
5  I  I I S a    I                             a~ ~ ~~~~~~~~          ~~~~to  II 'iv-it    a14it it
I         I                    LI~~~~~~~~~~t  PIP'S1 tiii
£       I    I ~~~~~~~~tI                       sIt       At"I 44.s
3 1                   a                  f~    ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~to  VAIvtiQi
a    I              ~~~~~~~~~sa  saD" *""9    r4 w4
a  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~     ~        I    I                 I            (  5£~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t    I    tI lOwliq  Mvi. iua is
It                     I       61                6                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ist    I    us3 1t'JII  IVIs
It              I_ft                                               ID-   I  Si   I        Is
it a                               %I~~~~~~~~           a               It S1131 lot         3hsi  Je:ul
a   I                                 I                     Is INI



7-5/ ANNEXE NO 05
REPARTMrON ACT*UELLE PAR CF.P..A.
DES SECTIONS Dl:EOUIPEM-ENT TACHNJCO-PEDAG09G0OUE
1 ~~~~. .1.3.14;;..4rW  1 I      _  O1E _: SIC   r, I   Fis_ JATI _0  iis. 1i.1.   1,19126121   as. Jmy;, __.
V>0UES I I I II                  I           I  1:                  ir         
lI  lyni-it-ttll. g                            W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
tL                            _   3       >                               >.1. _1.I1 | |I   
.t lT;lr _r  ; ri i i L l 1,1    , I , } s  1-,8 E j t 4_,i i  * | I . t ; L. I I   i IIIaIt
2                    t  | ffi | { lilsl { 1sl 1 1 1 § | | | s * ++1  TFr:+rz~~~~~~1'4L 
{ 1  - 8:1  r r  ~~~~~ . 1 1 s I I I I I I 1§' 11 ' I I I I I l - =L~~~~~LI I  -
I~~~~~~~~~~~~M Ib± to lI. !1 3                            1111 711AM161
Ll  _m                 _  | | & | | § ~~~~~~~~~~~~Lrn:_i J-      rHj.|*   
Youl~ ~ ~ des L*009 Is  Al  I I                        IIIII4  kII,III     
' I  Il ti Tl  I I IL Lli  _2_ 



7-61.. ANEXE No 06
SITUATION n CONTRATSA=                       O N
DAC~~~~~~~TU
. . .~~~~~~~~~~~~.  P0    . .TA   ___.____
6R086ET15       eWWO    IWUSSN    lZI2LAst      61045         1 48505965   FRF           453156 61   100%    10016    100%  -Sold@
DU~~~~ICY             WM1 211t    A  s      01032         1 6Ub,00    FPS              403#l2l00   100X    100%            -Sold;
LT       C      us0       1110 2412 BAlL_w                      30 Jl 051;00 aSW         11 sm 1s 12  *o 100%    1001    100%   -Gc1d4
ffALW.K         00C19    2wa3l2 41606                           72O2 346 ,00    LIRE      207 413      100%    100%       1    -SoldS
S.OOU1          02391   24V*W   3AAt            64G 351ah1                  $Us         io04 8tW6Z     * 100%    IO0%    100%   *8o1di
OELO DEN019t  31 I61M  7S01Aat                    1031          257 511t,9o  LURE        092304,00   100%    W00%    100t    -SoIdi
L T.TYMEM .uCO            1 1?L_¶ 1IUA.Ag        61n7         3 685  80 ,00   FAF        70618.400   100       1 lam0    100%   -"Sdd
MLJY *um        OWjO   1t1W1  17A.J3tLat         61043      8 0173,2o00  FPF             79400         100%    100%    100%   -Sotdi
EAEAT           021    M2OM   ftmlt              61006          722 0oo,    fRF           2 2s641,00   107 W   100% ao%   * Sold;
8O0E4           G0139I  Wo wi          _s ssmo                3    t23st,6    FWe       t 0044 367r  100%    10W%       100%   -1 pdi
OM  ELONZD       wi 10  11NO." t       LAst     HOI3         472636o,oo   LIRE           646694,00   100%    100%    100%   -0 Sod
CELSREOQSN    011 10 a  Oqe  171     1?  1      6           10 4625600   LTS             1     60t00  100%    1 t%    10096  -Soldn
OLAGDM          ova101 19 17IWWU  01 Mat u10w1 52565  24,o0  PlS                         7 904 015 00   100%    1W.% 100%   -Soldn
SOA             0WO11    1Y1011  7Ult           61o0         11 130a96 ,23   FPF        34006440,00   1009    100%    100%   -5 old
ORAiDUUS        Owl 8Yt0   t/S   0271UJm OW o   6t f  lt1  4g1Jw48a 00 tp78          t      4     ooa; 1w%    lam       100% nR onprononci
M5IADO          M OWM    M10M32  :t 2607013                  6306,00oo   PtS             264 1960  1003 1       oo.     100%    -FD non prnone,
O    MVIENZO    fJW90  11710616I Ataat I        65001D3 701   561.00   PTS            212718.9    100%   .. 1001    1009%  FRD non pronono.
D#VWDOS atot Ito  1 71mm  QIn  t 04tm                   259GU     00   PTS          2S 0Z0   1   !g3,0I t < 100% tR009 rt ona P prononcA
WWn    17/1MH t7       t       Jl0Ot2      330 O60 47,00   PTO         340032,E00   100%    10 06    100%   -FLD non prononci
1 tXlOIMOO  t    130194   1         6SRAt       3IAO64          42 8400     PTO            1570,sS   100%  PJ  100% t%   oSDnon pronone
MADOG           WI"    "mu0W1 P    OJl.t        611QO        7501 ooe00,00   FllF        221S43106   1 OD%    I %         I    .ROnon prenonc;
OELO            0112161  1210231   1 ILSuI       61044      72 m57 00o   URE            Z10S7618.92   10074%    IWa    100%   -C. non pronor
I / 171   00I4                         072 OaM 7 0000    LIRE      93027,00               100 14 o3%  10%   - fi-D non pmn6 nonc
ITAL3AJCOC      0104160  17~61  OiuLmt          61604ow       * #43"6,00    $us           07" 4700J   100%    *o        ooA%   . -Mo   At.Ar
IMAO            MIMt0t  1701    14t2L            61005     2304 106 ,0LO    LIRE       384919,a0    1 0Y    10%         99%   -Contaie
H               tthAt   12JoVo 1mw  ta A         N"0"       m=70200o  t^RE   *          1014748,72   74S6    46B        009%   *Coenseu
FALOCe          t1j61   17/I01 1U,ILA           man         33107  055628,00   URE      8S 6177,00   440%       3%      100%   -ConlonUptut
ITAWWIV"        01111W90  17t06  867A           611 5" 0    34 4672480100   URE         22600474.00   100%    8416       9310%   .Cordadum
l~~~~~W               T)W     oWNLad        s 7low e   34_t577000o00   liFE          203 ot   3 s2a 0*      1 9L    009; . Comodw
TABOO"          WnJo   t 7tM        _ W. d      WM ot s      44 OM2 460    IR"E         t 1400779.00   100 aos   4s     1oo%   - Cont4d
VaswCOt         011 WO     T I7M0   lt619&1 t     DW       66 103326o0,00,    LFE      345      ,o247.00   100%    100%    100%   -Conlnileug
WMJCtl           W41190   17a  *IALmt            61 011    *26176066o U.0    LR            12292a06   1003    100%    100%   *Comeg
=   ~~   ~~h'4,    ~~       4in,,,u,  "4~~~~    4056 964900.00   O0%          00%    -on !.;d.zI
VOOt __ __ _- ;  t           a_                                                                                                        rO /_  ns.aa    
1 1 1 I __1-  _                                           I w I_00% aw-  lW _                                         prW-
l7P9    !        _       .      -       I--                           1 wt . . # s ! 4 i SL
MMEAM   A WWI"                        OA             * 4                              I w



7-7/ ANNEXL N° 01
AU 30.061= . -R  PR   AMME D'ACOUSTO-N
DES LO   EET  KJNC-PED O IOES
^x_- MLICOPAQ
NO.I Ni NJ1 5.6-31.265.343041
%--jWAW-- -  -     :tl A ; .LYuPd* tP=.J  I *.I  *  lM               .t    *
RUBRIOUE             DINARS   Dont .evses    DINARS _   DontDS DINARS                 ront SUS
1 - Machine et OquiPments    964 206     805 891      776 003        41 371     821 598        38055
2 - Eludes et ongennoeng    138 341                   138 341                   108 057
3 - AJues                   385 882       16650       226345        *           207 572        *
TOTAUJX            1478 429      9O2541      114:289         41371j  1137226,          _855
L. LI                                          .-
*Rubuique 3 Incluse dar nubnjqu I on DollIw ArPPIOXIMATIFS.
1i



7-8 / ANNEXE N° 08
ETAT DES CAUTMONS RAPATRtEES
RELATIVES AUX CONTlTS LMGIEUX
D'ACQUISITION DES EMAPEMENTS
TECHN ICO-PEDAGOGIOUES
OURNIStU  CONTPT  CAUTION  MONTANT DOISE    COUR  MONTANTDINAmS
MADCO        017jSM     0987&0        120220 Ut  3.46           45938S93
MADCO        D3170M     10420.5      2441448 0  Lt  35.48      a mi
VANNUCCI    014)BM      10447.4      1000000 Ut  33.81         3 38060CO
ITALWORK     01305siM   0935.3        34857700 Ut   3.38       1 173 SX2
ITALWCAK     03039M     o34.2        213103 392 Ut  3180       7 2031 a0
T O r A L                                  21 12027310
ETA? DES CAUTIONS MISES EN JEU
|oURISMUR -C_                 _--   CAUTION               MONTANT DVISE
~-    - ----- - --
MADOO        03/17)M                 0878.0                     12 SW    Cit
MADCO        03,1 7,M                1625                       214 44m  Lt
VANNCCI    03114iSM                  10447.4                    1000=  Ut
ITALWORK     03/06/M                     3                      34857 700 Lit
CORADE       W1iM                    0987.8                      6235 672 Ut
ftALWOPK     03103M                  0994.2                    el3103 S2 Ut
M4ADAJ:      03/16M                  10107.0                     2MM  L
MADAR:,      03MO/BM                 10406.5                    137 s ?t Ut
I                                                  -~~~~~~~~~~2  
... . _* TCT A L   _    .       __..      ...........0  Ut
- 24.



INTf rA_.
st  .  MTIUu   ' Pt_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mma                                      To-=e|rstin  dn n   a  PAonant n TRU  I
I~~~~                                    ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ title .i 
2      .            l~~~~~~.466t.760 FF I   100     2123.5200100 IS 1US --5FF ;212.352.00  100   i
03d92    Ddddaaaodwimetis mI-Ir   
.  c _ S~ak=d             ,CEGEP    i                SS4.800 &USt   100   ,   54.800,00 i 00             .466.417,75,    84,07 
1O1Q9               at ph Y "n     d'n
spRi o       n dcgtio   UAFA                      I    W. J0.DA.   100        12S.944,S  IW  ISUS         j 125.944,58   10
. ! t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~23,82 DA                                                        |0
L    I      O  M;ira=                                        ICD L9-     _1.3DUSi   100          I I.1      3S10 -   L.. 1368.490  8 1.29 
_  '  Mlll~~~~~~~~~~~~~)SH1 _   1.7.76' FF, '* 1G                           343.059.) *' IOG IS *-:.20 FF     :          Q 6023g
|04196    A    d e d c              :          .                          ,         ,                 .d,
s B B 100 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oowF, io1620.1  O
|' iw ii ' ; j; I, ej ! , C X 6SUV=>                                                         S  US ;5,20FFs" 1" 1690.S31.    ioo
;   *:;   I &  i- : i '1          ,-1  JOUC           S06.VALUC  ' D                           1Cs         j316.2003       81655
,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11.0_r I- _0 -  2
OBSE3rblol; 1 nonnt a, US  l zrA t   re,ws 'oco   6g        u 'vld  aBR
Mi s can          CAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



7-10/ ANNEXE N 10
SITUA3LO DES EN                   D EES PAIEMPNTS
~~~~~~dmt  DAet S US.
.~~~~ _____
RUBRIQUEIS           Montunt de rA.P        _ernest                                               Observation
_     ~~DL a s  i )ont Devs       Dl             u S  SIinars             $ SUS_
li:tudes         214.289.b;.,00 '225.971.000,00  1t.98S.483p5j 5.39L.679,62  13.509.082,3111 4.743.726,481
w1whilm et         47.630.000,00  45AS6.090,00  49363784,05    7S4.314,35   4.935.784,905    754.314,35
bqrnpunent                                                                  ..
Matidels de         6.738.000,00   6.580.000,00   2.06S,04I   116.290,31     2.L,00%    116.290,31
trnspots                     I1.
Autl               24.1181.000.00 1           12.730.87,73|    -        12.730.978,73
l   292.838.00.0,0,278.1lLOOO.001 33.65831     6263.284,281 31.177.910,09j 5.614331,14
00                                                                  I  X



3U     O & .1997
. . ~~~~_ ._        _ _ _  _ _ _                                              VV4I1TE: t .   1!SD
MAORITANT DES   MONTANT D13          Mongani des    MONTANT DES         SOLDE        SOLDE PEGAGE
RUDRIQUt   MONTANT  ENGAGEMENT  DESENGAGEME;NT   ENGAGEMENT    PAEIMENTS                       PAIEMENTS I   / MONTANT DE
(1)       INITIAUX            (3)           CUMULES AU    CUMULES AU   ENGAGEMENTS  LA RUBIUQVE
(2)                              30/06/97         30106197       ClMULES          (7) = (-(4)
{~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                                        5) -1X-3 (5) (5- }(5)
Equipenmak T.P    45,3         41,371           3,316             38,t)55          38,QS              -              7.245
ASSialance      5.7          61,63             _6,63                             5.014            0,649            2,437
Tot           54          47.6JJ           3,316             j4,318           13,669           0,649            9,682
OBSERVATIONS
1/-   Les mantats indiquesdans le tableau ci-dessus, son? donnies i titre indicatif, sur la base des taux de change appliques aux dates du
paicnict du3 factures acceptees par la B.A.D.
Cependmnt, if 'coulc un dt)ai important entre les dates do pairmcnt et celies des d&caissements effectifs enregistr6s par la B.I.R.D, ce qui
influe w. i& pt des monnaics utdisies par rapport au dollar U.S.
21-  Itya 1;u de rcvWr que le olde  d , d"u" montant do: 9,682 M.USM, environ, est sup&icur au mwntant de 8,8 M. UISD r6trocddh par
,to soetmosn rmiaodc.raugmwattion du montant dos d4angagements relatifs au programme d'acquisition des iquipements tecinica-
& pdd ~oguqw&qi4d; 3, 316 M. USD, alars qu'il tit ivgAue initialomn a; Z,5 M.USID.
:       4
. I
* ~    ~~~  ,_.  . 
*       4.'.  ,#I.



MINIS TERE_ DQ TAVAIL_E_LA PROTECTION SOCIALj
ET DE LA_ FORMATION PROFESSIONNELLE
SfCRETARIAT_D'ETAT A LA FORMATION PROFESSI ONNELLi
OBSERVAs TIONS_ DUQ SECTEUR RELATIVESO AU RAPPORT
D 'ACHEVEMENT DU PRO JET DE FORMATION PROFESS IONNELILE
JPRET BIRD N'_:_2977-AL).
1/- RESUME DE L'EVALUATION :
Point n' 3 :
Plusieurs actions portant sur la realisation des
objectifs de ddveloppement du Secteur, ont ete men6es.
Ces actions visant A favoriser l'investissement dans I&
ressource humaine, ont permis d'assurer, arec I'assistance
d'experts  6trangers,   IC  perfectionnement   dans   Ies
techniques   de   gestion,   de   134   responsables   de
lencadrement  administratif,   technique  et  pedagogique
(Directeurs et Chefs de Service de Wilaya, Directeurs et
Directeurs  d'Etudes   des   Instituts,   Inspecteurs   et
Directeurs de C.F.P.A).
Par   ailleurs,   les   permiares   actions   de
demultiplication organisdes, sous forme de s6minaires ou
de stages de courte dur6e et animes par les homologues
algdriens ont concernd plus de 250 cadres du Secteur.
Ces actions oat port6 notamment sur les themes suirants :
- I'Plaboration, 1'actualisation et la mise en oeuvre
de programmes de formation ;
-  le  dereloppement  et  la mise  en  oeurre  d'uno
methodologie de perfectionnement technique ot pedagogique
des  personnels  d'encadrement  des  etablissements  de
formation ;
-  la  conception  et  la  production  de  supports
pedagogiques, A l'aide de supports multi-mddias ;
- 01 -



- Le  diagnostic  et 1`6valuation  des activit6s de
formation ;
Point no 4 ;
Le retard accus6 dans la mise en oeurre du ralet
assistance technique du projet est du essentiellement au
d6sint6ressement des bureaux d'6tude etrangers A se rendre
en Alg6rie, d&s la premiere phase de mise en oeuvre du
projet,   contrairement   aux  fournisseurs  d'6quipements
technico-p6dagogiques qui disposaient, pour la plupart
d'entre eux, de repr6sentants locaux.
Pour   supplMer   a   I'assistance    technique
6trang6re,  quatre  (04)  missions  sur  les  onze  (11)
inscrites au programme initial, ont 6t6 confi6es, entre
1991 et 1994, A des bureaux d'dtude nationaux et financdes
en dinars algeriens.
iI s'agit des 6tudes relatives
- A la mise en place d'un observatoire reIatif A
l'Evaluation et au suivi de P'insertion des diplIm6s de la
formation professionnelle ;
- au d6veloppement du systeme de formation par
apprentissage ;
- d la creation d'un systeme informatise de suivi et
de contr6le des coats de formation ;
- au d6veloppement des activit6s de production
integrees A la formation, dans les C.F.P.A.
L'evaluation, A mi-parcours, lors de la mission
de supervision effectuee au siege de la BIRD, en Octobre
1994, a permis de restructurer, en relation avec les
services de la Banque, le volet assistance technique du
projet, en vue de son adaptation A 1'evolution socio-
Economique du Pays.
Point n'5 :
- Les retards enregistr6s dans le pajemeuzt des
fournisseurs     6trangers,     d'6quipements      technico-
p6dagogiques, sont dus, le plus souvent, A la lirraison
d'6quipements d6fectueux ou renovds et au refus de ces
fournisseurs  de  se  deplacer  en Algdrie,  A  partir de
l'annee   1993,   pour  procdder  A  l'installation  des
6quipeaents    livrds,      conformdment     aux    clauses
con tractuel les.
- 02 -



- Les directives de la BIRD, en matiere de passation
des marchds ont et strictement respectees, mais la mise
en oeuvre des contrats s'est heurtd aux exigences des
fournisseurs, en matiare de garanties 1iees, selon eux, a
la situation du Pays.
- II y a lieu de signaler egalement la longueur des
proc6dures relatives & l'approbation des march6s, par les
services de la BIRD. (Cas du march6 d'acquisition de
mat6riel informatique qui a fait l'objet d'une non-
objection de Is Banque, apras plusieurs mois d'attente, au
motif que l'6ch6ance de clOture du projet, ne permettait
plus sa r6alisation, dans les d6lais).
2/- EVALUATION DE L 'EXECUTION DU PROJET
Point n 3 :
Le secteur a men6 de nombreuses actions risant 4
ia realisation des objectifs d'amelioration de la quaIite
et d'adaptation aux bosoins du marche du travail.
Parmi ces actions, on peut citer notamment :
- La conception et la realisation, sur dix (10) sites
exp6rimentataux,    de    l'organisation   modulaire   des
formations, portant sur trois (03) families de metiers. La
g6ndralisation  progressive   de   cette  organisation  a
1'ensemble des families de metiers est un des objectifs
prioritaires fixes par le programme du Secteur, pour la
p6riode 1998-2000.
- L'actualisation de la nomenclature sectorielIe des
branches professionnelles et des sp6cialit6s de formation,
en rue de son adaptation aux besoins des secteurs
utilisateurs.
- La prdparation des termes de reference d'une etude
sur la carte nationale de formation professionnelle, dont
le lancement est programme pour le ler trimestre de
P'annee 1998.
- L'intdgration  d'un  module  sur  les  mdthodes  de-
recherche  active  de  l'emploi,   dans  les  cursus  de
formation.
- La mise en place d'un systeme de financement de Ia
formation  professionnelle,  favorisant  1 'utilisation  de
ressources financiares alternatives et la contribution de
l'ensemble des op6rateurs concern6s.
- 03 -



- La signature de plusieurs conrentions arec Jes
secteurs utilisateurs, en rue de prendre en charge leurs
besoins sp6cifiques. en qualifications professionnelles.
Point n- 4 :
- L'enquete sur le taux d'insertion des dipl5,as doe
la formation professionnelle, a ddbouchd sur la mise en
place,   des  1994,   d'un   observatoire  permanent  sur
l'6valuation et le suiri de l'insertion. Ce dispositif qui
est A sa quatridme ann6e d'existance, a permis de rdaliser
des enquetes annuelles concretis6es par l'Plaboration de
trois rapports d'6valuation des diplom6s, pour les ann6es
1994, 1995 et 1996.
- Les dossiers techniques relatifs aux 6tudes visant
A developper le systame de formation en entreprise, la
formation A distance ainsi que le systame de passation des
marchds et de maintenance des £quipements, ont dtE-
proposEs A l'examen des services de Ia BIRD, aux fins de
non-objection, lors de la mission de superrision de
D6cembre 1995, mais n'ont pas dte retenus, compte-tenu des
d6lais de realisation proposes.
L'6tude sur le ddveloppement du systame de
formation en entreprise, a Etd engagee, en 1997, dans le
cadre d'un autre projet d'assistance technique.
Les   r6sultats   de   1'6tude   portant   sur
'am6lioration de l'organisation et du fonctionnement de
I'ANEFP se sont traduits par 1'dlaboration d'un dossier
d'assainissement financier et la modification du statut
juridique de I'Agence qui reprendra ses activit£s, sur de
nourelles bases, A partir de Janvier 1998.
- L'etude sur le contr6le et le suiri des couts a
debouchd sur la mise en place d'un systdme informatisd de
gestion,  expEriment6  dans  plusieurs  CFPA  et  derant
permettre l'introduction de la comptabilit6 analytique
dens la gestion et le fonctionnement de l'ensemble des
Etablissements du Secteur.
La gineralisation de ce systAeme, programmEe
initialement en 1997, a dtd diffdr6e A 1998, en raison du
rejet par la BIRD, du marchd relatif A l'acquisition du
mat6riel informatique d'accompagnesent, bien que les
procEdures de passation des marchEs, en rigueur A Is
Banque, aient ete scrupuleasement respectEes.
- tJne autre 6tude portant sur la wise en place d'uzr
systAme  intdgrE  d'information,  a  dtE  r6alisde  arec
l'assistace d'un partenaire etranger et sera Egafement
mise  en  application,  en  1998,  avec  I'acquisition  du
matdriel  informatique  nEcessaire,  dans  le  cadre  du
programme d'Equipement du Secteur.



- L'dtude sur le d6reloppement des activit6s de
production dans les centres de formation a 6te r6alisie
par les moyens propres du Secteur.
Les rEsultats de cette Etude ont conclu A Ia
n6cessite d'adapter le dispositif reglementaire r6gissant
le fonctionnement des etablissements de formation, de
manidre A leur permettre de commercialiser le produit de
leurs formations et de rEaliser des prestations de
service,  dans un cadre  contractuel,  pour  contribuer A
I'allegement des charges financieres de l'Etat.
Un objectif annuel correspondant L 10 X dir
budget de fonctionnement, a 6te fixE, das 1995, aux
Etablissements de formation et les rdsultats obtenus sont
assez probants, arec cependant des variations sensibles
entre les etabIissements disposant de sections dites
lourdes et les etablissements dispensant des formations
dans   des   spdcialit6s  peu   propices   aux   activitds
productives.
D'autre part, plusieurs conventions ont signees
arec les autres secteurs en vue de d6relopper les actions
de formation-production, notamment avec le Secteur de
P'Education  Nationale,   pour   la  fabrication  et   la
r6novation des 6quipements et du mobilier scolaire.
Point n 9 :
- L'encouragement  de  la participation  du Secteur
privd & 1'effort national de formation, a et6 contretise
d6s 1991, par la promulgation d'un ddcret portant creation
des Etablissements priv6s de formation et, en 1992, d'un
d6cret relatif A I'homologation des formations dispensdes
par ces etablissements.
En l'espace de quatre (04) ans,  le nombre des
etablissements prives de formation, a ddpassd plus de 300
etablissements  et   6galera   bient6t   le  nombre   des
etablissements   publics.   Les   capacites   pedagogiques
disponibles, dans le secteur prive, sont de 16.000 places,
pour un effectif global de 12.000 stagiaires.
Cependant, les formations dans ce secteur, sont
dispens6es le plus sourent dans des spEcialitds ne
nEcessitant pas un inrestissement important en equipement
et sont concentrdes dans les niveaux 4 et 5 (Technicion et
Technicien Superieur).
- 05-



- En conclusion, il y a lieu de signaler ue Tes
principaux objectifs assigne's au projet, ont ete rsalises
et ce, en d6pit des contraintes objectives rencontrees,
dans le cadre de son ex6cution.
Z'acg.uisition    des    e'uipements    technico-
p6dagogiques, portant sur 260 sections de formation, sur
les  266  programmezes  inItialement,  tout  en  permettant
d'augmenter les capacit's d'accueil, de plus de 7.000
postes de formation, a contribue c ame'liorer, de maniere
substancielle, la qualite de la formation dispensee.
De meme, la mise en oeuvre des recommandations
des  etudes  realisees  ainsi  que  la  formation  et  le
perfectionnement du personnel d'encadrement technique et
p6dagogique, ne manqueront pas, a l'avenir, d'avoir un
impact positif sur le developpement du Secteur.
Au plan financier, pres de 85 % des 54 Millions
de Dollars alloues au projet, ont 6te' concomm6s.
Les credits non utilises correspondent soit aux
marches dont la non-objection n'a pas ete  obtenue des
services de la BIRD, soit a des prestations annulees pour
defaillance des fournisseurs d' equipements.
Ces constats n'excluent pas, bien-entendzz, une
evaluation objective des  insuffisances  constate'es dans
1'ex6cution du projet, en vue d'en tirer les enseignements
utiles, pour une eventuelle action de cooperation future.
- 06 -



TABLEAU 8 A: COUTS DU PROJET
ESTIMATION A L 'EVALUA -  ESTIMATION ACTUELLE (EN
TION (EN MILLIONS DE $  MILLIONS DE £ EU)
R U B R I Q U E      EU) (*)                     (ALEAS COMPRIS)
Cout Co I___   en]l Total    Cout    CoOt en  Total
locaux |eie  ||5lcu|deise |
I/-Volet equipements     35,0_48,35_]f 83,35J/   | 41,434j[  I
itechnico -p6dagogicrues.              t.li1
12/-Volet assistance                              I 
|technique              L       _   _    11      11     11____            1
-Euipement                        ,352,65 |0,2             07      0,9
-Assistance techni ueJ|   /    1,8        1,8    0,3     1,9  | 2,2
-Formaton en AlgEri| 11,8       /   H  11,8              | /0,1
-Formation a, IIetran- /-      0,4        0,4     /      0,4     0,4
ger                  I                                 _
-Documentation + TranJ  0,2 | 1,1         1,3    0,4     3,2     3,6
-sport    L                             0,       /
TO T A              4                 013            47, 634  i
(t) Source rapport d'evaluation du projet F.P par la Banque mondiale
le 26/05/1988.
1/ VOLET EQUIPEMENTS TECHNICO-PEDAGOGIOUES
- Autorisation de programme initiale :  250.000.000 DA (19886
- Autorisation de programme actuelle : 1.478.430.000 DA (1997)
2/ VOLET ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE
- A:P. initiale: 20.300.000 DA (1992)
- A.P. actuelle : 292.838.000 DA (1997)



- 24 -
3.02.       On   trouvera   ci-dessous   un   tableau   synoptique   des   coU
estimatifs du projet par categorie de depenses  :
Tableau 3.2 : COUTS DU PROJET PAR CATEGORIE DE DEPENSES
(Millions de o
dinars ala6riens)                du total    (Millions de dollars EUY
Monnai;                      de     des couts   Monnaie                     Z de
locale   Devises  Total   devises   de base    locale   Devises Igtl  devises _
COUTS OE
L' INVESTISSEMENT
A. RENOVATION          20.9       8.9    29.8    30             7         4.2       1.8    6.0    30
B. EQUIPEMENT
1. FOURNITURES     45.7      187.8   233.4    80           54          9.t      37.6   46.7    80
2. TRANSPORT        16.5               16.5                 4          3.3              3.3
INTERNE Er
INSTAURATION
Total EQUIPEMENT       62.1     187.8   249.9    75           58         12.4      37.6   50.0    75
1 C. HATIERE O'OEWVRE  58.1        14.5    72.5    20            17        11.6       2.9   14.5    20
0. LIVRES ET
DOCUMENTATION
7. FOURNITURES      0.6        5.3     5.9    90            1          0.1       1.1    T.Z    90
2. TRANSPORT         0.4                0.4                 0          0.1              Q.1
INTERNE ET
INSTAURATION
Total LIVRES ET         1.0       5.3      6.3    84            1         0.2       t.1    1.3    S4
DOCUMENTATION
-   E. ASSISTANCE           -         8.9      8.9   100            2         -         1.8    T.5   taC
TECHNIQUE
F. FORMATION           59.2               59.2                 14        11.8              11.8
EN ALGERIE
s. FORMATION            0.2       2.1      2.3    90            1         0.0        0.4    0.5    90
A L'ETRANGER
Total COUTS DE BASE  201.6      227.4   429.0    53           100        40.3      45.5   85.8    53
Provisions pour     20.2       22.3    42.5    53           10          4.0       4.5    8.5    53
impr6vus techniques
Provisions pour    105.2      139.6   244.5    57           57          2.9       4.1    7.0   s5
impr6vus financiers
Total COUTS DU PROJET                      715.  3   ?l.9    54  167       47.3      54.0 iO.t 



2I  i                        o°                                                                                         6e
Mediterranean                           Sea
3~*E6e                               45rAGN                        A9/N MDEFA         D                                   o,       4/A  J5? TATN   U/M 7 / h
TEMOUCHENT>>/  \  rszone 5  so M'5,4 zOUMHE                                                                                               GU
36n                     MASCARANE           5A                                3        M                                       FA
e                    a ScUc =U                                                                                                            T  (     EBESSA  m Te-.dn w&
K   TIFCEN        SIN- Mtt    5o                                                                                      BLkcr 
34   /  t1     \tS                 8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\   >_   }                                                                    34~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
NAAMA~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                 B N
MASCARA NoomoT. )                    A G H O U A T       \                                                                   o        50      100     150
M g   Et   BAYADHSt  <   \         \     SEIOuAd         t                MILES
g   I                                )                   u ~~~~~~~~ ~~           ~~Ghordoic  / OUJARGLA   \         
SAIDA- .                      J            GHARDAIA                                                   S\.
DJE. Ale hor   /  f  /        o OuocgIc                                              ALGIERS
BfCHA2   \   /    1                                        1                                      /                  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AREA OF MAP    <S
LAGHOUAT~~~~~~~~~~~~AE/lOOARAACURL
NAAMA                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Actor0 'I
AL GERIA  ALGERIE                                                                                 N NDOUF 
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT A.                                                                                               ADRAR                    iI,z1°
PROJET DE FORMATION PROFESSIONNELLE                                                                                            o                     
CVenbtre°s do TFaonrmtibon tPerofeaaFoPnAno/o et dAppronisl    *  WlayaCap/taile                                                                   AAGSf 
/nsftatuts do 'Formation PofounSssio)nnol/o               Fr     a tero .o V                                                                            °'//ayatoe?
*     Maintena3nce Training Intout/utes (ITEEMJ)       _. -    lntemsitions/l Boundaries                                             o       sooN     8  
tIns/ituts do Technotogie d'En/retien tioc/romdcsn/quo    Finrea nbrtsntrasiTonalos                KIIOMETERS  ,
$T.cPoso..o-a.ncaec.oboCcdf~~-LOo a_aocdaoaMHo.Oc-o                                                                                     0  2X00 
SEPTEMBER 1988



