Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2977 AL
(Vocational Training Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 7, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 2977 AL
 LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April 7, 1989, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the  Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of  Section 
Page  2
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
     (b)  "MEF" means the Ministry of Education and Training of the Borrower;
     (c)  "MTAS" means the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs of the Borrower;
     (d)  "CFPA" means Centre de Formation Professionelle et d'Apprentissage, a 
vocational training center under the supervisory authority of MEF, established 
pursuant to the Borrower's Decrees No. 74-112 of June 10, 1974, and No. 82-292 of 
August 21, 1982;
     (e)  "IFP" means Institut de Formation Professionnelle, an institute for training 
of CFPA instructors under the supervisory authority of MEF,  established pursuant to 
the Borrower's Decree No. 81-395 of December 26, 1981;
     (f)  "ITEEM" means Institut de Technologie d'Entretien Electromecanique, the 
maintenance training institute in Algiers for higher level industrial  maintenance 
technicians under the supervisory authority of MEF, established by the Borrower's 
Decree No. 70-138 of October 8, 1970;
     (g)  "INFP" means Institut National de la Formation Professionnelle, the national 
institute responsible for vocational training under the supervisory  authority of MEF, 
established by the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 67-54 of March 27, 1967, as amended by 
the Borrower's Decree No. 81-394 of December 26, 1981;
     (h)  "INDEFE" means Institut National de Promotion et de Developpement de la 
Formation Professionnelle en Entreprise et de l'Apprentissage, the national  institute 
for development of in-company training and apprenticeship systems under the 
supervisory authority of MTAS, established by the Borrower's Decree No. 81-393 of 
December 26, 1981;
     (i)  "CNEPC" means Centre National d'Enseignement par Correspondance, the center 
for correspondence courses under the supervisory authority of MTAS,  established by 
the Borrower's Decree No. 64-271 of September 15, 1984; and
     (j)  "ANEFP" means Agence Nationale des Equipements Techniques et Pedagogiques de 
la Formation Professionnelle, the agency under the supervisory authority of MEF 
responsible for the procurement, installation and maintenance  of vocational training 
equipment, established by the Borrower's Decree No.  86-32 of February 28, 1986.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in  various 
currencies equivalent to fifty-four million dollars ($54,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan  Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for  expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the  Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Page  3
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum  for each 
Interest Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank  shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each
               date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including
               the Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstand-
               ing borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,  
               expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably determined
               by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months 
               of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts A, B.1, 2 and 3, and C of the Project through MEF and Part B.4, 5 and 6 of 
the Project through MTAS with due diligence and   efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate educational, financial, economic and administrative practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be  financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions  of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1989, employ all 
consultants to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part C of the Project.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to ensure that the 
number of CFPA instructors receiving in-service training every year increases to reach 
one-third of all such instructors by 1992.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  not later than December 31, 1990, take all necessary steps to complete and 
furnish to the Bank for its review, the studies under Parts B.5 and C.5 of the 
Project; and
     (b)  take  into consideration the Bank's comments in implementing the 
recommendations of said studies.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting  practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project  of the departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
Page  4
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
               of this Section, including those for the Special Account for
               each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
               auditing principles consistently applied, by independent  
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
               not later than nine months after the end of each such year,
               the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
               in such detail as the Bank may have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
               records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank may
               from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
       (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with para-
              graph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
              such expenditures;
      (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received
              the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
              withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records
              (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
              documents) evidencing such expenditures;
     (iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
      (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
              annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
              and that the report of such audit contains a separate
              opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
              expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with
              the procedures and internal controls involved in their
              preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
              withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) prepare semiannual reports on the  progress 
of the Project according to a format agreed upon between the Borrower  and the Bank; 
and (b) furnish such reports to the Bank within 45 days after the end of each such 
six-month period.
ARTICLE V
Termination
     Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days  after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of Borrower in charge of Finance is designated as 
representative  of  the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere charge des Finances
          Immeuble Mauretania
          Place du Perou
          Algiers
          Democratic and Popular Republic
Page  5
            of Algeria
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               FINPLAN                       67073
               Alger
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                              64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names 
in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
                   DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
                   By /s/ Sid Ahmed Ghozali
Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Kemal Derivs
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each  Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Part A of the                       )
     Project:                            )
                                         )
     (a)  equipment            43,000,000)
                                         )
                                         )
                                         )
                                         )
                                         )
     (b)  technical             1,250,000)      100% of foreign
          books and                      )      expenditures and
          instruction                    )      100% of local
          materials                      )      expenditures (ex-
Page  6
                                         )      factory cost)
                                         )
(2)  Part B of the                       )
     Project:                            )
                                         )
     (a)  equipment             1,800,000)
     (b)  technical             1,800,000       100%
          assistance and
          training abroad
(3)  Part C of the
     Project:
     (a)  equipment                550,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost)
     (b)  technical                800,000      100%
          assistance and
          training abroad
(4)  Unallocated                 4,800,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                 54,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall  be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are:
     (a) to upgrade the network of existing vocational training institutions; (b) to 
improve the quality of vocational training programs and to enhance  their relevance to 
the Algerian labor market; and (c) to strengthen   management, cost control and 
financing in the vocational training sector.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
     Repair and improvement of workshops and provision of equipment and materials to 
about 57 CFPAs, about 4 IFPs and the ITEEM.
Part B:
1.   Design  and implementation of a program for in-service training of CFPA 
instructors.
2.   Development of new and improved curricula and instruction materials for CFPAs.
3.   Development of an employment monitoring system for CFPA graduates.
Page  7
4.   Improvement of INDEFE's capacity to assist enterprises which undertake their own 
training.
5.   Carrying out of a study on the development of the Borrower's apprenticeship 
training system. 
6.   Development of correspondence courses given by CNEPC.
Part C:
1.   Development of a computerized management information system for procurement and 
maintenance of equipment for all training institutions under the supervisory control 
of MEF.
2.   Development of a computerized vocational training management information system.
3.   Development of a cost control and monitoring system for vocational training.
4.   Provision of in-service training to CFPA management teams.
5.   Carrying out of a study on the development of production activities during 
training in CFPAs.
*     *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
     beginning March 15, 1994
     through September 15, 2003                  2,700,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
     The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
Page  8
                                         The interest rate (expressed as
                                         a percentage per annum) applicable
                                         to the balance outstanding on the
                                         Loan on the day of prepayment 
                                         multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.87
     more than 13 years
     before maturity
More than 13 years before                          1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to be attractive to suppliers. 
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria may be 
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 
thereto. 
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Unless the Bank shall agree to raise the following limits, equipment to be  
especially designed for the Project and other goods estimated to cost less  than the 
equivalent of 250,000 dollars per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding 
the equivalent of 2,500,000 dollars, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Bank.
2.   Technical books and instruction materials estimated in the aggregate to  cost the 
equivalent of not more than 1,500,000 dollars, (including copyright  and once-for-all 
payments to cover anticipated royalty payments from the printing of each book) shall 
be procured under contracts to be negotiated with the relevant publisher or 
proprietor.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 250,000 
dollars or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
Page  9
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure  that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other  information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as  part of the evidence 
to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals  from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such  contracts shall be retained 
in accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts B and C of the Project, the 
Borrower shall employ training and management consultants whose  qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be  satisfactory to the Bank. 
Such consultants, when financed out of the Loan, shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be  financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 2,500,000 
dollars to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special  Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation,  the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and  deposit in the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible  Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been  justified by the evidence supporting the request for such 
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Page  10
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this  Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such 
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no further 
deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either  of the 
following situations first arises:
          (i)  the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals
               should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account  
               in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
               Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
               or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
               eligible Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding
               special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to
               Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
               the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the  
               amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified  by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the  Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further 
deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made 
such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
