                                          Documentof
                                      The WorldBank

                              FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                          ReportNo: 29000-AM




                           PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                             ONA

                                    PROPOSEDCREDIT

                        INTHEAMOUNTOFSDR4.70 MILLION
                            (US$6.75 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA

                                           FOR AN

                         IRRIGATIONDAMSAFETY I1PROJECT

                                         May 10,2004




Environmentally and Socially SustainableDevelopmentUnit
Europe andCentralAsia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnanceof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bankauthorization.

  O&M       Operation andMaintenance
  OD        Operational Document
  OMP       Operation andMaintenance Plan
  OP        Operational Policy
  PAS       Procurement Accredited Staff
  PCN       Project Concept Note
  PID       Project InformationDocument
  PIU       Project Implementation Unit
  PMB       Project Management Board
  PMR       Project MonitoringReport
9

  PRSP      PovertyReduction Strategy Paper
  QCBS      Quality and Cost Based Selection
  RFP       Request for Proposal
  RoA       Republic o fArmenia
  RPA       RegionalProcurement Advisor
  RVP       RegionalVice-president
  SBD       StandardBiddingDocument
  SCWM      State Committee for Water Management
  SOE       Statement o fExpenditures
  SPN       Special Procurement Notice
  TA        Technical Assistance
  TCC       Technical Consultative Commission
  TOR       Terms o fReference
  IAPSO     Inter-Agency Procurement Services Organization
  WSA       Water Supply Agency
  WUA       Water Users Association




                Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
      Country Managermirector:      D-MDowsett-Coirolo
               Sector Manager:      JosephGoldberg
             Task Team Leader:      Giuseppe Fantozzi

                                                                                              FOROFFICIAL, USEONLY
                                                             ARMENIA
                                IRRIGATIONDAMSAFETY 11PROJECT

                                                            CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                      Page


    A.  STRATJ$GIC CONTEXTAND RATIONALE                                              .................................................................  1
      1. Country and Sector Issues              ...................................................................................................      1
     2.  Rationale for BankInvolvement                    ........................    ................................................................  2
     3. Higher Level Objectives to Which the Project Contributes................................................                                         2

    B.  PROJECTDESCRIPTION                        .................................................................................................      3
      1. LendingInstrument.............................................................................................................                  3
      2. Project Development Objective and Key Indicators...........................................................                                     3
      3. Project Components............................................................................................................                  3
      4.  Lessons Learned andReflected inthe Project Design........................................................                                      5
      5.  Altematives Considered and Reasons for Rejection...........................................................                                    5

    C.  IhIPLEMENTATION                  ..........................................................................................................      6
      1.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements ................................................................                                 6
      2.  Monitoring and Evaluationof OutcomesResults ...............................................................                                    6
      3.  Sustainability.......................................................................................................................
                     . .                                                                                                                                 7
      4.  Critical Risks....................................................................................................................... 8
      5. Loadcredit Conditions and Covenants                              .............................................................................. 8

    D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
      .                                          ...................................................................................................      9
      1.  Economic and Financial Analyses ......................................................................................                          9
      2.  Technical...........................................................................................................................           10
      3. Fiduciary...........................................................................................................................            10
      4.   Social.................................................................................................................................       10
       5. Environment......................................................................................................................              11

       6.  Safeguard Policies.............................................................................................................               11

       7.  Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                         11

     Annex 1: Sector and ProjectBackground                            ................................................................................   13

This documenthas a restricteddistributionand may be usedby recipients only in
the performanceof their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                                     .
without World Bank authorization                           .

Annex 1: Sector andProjectBackground                 ................................................................................        13

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby theBankandor other Agencies                                                         .................16
Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring                        ........................................................................        17

Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription            ......................................................................................         20

Annex 5: ProjectCosts...............................................................................................................          29

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                 .................................................................................         30

Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements                                               .....................................   32

Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements               ......................................................................................         38

Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis                    .............................................................................        45

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues          ............................................................................................         52

Annex 11:ProjectPreparationandSupervision                         .....................................................................       55

Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile                 .................................................................................        56

Annex 13: Statement ofLoansandCredits                   ..............................................................................        57

Annex 14: Countryat a Glance        .................................................................................................         58



MAP:IBRD33259

                                                           ARMENIA
                                     IRRIGATION DAMSAFETY I1PROJECT
                                        PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

late: May 10,2004                                                  Team Leader: Giuseppe Fantozzi
:ountry Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo                            Sectors: Irrigation anddrainage (78%); Central government
iector Director: JosephGoldberg                                    administration (22%)
'roject ID: PO88499                                                Themes: Naturaldisaster management (P); Water resource
,ending instrument: Specific Investment Lending (SIL)              management (P); Infrastructure services for private sector
                                                                   development (P); Rural services and infrastructure (S)
                                                                   Environmental screening category: B
                                                                   Safeguard screening category: S3




Project implementationperiod: 4 years                                                                                                I

Expected effectiveness date: September 30, 2004
Expected closing date: March 31, 2009
Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?                    XYes o No

Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?                                      oYes X No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                                     oYes X No
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                                     oYes X No
Does the project includeany critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?                        o Yes    X No

Project Development Objective (PDO)

To protect the people and the socio-economic infrastructure down-stream o f the dams facing lugh risk of failure.
Project description [one-sentence summary o f each component]


The project consists o f three components: (i)Rehabilitation o f Dams: Design, rehabilitation, supervision and installation of
monitoring control devices at 47 dam sites; (ii) Dam Safety Sustainability: provision and installation of safety equipment at 56 dam
sites, provision o f T A and training on telecommunication network, safety preparedness and O&M methodology and practices,
provision o f minimal O&M equipment requirements for 55 dam sites and improvement o f access to 16 dam sites; and (iii)       Project
 Management: localT A and incremental operating costs for the PIU.


 Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Environmental Management Plan (OPBP 4.01) ;Safety o f Dams (OPBP 4.37);
 Projects on international waterways (OPBP 7.50)


A. STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE


1. CountryandSector Issues

Agriculture remains a dominant sector inthe economy of Armenia. It provides varying levels o f
employment to about half of the households, and contributes about 30% o f the Gross Domestic
Product (GDP). Because o f its heavy reliance on irrigation, many important issues facing the
agricultural sector are water related. Inthat context, the Bank's main country assistance goal in
the agricultural sector has been to help create the enabling conditions to jump-start effective
development in the sector through the rehabilitation o f critical infrastructure and the promotion
o f pro-active participation by all stakeholders in the management and preservation o f the
productivepotentialo fthat infrastructure (Annex 1).

Recognizing the potentialcatastrophic consequenceso f dam failure, the Government of Armenia
(GOA)and the Bank agreed in 1999 to give priority to addressing urgent dam safety issues by
proceeding with the rehabilitation o f most deteriorated dams as a separate Dam Safety Project
(DSP). Resource constraints ledto limitingthe scope of this project to 20 irrigationdams out of
a total o f 87 dams (77 for irrigation, 3 for irrigatioddrinking, 6 for energy and 1for recreational
purposes) known at that time to pose the most severe safety risk. Recognizing the safety
concerns associated with other dams, provision was made under the DSP for: (i)            technical
investigations and for monitoring the safety status o f the remaining dams; and (ii)    creating an
emergency repair fundto beused incase o funforeseen andurgentrehabilitationinterventions.

Implementation o f the DSP has been proceeding at more than a satisfactory pace. All planned
interventions are proceeding on schedule, or ahead o f schedule as in the case o f rehabilitation
works and dam safety site installations. Progress is also being made in strengthening the
institutional basis for managing the dams and ensuring their safety. A Water Code and a Law on
Water Users Associations have been enacted and regulations are being adopted to support the
implementation of the new legal framework. On that basis, a Water Supply Agency (WSA), has
been created, that unifies the previous existing five agencies dealing with irrigation and drainage
in the country, and it was given the responsibility, among the others, for the management of
dams. The new legal framework foresees that the management o f small dams would ultimately
betransferred to Water Users Associations (WAS)beingorganized with support under the IDA
financed Irrigation Development Project (IDP) to create an operational basis for effective
participationbywater users inthe management o f the country-wide irrigation system.

Under the on-going DSP, rehabilitation works have been completed on 18 dams out o f the
planned20 dams, ontwo additional dams not originally includedandpreparation o f DamSafety
Plans (DSPL), eachmade o f an Operations & Maintenance Plan (OMP),an Instrumentation Plan
(IP) and, wherever needed, an Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP) have been completed not
only for the 20 dams included under the project but also for additional 33 dams. The impact o f
the completed dam safety works and the DSPL have been significant in tems o f risk reduction
and enhancing sustainability. Technical assistanceprovidedunder the project capacity building
activity rendereda valuable experience to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and WSA staff




                                                    1

which would enable them to implement effectively the proposed dam safety measuresunder the
IDSP 11.

Based on the most recent review o f the procurement activities implementedbythe PIU, it should
be noted that all interventions planned to enhance the safety status of 20 dams under the DSP
could be completed at a cost below that initially foreseen. Savings in the order o f US$ 5.5
million are expected due to unit cost reductions. In addition, on the basis o f detailed technical
investigations the scope o f work on the Sewaberd dam was reduced, leading to cost savings in
the order of US$ 4 million. Thus by project completion date, total savings in the order of US$
9.5 million should be available, allowing        for rehabilitation o f 5 additional dams posing
immediate safety concerns. Since 2 additional dams have also been rehabilitated under the
Emergency Repair Fund component, the final number o f dams rehabilitated under DSP will
therefore be 27. Considering that 11dams do not require any safety interventionand that 2 dams
are now under management o f a Russian company (Operation Power Network) that is also in
charge for their safety and declined participation underthe project, this would leave 47 dams, out
of the existing 87 dams inArmenia, still inneed o fvarious degrees o frehabilitationto bringtheir
safety status to an acceptablelevelby international standards.

2. Rationale for Bank Involvement

Bank involvement in the first DSP enabled the implementing agencies to access international
experience and expertise in the field o f dam safety. It was instrumental in identifying and
introducing best practices in: (i)   assessing the hazards o f dam failure, prioritizing dams for
rehabilitation, and selecting appropriate approaches to the actual rehabilitation o f dams; (ii)
monitoringo f dam safety and establishing a systemfor emergency preparedness; (iii)      introducing
sustainable O&M practices; and (iv) creating the necessary conditions for increasing
beneficiaries' interest and participation in the overall management o f the water supply system.
The Bank's continued involvement under the IDSP I1 will be useful in: (i)facilitating the
continued transfer o f international experience inthe course o f rehabilitation o f the remaining 47
dams, and (ii) WSA and W A Sin the process o f institutionalizing the methodologies
                helping
and practices that secure the long-term safety of dams and subsequently the sustainability of
dam-based socio-economic activities.

3. Higher Level Objectives to Which the Project Contributes.

The project objective is strictly connected with two o f the five priority areas o f action indicated
bythe recentPovertyReductionStrategy Paper (PRSP) namely: (i)          improving      public
infiastructure; and (ii)improving core public sector functions. The project will contribute to the
objectives o f the 2001 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) interms of: (i)    improving governance
andpublic services; and (ii)  creatingjobs through private sector development. A slight linkwith
a third CAS objective, namely rebuilding o f human capital, also exists. IDSP 11's support to
achievement of such objectives will be obtained by enhancing the pace o f regional development
through the creation o f secure conditions for investment and economic activities downstream the
irrigation dams. The project will also contribute to promoting fiscal discipline by being
instrumental in reducing the dependence o f the irrigation system on Government budget. This
will be realized through institutional and policy reforms being sought under the IDP, including



                                                  2

the realization o f full cost recovery for system-wide O&M by 2007, and the introduction o f
Participatory Irrigation Management through the restructuring o f public agencies and the
development o f W A S .

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. LendingInstrument

The proposed project would be financed through a Specific Investment Credit o f US$6.75
million and a Government contribution o f US$ 0.75 million. The conditions to be applied will
be IDA standard that are 10 year grace period, final maturity of 40 years, a service charge o f
0.75% and commitment fee o f 0.50%.

2. ProjectDevelopmentObjectiveand Key Indicators

The Project Development Objective is to protect the people and the socio-economic
infrastructure down-stream o f dams facinghighrisk o f failure. The project aims at upgrading the
safety status of 47 dams inneed of rehabilitationand at puttinginplace the necessaryconditions
(safety monitoring, operation and maintenance, emergency preparedness) that could not be
financed under the ongoing Dam Safety Project, de facto completing the task initiated under
DSP. Interventions under the project are deemed necessary on the basis o f the findings o f
technical investigations undertaken under the DSP, which called for urgent action to prevent
those dams from entering into an emergency state inthe near future. Progresstowards the project
objective would be measuredinterms of: (i)     the number o fpeople protected downstream o f each
rehabilitated dam, and (ii)    achievement o f the target Risk Reduction Profile: progressive
reduction o f the overall risk posed by the whole portfolio o f the 47 dams to an acceptable level
by international standards for a potentially affected population close to 120,000 people along
with the associatedsocio-economic infrastructure (Annex 3).

3. ProjectComponents


The project will constitute a four-year program for improving the safety o f 47 dams, and for
establishing an effective system for monitoring their safety and ensuring the necessary operation
and maintenance. The project will also provide for any gap in safety preparedness measures for
the 27 dams rehabilitated under DSP. The project i s based on an optimized implementation
program composed o f a mix o f both structural andnon-structural measures. Structural measures
are the rehabilitationworks. Such works require relatively long construction times and represent
the greatest part o f the cost o f the program. Non-structural dam safety activities include: safety
monitoring; operation and maintenance; and emergency preparedness. The technique used for
optimizing the implementation program i s the Risk Reduction Profile, which i s described in
Annex 4. Non-structural measures are not a substitute for structural measures and play a
fimdamental role inassuring sustainability o f the rehabilitationworks. It i s throughthe balancing
of the two types o f measures that a sound dam safety program should be implemented.           The
project consists ofthree components:




                                                 3

0 Rehabilitation of Dams: This component will provide for: (i)          engineering design o f
  rehabilitation activities for 29 dams and preparation of an emergency preparedness plan
  for the Yerevan Lake Dam, (ii)    implementation of rehabilitation works on 47 dams (29
  dams for which designs are provided for under this project and 18 dams for which
  designs were already preparedunder DSP); (iii)     construction supervision inthe course o f
  the rehabilitationof the 47 dams; (iv) installationofmonitoring equipment devices on the
  47 dams.

0 Dam Safety Sustainability: This component will provide for:
  (i) installation of safety equipment (telecommunication equipment, sirens,
          searchlights, loud speakers) at 56 dams (including 47 dams rehabilitated under
          this project, 4 dams rehabilitatedunderDSP and 5 not to berehabilitated);

  (ii)    provision o f technical assistance and equipment to WSA to: (a) design an
          integrated telecommunication network for all dams, (b) prepare the necessary
          regulations and operational procedures to guide all parties involved in
          management o f dams, (c) arrange for annual independent audits o f WSA
          operations and accounts, (d) retain the services o f an independent dam safety
          expert for the duration o f the project, (e) provide training in O&M practices for
          operational staff involved at dam sites, and (f) maintain the basic amount o f
          equipment to allow proper O&M at 55 dams (including 43 dams rehabilitated
          under this project, 2 rehabilitated under DSP and 10 dams that will not be
          rehabilitated).

  (iii) improvement of access roads for 16 dams to enable timely access and
          implementation o f safety measuresincaseo f emergency.

0 Project Management: This component will provide for: (i)        technical assistance for PlU
  to co-ordinate all project interventions, and to provide the support services necessary for
  timely and effective project implementation (procurement of goods and services,
  financial control, monitoring o f project activities, preparation o f annual work plans, and
  reporting on the status o f project implementation), and (ii) incremental operational
                                                                 PIU
  cost, includingaudit o fPIUactivities.




                                            4

                         Summary of Project Costs (incl. Contingencies)
                                        Category of      Costs inc.   Yo of
            Component                  Expenditure      :ont. & taxes Total
                                                          (US$M)
A. Rehabilitation of 47 Dams:
A.1.Design and supervision of       Consulting services      0.18     2.4%      0.18          100
works
A.2. RehabilitationWorks            Civil Works              3.72     49.7%     3.05           82
B. DamSafety Sustainability:
B1.DamSafety Site Installations     Equipment - TA           1.11     14.8%      1.11         100
B2. Strengthening WSA
    TA andTraining                  Consulting
                                    Services                 0.41      5.5%     0.41          100
    O&M Equipment                   Equipment                1.35     18.0%      1.35         100
B3. Improvement o fAccess Roads
for safety interventions.           Civil Works              0.3 1     4.1%     0.24           82
C.Project management:
C1, Technical Assistance & Audit Consulting services         0.32      4.1%      0.32          100
C2. Incremental Operational Cost Recurrent Costs             0.10      1.3%      0.09          92
/Total                              I                        7.50      100%      6.75          90



4. Lessons Learned and Reflectedinthe Project Design


The main lesson learnt from the Bank supported program in Armenia and in the other FSU
countries is related to the importance that must be given to institutional strengthening as a
prerequisite for achieving sustainability in the development and management o f irrigation and
drainage infrastructures. Experience gained in the implementation o f successful dam safety
projects around the world points to the need for: (i)  proper documentation o f the pre-project
status o f dam safety; (ii)careful attention to both structural and non-structural remedial
measures; and (iii)  putting in place effective mechanisms for maintaining the level of safety
achieved at the end o f the project. The experience under DSP highlighted the need for paying
particular attention to certain non-structural aspects as training o f staff in O&M practices,
improvement o f the regulatory framework and provisiono f necessary equipment to allow proper
implementation of Emergency PreparednessPlans. These lessons have been hlly reflected inthe
design o fthe IDSP11.


5. Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection

The Government initially considered addressing the safety requirements o f the 47 dams through
a supplemental credit under DSP Ithat would have been limited to USD 4.0 million reflecting
approximately the amount o f proceeds disbursed under the project to mitigate the effects o f the



                                                5

2001 drought. Such limited amount o f credit proceeds would have allowed to focus only on
structural measures. Subsequent analysis of the interventions under consideration and the
associated implementation plans led to a rejection o f that option in favor o f a more
comprehensive and slightly larger project with an implementation period that would extend
almost two years beyond that o f DSP to allow for: (i)  adequate time for effective implementation
o f structural measures, and (ii)institutionalization of the non-structural measures, particularly
O&M andsafety preparedness,to further promote the sustainability o f safety interventions under
bothDSP and IDSP 11.


C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. InstitutionalandImplementationArrangements

The project will support the institutionalreforms initiatedunder IDP to improve the longer term
O&M o f the water supply infrastructure. It will support WSA to acquire the management and
operational capacity to ensure the effective O&M o f those parts o f the irrigation system for
which W A S cannot assume responsibility, that include all medium and large dams and
reservoirs. Inthis light, WSA will retain the services o f an experienced internationally recruited
dam safety specialist who will work with WSA and PIU specialists to undertake an independent
review o f designs, to carry out field visits, to propose corrective actions to the work-plan and to
advise PIU, WSA and IDA on the opportunity o f transferring management o f specific small
dams to WAS.The latter judgment will be based mainly on: (i) level o f complexity o f
                                                                         the
O&M activities and the W A S capability o f performing them; and (ii)             magnitude o f the
negativeimpact causedbythe potential breakage o fthe small dams, which management couldbe
potentiallytransferred.

The proposed IDSP I1will use the same implementation arrangements as currently used under
the DSP. Overall project managementwill be the responsibilityo fthe existingPIUlocated under
the State Committee o f Water Management that reports directly to the Cabinet o f Ministers.
Project coordination and oversight will be provided by the Project Management Board (PMB),
which is already inplace and operational, chaired by the Chairman o f the State Committee for
Water Management.        Bank assessments confirm that the current PIU team possesses the
management, technical, and administrative skills required to ensure that effective use is made of
the proposed Credit. Aside from its success inimplementingthe DSP, this team has successfully
assumed responsibility for the implementation o f the now-completed Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project (IRP), and for the on-going Irrigation Development Project (IDP) and Municipal Water
and Wastewater Project (MWWP). The PIU's performance inprocurement, disbursement, and
financial managementhasbeen fully satisfactory.

2. MonitoringandEvaluationof Outcomes/Results

As inthe case of the on-going DSP, the Monitoring and EvaluationUnit established within the
PIU and reporting to the PMB will be responsible for monitoring project inputs, outputs, and
impact.    This unit will prepare quarterly progress reports which will include information,
analysis, and recommendations on: (i)       progress in the execution o f various elements o f the



                                                    6

agreed work program, including institutional development; (ii)  procurement; (iii) expenditures;
(iv) difficulties encountered in the course of project implementation, proposed solutions or
required assistance; (v) updated project cost estimates, procurement plan, and implementation
schedule; and (vi) updated estimates o f performance indicators (Annex 3). An annual work plan
and the associatedbudgetwill bepreparedand agreed with IDA prior to the start o f eachproject
year. A project implementation completion report will be prepared within six months o f project
completion.

3. Sustainability

Adequate and regular maintenance o f the rehabilitated dams i s critical for the sustainability o f
project benefits. Such maintenance will require sufficient institutional and financial resources,
which have not been readily available in the past due to constraints on Government budget and
inadequate contribution by water users to the cost o f O&M. Following the institutional reforms
instituted in the context of the IDP, WSA was given the responsibility for the operation and
maintenance of all irrigation dams. Their capacity to perform their job depends on the revenues
they generate from water users fees and on allocations from the state budget to compensate for
any remaining Government subsidies. Arrangements were agreed with Government under IDP
on effective modalities for WSA to be compensatedfrom the Statebudget for any underpayment
of water fees resulting from Government deliberate decision to subsidize the cost o f O&M.
Provisions were also made under both DSP and IDP for strengthening WSA to ensure that it
acquires and maintains the necessarytechnical and management capability to effectively operate
andmaintainthe rehabilitateddams.




                                                7

 4. CriticalRisks

                Risk                    RiskRating RiskMinimizationMeasure
~




FromOutputto Objective

Inadequate resources for O&M                 S      Government committeditselfto full O&M
                                                   cost recovery by 2007 as per Article IV,
                                                    section 4.04 o fthe DCA for the Irrigation
                                                   develooment Proiect (IDPI.
FromComponentsto Outputs

 Cost overruns during                        N      Cost estimates were basedon careful survey
implementation                                     work andon actual contract cost data under
                                                   DSP.

Limitedin-countryconstruction                       The experience o fDSPand IDP
 capability                                  N      implementation shows that localcompanies
                                                    are capableto perform.

 Insufficientmanagement and                         Theproject provides for WSA
 construction supervision capability                strengthening. Inthe interimperiodPlUwill
 inWSA                                              continue to assumeresponsibilityfor overall
                                             M     project management and for construction
                                                    supervision. WSA i s taking over this
                                                    responsibility progressively.
 OverallRisk Rating                          M
 Risk Rating - H(HighRisk), S (Substantial Risk), M Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)

 PossibleControversialAspects

 None

 5. Loadcredit ConditionsandCovenants

 EffectivenessConditions

 PlUshall open aProject Account ina commercial bank acceptableto IDAwith an initial deposit
 inlocalcurrency equivalent to at least $60,000.

 Covenants

 I. Allworkstobeperformedundertheprojectwillconformtotherequirementsstipulated
 inthe EMPagreedbetweenthe Government andthe Bankunderthe DSP.




                                                8

11.     The PIU will bemaintained for the duration ofthe project within the State Committee for
Water Management.

111.    At the onset o f each project year, the PIU will prepare and submit to IDA for review an
annual work planandthe associatedbudget.

IV.     The Government o f Armenia shall deposit an amount from its own resources sufficient to
cover the portion o f counterpart financing requirements for local expenditures for which the
Borrower i s responsible under the Project financing plan and which are projected to be made
under the Project inthe three months succeeding. Except as otherwise agreedbythe Association,
the balance in the Project Account, as of the first day o f each quarter, shall not be less than
$60,000 equivalent.

V.      PIU will monitor and evaluate project implementation and achievement, on an ongoing
basis, inaccordancewith indicators satisfactory to IDA (Annex 3).

VI.     PIU will prepare by October 1, 2006, under terms o f reference (TOR) satisfactory to
IDA, a mid-term progress report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities and setting out a strategy for the timely completiono fproject implementation.

VII.     A Dam Safety Expert will be maintained for the life of the project and his
recommendations will be implemented.


D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic and FinancialAnalyses

Project benefits are expected in the form of (i)     reduced safety risk for about 120,000 people
livingdownstream of dams includedunderthe project, (ii)       decreased risk o f production loss due
to potential flooding on about 65,000 ha o f irrigated land; (iii) risk o f lacking irrigation
                                                                  reduced
water for an area o f about 12,000 ha in the Ararat Valley although not flooded (Kechut Dam);
(iv) reduced risk o f not producing over 200 million kwh;and (v) reduced risk of flood damage
to private property and to public infrastructure in the inundation areas. The potential losses
resultingfrom dambreaks on each of the dams covered bythe project are estimated on the basis
of: (i) reduction innet farm income as a result o f floods or loss o f access to irrigationwater; (ii)
flood damage to household structures and other household assets; and (iii) damages to
                                                                                   flood
other non-household assets (roads, irrigation structures, other public infrastructure and
enterprises).

The total value of these potential losses is then weighted by the reduction of the average
probability o f dam failure for the set o f 47 dams to be rehabilitated, over a twenty year period.
Since the project i s designed to reduce the risk level o f dam failure to internationally acceptable
standards the forestalled losses arethenaccordingly treated as projectbenefits, without inclusion
o f human life at risk. The benefits are set off against the project investment costs, and the
economic rate of retum i s then calculated. The resulting ERR for the project is 33.4 percent



                                                   9

(further details are provided in Annex 9). Sensitivity analysis showed that the ERR i s 23.5
percent when the target of reducing the average risk profile for the 47 dams analyzed is not
achievedby 30 percent, and 25.5 percent when the project costs are increasedby 30percent.

2. Technical

The dams proposed for rehabilitation were investigated by an international consulting team
appointed by the independent Technical Consultative Commission on operation and maintenance
o f the irrigation system. The investigations were extended to the whole dam systeminArmenia,
including energy dams. The only dam that has not been exhaustively investigated i s the
recreational dam of Yerevan and IDSP I1will address such omission. Also two energy dams
(Argel and Achpara Dams) were only preliminarily investigated since the Russian company
(Operation Power Network) currently in charge for their long-term management assumed full
responsibility about their safety and O&M including needed detailed investigations and
rehabilitation works.    The urgency o f the proposed repair and rehabilitation works on the
selected 47 dams was confirmed by the international dam specialist hired under DSP and by
those Bank specialists that reviewedthe investigation results. Indesigningthis project, emphasis
was placed on ensuring that the limitedresources available for remedial works are used in the
most efficient mannerpossible andon dams whichpresent a highrisk o f failure. Hazard andrisk
classification, including flood handlingcapability, and a group order rankingo f dam safety was
undertaken dividing emergency from priority measures. Inaddition, physical simulation will be
done to ensure proper reconstruction o f spillways and effective monitoring o f the operation of
structures. Operational and management planswill also be introducedfor all rehabilitated dams.
While detailed designs are ready for 18 dams, detailed designs for the remaining dams will be
done in the course o f project implementation following detailed investigations for which
provision is made under the project. Cost estimates were done on the basis o f actual civil works
contracts awarded byPIUunder DSP.

3. Fiduciary

The PIU will be responsible for financial management and procurement activities under the
project. PIU financial management and procurement capability and practices were reviewed by
the Bank and found acceptable. Specifically, a review o f PIU's financial management practices
under DSP and IDP conducted in January 2004 has shown full conformity with Bank
requirements. On that basis it was concluded that PIU has acceptable financial management
arrangements in place to meet the current Bank requirements in respect to the quality o f
accounting, reporting, internal controls, as well as in respect to the audit arrangements.
Additionally the PIU has been assessed by the team procurement specialist in April 2004 who
found its capacity andpractices inconformity with Bankrequirements.

4. Social

Nonegative social impact is foreseen under the project. Enhancing the safety o f dams will have a
favorable impact on the population as a whole. The planned rehabilitation program addresses
safety concerns known to the beneficiaries as a result o f the failure o f three dams over the past
twenty-five years. The program can be considered demand drivensince the people downstream



                                                 10

are aware o f the potential safety hazard many dams pose to their physicalwell-being and to their
livelihood. Representatives o f local communities have been andwill continue to be informed and
consulted, as appropriate, during project implementation. Priority was given under DSP to the
design o f Emergency Preparedness Plans, including early warning systems. Beneficiaries will
continue to be informed about the procedures to follow in case of threat o f dam failure and
clearly instructed inwhat to do and where to go incase of emergency. Inaddition, water users
served through the dams are expected to actively participate in the safety and in the O&M
training activities through the Water Users Associations (WAS) being organized with
institutional and financial support providedunder IDP.

5. Environment

The nature o f the works to be supported under the project are primarily o f the delayed O&M
type. Inaddition, some work will be neededto correct the design o f spillways and outlets and to
stabilize the slopes o f a few dams to make them safer. These works will not alter the original
capacity o f the dams, nor the quantity and quality o f the water flow. Inthose cases where safety
considerations will call for enlarging the discharge facilities, the peak flood downstream will
remain lower than the flood intensity in the natural conditions of the rivers (without the dams),
and lower than the flood flows with the dams in their current state. The only foreseeable
environmental issues faced by the project are the ones associated with the management and
disposal o f excavated materials, construction concrete rubble and debris, and the possible use o f
quarries. An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) specifying the mitigation measures
required has been prepared, agreed between Government and IDA and disclosed. Consultations
with local communities have been also carried out. All activities envisaged under the project
will conformto the requirements under such E m .

6. Safeguard Policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                         Yes                  No
  EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                             [X 1                  [I
  NaturalHabitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                         11                   11
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                            [I                   [I
  CulturalProperty (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.1 1)                               [I                   [I
  InvoluntaryResettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                 [I                   [I
  Indigenous Peoples(OD 4.20, beingrevisedas OP 4.10)                                  [I                   [I
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                 [ I                  [I
  Safety o fDams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                         1XI                   [ I
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                            [I                   [I
  Projects on IntemationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                   [X 1                  [I

7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

N/A



* By supportingtheproposedproject, theBank does not intend toprejudice the$nal determinationof theparties'claims on the
disputedareas



                                                           11

Readiness

[XI The engineering design documents are ready for the first 18 dams. This will allow the PIUto
float the first tenders inNovember 2004 for all the civil works to be initiated during the first year
ofthe project.

[XI The biddingdocuments for the first year's rehabilitation program are under preparation and
are expected to be ready inSeptember 2004.




                                                 12

                            Annex 1: Sector and Project Background
                   ARMENIA: IRRIGATIONDAMSAFETY I1PROJECT


Agriculture remains a dominant sector inthe economy o f Armenia. It provides varying levels o f
productive employment to about half o f the households. It contributes about 30% o f the GDP.
More importantly, it continues to provide opportunities for subsistence to a large number o f
people displaced as a result o f the drastic decline inthe industrial sector following independence.
Agriculture i s also heavily dependent on irrigation. While Government has taken swift action to
privatize and liberalize most aspects o f the agricultural economy, irrigation related issues remain
prominent among the primary issues facing the sector, and among those that proved to be most
difficult to address under the current circumstances. These issues include: (i)   the poor state o f the
irrigation infrastructure resulting from over a decade o f ineffective operation and maintenance
(O&M), (ii)   the high safety risk faced by the people living downstream o f most dams, (iii)        the
highcost ofwater deliveryresultingfrom heavyreliance on energy intensive pumping; (iv) the
lack of a functional mechanism for effective funding and timely execution o f O&M activities;
and (v) the high rate of water losses due to the deterioration of the water conveyance
infrastructure. To address these issues, the Government has embarked on an ambitious program
to rehabilitate the country's irrigation system and to give users a stake inits management through
Water Users Associations (WUA).

The Bank's main country assistance goal inthe agricultural sector has been to facilitate private
sector development by helping the Government address basic infrastructure and institutional
constraints.   This goal translates into supporting critical investments to (i)       rehabilitate the
irrigation infrastructure; and (ii)create the enabling conditions for greater private sector
participation in the management, maintenance, and further development o f that infrastructure.
The most critical infrastructure in the agricultural sector is the irrigation infrastructure. The
agricultural economy i s fully dependent on its finctionality and safety status. A major part o fthis
infrastructure consists o f dams, which supply a significant share o f the water used for irrigation,
domestic use, and power generation. While continuing attempts are beingmade by Government
to address these issues, limited success has been achieved to-date due to constraints on
expenditures for system O&M compounded by slow progress in implementing Government
strategy for adapting the institutions responsible for managing the water supply- system to the
realities andrequirements o f a private sector controlled agriculture.

Because o f potential catastrophic consequences o f dam failure, the Government decided to give
priority to addressing the dam safety issue by proceeding with the implementationo f the Dam
Safety Project (DSP). DuringDSPpreparation, preliminaryinvestigations were undertakenon all
dams to assess the actual state o f dam structures and the associated level o f risk o f failure. On
that basis, and keeping in mind the resource constraints, the Government made the strategic
choice to concentrate immediate efforts on 20 priority irrigation dams identified as potentially
most dangerous. At the same time, provision was made under DSP for monitoring and fbrther
technical investigations on the remaining dams to allow for possible intervention in case of
emergency. Provisionwas also made for (i)       emergency preparednessplans to be developed and
adopted as an integral part o f the operation and maintenance plan for each dam, and (ii)         early
warning systems in those situations where traditional warning methods may be inefficient.
Provisionwas also made under both the DSP and the subsequent Irrigation Development Project



                                                   13

(IDP) for strengthening the institutionalcapability of the Water Supply Agency (WSA) to ensure
that the safety requirementso f dams, are met. A specific program was agreedwith Government
onhow to strengthenWSA inthe course o fthe implementation ofthe DSP and IDP.

Implementation o f the DSP has been proceeding at a more than satisfactory pace. All planned
interventions are proceeding on schedule, or ahead o f schedule as in the case o f rehabilitation
works and dam safety site installations. Progress i s also being made in strengthening the
institutional basis for managing the dams and ensuring their safety. A Water Code and a Law on
Water Users Associations have been enacted and regulations have been adopted to support the
implementationo f the new laws. On that basis, WSA was created unifyingthe previous existing
five irrigation agencies in Armenia and given also the responsibility for the management of
dams. WSA will share the responsibility for management o f the irrigation system with about 52
W A Sbeing organized with support under IDP to create an operational basis for effective
participationby water users inthe management o fthe countrywide irrigation system.

Based on the information available when DSP was designed, it was known that, while the dams
excluded from the project did not represent an immediate severe safety risk at that time, they
nevertheless were in poor and deteriorating condition. Their exclusion was based strictly on the
lack o f resources, which forced the Government to prioritize neededinterventions on the basis o f
the degree o f safety risk associatedwith each dam. Inrecognitionof that situation, a provisiono f
US$ 2.4 million was made under DSP for (i)       technical investigations to clarify the risk status o f
each o f these dams, and (ii)   emergency interventionincase further deterioration o f any of those
damsposesanimmediatethreat to humanlife.

The technical investigations have been completed and indicated the need for action to stabilize
47 irrigation dams and bring their risk profile down to a socially acceptable level. The
Government is o f the view that the most optimum way to address this need is to implement the
works needed for those 47 dams following the proven approach followed in the on-going
program under DSP. This makes sense on the grounds that (i)        PIU has a proven system inplace
for planning, design, contracting, construction supervision, institutional support, and financial
control, and (ii)  this will allow a unified approach to enhancing the safety status o f all irrigation
dams in the country and will lead to the development o f system-wide O&M methodology and
procedures consistent with the risk status o f all irrigation dams. This will also reinforce notably
the original development objective o f DSP by ensuring that the safety and socio-economic
objectives sought through the rehabilitation o f the original 20 dams are not compromised incase
o f failures o f other dams, which constitute an integralpart o fthe irrigationwater supply system.


The proposedrepeater project is required because the resources available under the DSP are not
sufficient to complete the task o f bringingthe safety status o f all irrigation dams inArmenia to
an acceptable level. Although the commendable efficiency and due regard to economy
demonstrated by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in implementing DSP resulted in
substantial savings, which can be used to expand DSP safety objectives to other dams, those
resources are not sufficient to cover all dams. This shortage o f funds i s inpart a reflectiono f the
fact that new evidence has demonstrated that the risk profile o f irrigation dams not included
under DSP has deteriorated faster than initially foreseen on the basis of the technical
investigations undertaken at the time DSP was prepared.It is also due, inpart, to the reallocation



                                                   14

of funds under DSP to finance drought emergency relief in2001. Further delay inaddressing the
safety concems o f irrigation dams will unequivocally make them a severe safety risk to the
population and socio-economic infrastructure downstream. Given, the tight budgetary situation
inthe country, Government is not ina positionto finance the shortfall from intemal resources.
Government has also been unable to identify an alternative external source o f funding to
supplement the resources available underDSP.




                                             15

      Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
                    ARMENIA: IRRIGATIONDAMSAFETYI1PROJECT

1. OverviewofMajor RelatedProjectsFinancedbythe Bank(completed,ongoingand
danned).
                                                                                  LatestSupervision
                                                  Bank-financed
             Sector Issue                               Project


Maintaining the level o firrigated        IrrigationRehabilitation
agricultural productionand                Project (completed)
improvingthe country's water
resourcesmanagement.
                                                                                                         I
Protectingthe population andthe           Dam Safety Project
socio-economic infkastructure             [ongoing)
downstream ofthe dams facing the
highestrisk o f failure.
Enhancing profitability and               IrrigationDevelopment
sustainability o f irrigated agriculture. Project (ongoing)
Strengtheningparticipatory irrigatior IrrigationDevelopment
systemmanagementthrough water             Project 2 (under discussion)
users associations/federations.                                              U(Highly Unsatisfactory)
P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S Satisfactory), U(Unsatisfactory), I   ~




2. Descriptionof ongoingdonor support


Action ResearchProgram on participatory irrigation management is a program financed through
a grant fkom IFAD and implemented by the PIU. Its main objective i s to support institutional
reforms inthe irrigation sector through a pilot interventions aimed at strengthening two W A Sin
Kasakh and SevJur established under the program.

Agricultural Services Project i s financed by IFAD and has an imgation component that i s
focused on establishing W A Sinthe northern andborderingregions o fthe country.

Armenia Sustainable Water Resource Management Program i s a USAID financed project aimed
at developing Armenia's capacity for sustainable water management to support enhanced
environmental quality and economic growth.

Strengthening Water Management in the South Caucasus Program is a USAID financed
project aimed at promoting the technical dialogue on water management in the three South
Caucasus countries through more effective information sharing and communication on crucial
water management issues.




                                                     16

                              Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
                        ARMENIA: IRRIGATIONDAMSAFETY I1PROJECT

                                            ResultsFramework

                 PDO                       OutcomeIndicators               Useof OutcomeInformation

To protect the people and the socio- 1.Achievement o fthe target Risk      Resultsmonitoring to be used by
:conomic     infrastructure    down-    Reduction Profile for the set o f  WSA, EMA: Operation and
stream o f dams facing high risk o f    dams to be rehabilitated.          maintenance plans and emergency
failure.                                                                   preparednessplans inplace for each
                                                                           damas the basis for informing the
                                                                           population at risk and enabling
                                                                           timely action incase o f emergency.
     IntermediateResults              ResultsIndicatorsfor Each              Use of ResultsMonitoring
      One per Component                          Component
Component One:                      ComponentOne:                          ComponentOne:
Rehabilitation o f Dams: design,     1.Number o f dams rehabilitated;      Results monitoringto be usedby
rehabilitation and construction                                            PIU, WSA, MOF, SCWM :
supervision.                         2. Number o fpeople protected         Rehabilitation o f dams is one o f the
                                        downstream                         critical enabling conditions for WSA
                                                                           to perform effective and timely
                                     3. Value o ftotal socio-economic      O&M. Government is committed to
                                        infrastructure protected           creating the other most critical
                                        downstream.                        enabling condition, namely, the
                                                                           institutiono f a fmpolicy on full
                                                                           O&M cost recovery by 2007, along
                                                                           with provision o f sufficient budget
                                                                           resources to cover anv subsidies.
ComponentTwo:                        ComponentTwo:                         Component Two:
DamSafety Sustainability:            1.Number o fdams for which safety     Results monitoring to be usedby
installation o f safety equipment,      equipment is installed.            PTU, WSA, EMA, SCWM With
strengthening o f WSA and            2. Number o f dams for whichbasic     trained and equipped teams at dam
improvement o f access roads.           equipment for O&M is provided.     sites, WSA, EMA, and WUAs will
                                     3. Number of dams with oversight      be enabled to operate and maintain
                                        technical staffhaving undergone    damsto ensure their safety.
                                        training.
                                     4. Number o f dam sites for which
                                        access roads are improved.
ComponentThree:                      ComponentThree:                       Component Three:
Project Management: TA for PIU       Positive opinionby independent        Result monitoringto be usedby
andaudit project activities.         auditors related to project           PIU, MOF, and SCWM inthe
                                     management and the use o fproject     process o ftheir oversight o fproject
                                     funds.                                implementation.




                                                        17


   2
   a




            I




             I




o    m
   i-   0




0  0    0

                                 Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                      ARMENIA: IRRIGATIONDAMSAFETYI1PROJECT


General


There are 87 dams in Armenia. Four dams are not completed or have no operating reservoir
while the 83 operating dams and reservoir have a total capacity o f about 1400Mm3. Armenian
dams and reservoirs are divided into the following categories according to their intended
purpose: (i)     77 irrigation reservoirs; (ii)irrigation and domestic water supply reservoirs; (iii)
                                                 3                                                                   6
hydropower reservoirs; (vi) 1recreation reservoir. The majority of these dams were built inthe
1960s and inthe 1970s.

The breakup o f the Former Soviet Union, and the scarce amount o f resources allocated for the
O&M of the whole irrigation system since then, resulted in a serious reduction o f the
maintenance activities of the dams infrastructure. In addition to the maintenance related safety
issues, several dams suffer from design deficiencies, such as inadequate spillway and outlet
tunnel capacity. A W h e r concern is the stability o f the dams under highly seismic conditions o f
Armenia. Those dam stability issues came clearly to the surface in 1988, after the devastating
earthquake of Spitak, which forced the previous agency in charge for O&M o f the dams, the
Dam Maintenance Enterprise, to revise seismic parameters and to recalculate seismic stability
requirements set forth for Armenian dams.

By the end of the 90s, preliminary investigations carried out by international experts revealed
that emergency rehabilitations measures on many sites could not be delayed Wher and a set o f
measures aimed at ensuring dam safety should be developed. The relevance o f the alarm was
highlighted by the fact that three complete dam failures had occurred in Armenia during the
previous two and a half decades, Agarak (1974), Mannarik (1978) and Artik (1994) due to
settlement, seepage and erosion problems. The failure o f Artik Dam caused the death o f two
people. To this end, in 1999, the Dam Safety Project (DSP) was developed for the most
endangered20 dams.

UnderDSP, fiu-ther refined investigations havebeen conducted andthe findings havebeenmade
available since the end of 2003. The detailed investigations indicate that emergency measures,
priority measures or at least installation of control measurement devices are needed in 54 out o f
67 dams that were not covered under DSP'. Seven out o f those 54 sites will be rehabilitated
under the ongoing DSP, makinguse of the Emergency Repair Fund and o f some unused funds
still existing under the project while the remaining47 dams will berehabilitated by IDSP 11. The
plannedphysical rehabilitations would regardparticularly the following issues: (i) body                   dam
stability; (ii)    spillway inadequacy to discharge possible highest flood; (iii)                  irrigation outlets
discharge inadequacy; (iv) seepage and erosion o f dam body; and (v) dam crest settlement. It i s


  Full investigationswere notmadeat Yerevan Lake Damfor which further investigationswillbe financedunder IDSPI1and at
two energydams, Argel andAchpara, for which the currentmanagingcompany, the RussianCompanyOperationPower
Network,declinedparticipationunder DSP Iandtook full responsibilityabout their safety statusandemergencypreparedness.




                                                        20

worth noting that some dam sites includedfor rehabilitation under IDSP I1are incomplete or are
non-operational reservoirs, as inthe.case o f Kaps and Getik Dams, since such sites also possess
significant   risk.  Currently,   water   from    these  reservoirs  i s   discharged   through
irrigatiodconstruction outlets and should these outlets fail, the reservoirs may impound and
cause dam failure.

At the same time, due to lack of necessary amount of financial resources, DSP would have
ignored other safety measures, mainly non-structural measure. Those include provision o f
necessary safety equipment, control measurement devices and provision o f a minimal amount o f
O&M equipment. A limitedinvestment for improvingthe safety ofthe access to 16dam sites is
also needed. Such improvement will allow vehicles and trucks to reach those dam sites safely
even incase o f adverseweather conditions.

The IDSP I1provides support for those measures, since it aims at continuing implementation of
the same set o f safety measures initiated during DSP and extend them on other investigated
endangered reservoirs. The final objective i s to bring their technical state and operational
conditions into compliance with international standards resulting in increased safety of
downstream populationandinfrastructure and ofthe associatedsocio-economic activities.

Table 1below shows which activities are expected to be financed under IDSP I1and how those
are complementary and indeedcomplete those initiatedunder DSP.

                    Table 1-Activities Financed under DSP and IDSP I1

  Activity                            DSP           DSP        IDSP I1 Not Needed         Total
                                                Savings and                     or
                                                Emergency                  Competence
                                                    Fund                   of Agencies
                                                                           other than
                                                                          I   W S A
  Technical investigations           I  86            0            1            0           87
  Rehabilitation                        20            7           47            13          87
  Controlmeasurementequipment           20            7           47            13          87
  andinstrumentationplans
  Operation andmaintenance              20            5           55            7           87
  equipment and O&M plans
  Emergency preparedness plans          20           35            1            21          87
  (EPPs)
  Equipmentfor EPPs                     20            3           56            8           87
  implementation(safety equip.)
  Upgrade safety of access roads         0            0           16            0           16




                                                21

ProjectComponentA - Rehabilitation of 47Dams($3.90 million, including
contingencies)

This component would support the rehabilitation o f the 47 dams listed in Table 2, including
design2, supervision, installation of monitoring measurement devices and the necessary civil
works. M a i n types o f activities will be rehabilitations o f spillway and outlet structures currently
in insufficient state, reduction of seepage to acceptable limits, monitoringof settlement in the
dam body, and construction of new spillways and raising of dams crest to ensure required
freeboard. All the dams except two (Akhurianand Angechakot) are earth dams. Special type of
works will be carried out on the incompleted Kaps D a m where a channel will be opened inthe
body of the unfinished dam. An additional spillway will be built on Kechut Damensuring safe
discharge o f 10,000 year flood.

                            Table2 -Listof47 Damsto beRehabilitated




                                                                                spillway, repair stilling basin,
                                                                                installation o fM&Eequipment.
4 Metsavan                7.0    5.40         130.0           260         850   Rehabilitation of dambody,
                                                                                construction o fparapet on the
                                                                                crest, installation o f M&E
                                                                                equipment.
5 Get&                    7.0    1.30         20.0             0          340   @crease discharge capacity o fthe
                                                                                diversion channel

6 Akhurian*2             59.0   510.00        161.0         54000       98,600  Rehabilitation o f mechanical
                                                                                equipment, gates andpower
                                                                                cables.
7 V.Talin-1               7.5    0.22         108.3            60         750   Rehabilitation o f upstreamand
                                                                                downstream faces of the dam,
                                                                                construction of new upstream
                                                                                 concrete slab. installation o f
                                                                                 M&Eequipment.
8 Aghakchi                9.1    0.03         15.2             18         120    Rehabilitation of dambody and
                                                                                 spillway, installation o f M&E
                                                                                 equipment.
9 Agarak                  8.0    0.19         22.3             40        1200    Construction o f parapet on dam
                                                                                 crest, rehabilitation of spillway,
                                                                                 installationo f M&Eequipment.




  Only design for 29 dams has beenincluded under the project since design for 18dams is currently being prepared
under the ongoing DSP I.
  Water from Akhurian Reservoir is distributedequally betweenArmenia and Turkey.


                                                       22

                                          I      tpstreamslop, increase spillway
                                                  apacity, installation ofM&E


                                                    tlet construction ofnew
                                                             stallation o fM&E




                                                    illway and outlet, installation o
                                                M&Eequipment.
18(Shenik       I18.0I0.63I   110.9  I 115 I 650 Behabilitation of dam body,
  I             I    I     I         I     I     bncrease spillway capacity,
                                                 /mstallatioiof M&E'equgment.
191Saralitch                  7.1                b i s e embankment, installation




                                    23

VO        DAM    Height W      Cost inthe USD Irrigated PopulationProposedWorks
                  (m) (Mm3)       without     Area (ha)  at Risk
                               Contingencies             (PAR)
29 Hovk-1a        2.0   0.01         9.0          3        100    Rehabilitation o f downstream
                                                                  slope and outlet, construction o f
                                                                  new spillway, installation o f
                                                                 ~M&Eequipment.
                  13.0 I1.20  1      25.0    I   410   I  1300   behabilitation o f dambody,
                                                                  outlet, and spillway, installation
                                                                  o fM&E equipment.
                  7.3   1.10         11.0         90        5     Provide adequate freeboard,
                                                                  repair outlet valves, installation
                                                                  o fM&Eequipment.
32 shnak-2        7.0   0.30         25.0         100      30    Rehabilitationof embankment
                                                                          rebuild inlet structure o f
                                                                   he outlet, installation o f M&E
                                                                  equipment.
~




                  7.0   0.10         7.0          5        610    Installationo fM&Eequipment.

34 shnak-1
   P              5.2   0.11         15.0         20       120    Rehabilitation o fupstream and
                                                                  downstream slops, repairs inlet &
                                                                  valve chamber o fthe outlet,
                                                                  installation o fM&Eequipment.
35 V.Talin-2      5.0   0.03         54.7         84       760    Erosionbetweenspillway and
                                                                  abutment to be filled,
                                                                  rehabilitationo f feeder canal,
                                                                  installationo f M&Eequipment.
36 N.Bazmaberd    4.5   0.02         1.o          10       100    Installationo fM&Eequipment.




                                           24

w
46 aps

  I
47Werevan




Fig.1below presentsrisk reduction profile, relatedto the Population At Risk only, for the group
of 47 dams to be rehabilitated. It evidences the risk level reduction from project start to its end,
parallel to damrehabilitation. The numberso fpopulationand dam (invarious scales) are plotted
on the vertical axis. The period i s plotted on the horizontal axis. The solid line shows the
number o f dams being rehabilitated. The dotted line referring to population at risk gradually
declines with the number of rehabilitated dams. The number o f population at risk i s taken from
the results o f technical investigation and inthe case of Yerevan Reservoir, that was not included
inthe investigations, itis estimatedto beequalto 4,000.

Figure 1.




                                                 25

Project Component B-D a m Safety Sustainability ( US $3.18 million including
contingencies)

B1.DamSafety Site EquiumentandInstallations US $ 1.11millionincludingcontingencies)

For each dam rehabilitated under the project, DSP provided one short wave radio-station, one
generator and several sirens indownstream settlements. This minimal arrangement provedto be
probably the most important shortcoming o f DSP since implementation o f Emergency
Preparedness Plans (prepared under the project) could not be fully effective due to the lack of
many other type o f equipment, mainly telecommunication, but also searchlights and other
warning systems. The project therefore aims at: (i)     hiring an international consultant to verify
that the proposed telecommunication network proposed to be created by the Emergency
Management Agency (EMA) and to be managed by the WSA i s consistent with the needs
detailed in the already completed EPPs; (ii)    procuring and installing such telecommunication
equipment together with any other type o f safety equipment deemed relevant (sirens,
searchlights, loudspeakers, etc). It is worthy noting that such purchase contracts could include
some training. If the preliminary network designed by EMA will not be modified following
provision of international expertise, the telecommunication network will foresee that 12 short-
wave radio stations with computerized data transmission and fax-modem will be based inWSA
regional centers and will stay in permanent contact with the EMA warning and information
center. Additionally, WSA and EMA will identify 58 stations where to install ultra-short-wave
radio stations in downstream settlements within inundation areas. A set of interface equipment
will ensure the link between short wave radio stations and telephones and short wave and ultra-
short wave radio-stations correspondingly. An automatic phone station and Open Transporting
Net will operate, ensuringsending o f messages or signals simultaneously to numerous addresses
(e.g., registered text, conventional warning signal etc.). Sirens, search lights, loud speakerswith
relevant components (cable, steel pipes, switches, meters) will be provided and/or installed in
any downstream settlements within the inundation areas.          Hand radio-stations will also be
procured and are intended for use o fthe rescueteams.

B2. WSA Strengthening (US $ 1.76 million includingcontingencies)

This sub-component intends to provide TA and equipment to WSA. The TA and training are
currently neededby WSA particularlyintwo main areas: (i)       implementationo f O&M plans; and
(ii) realization o f a proper dam regulatory framework. Concerning the former, the project aims
at bringing an international consultant to review not only the methodology on which the O&M
plans have been prepared, but especially how those O&M activities are being implemented in
practice in order to introduce improvements aimed at making those procedures more effective.
Regarding the latter, it should be notedthat among the provisions o f the Water Code that became
effective in Armenia in 2002, it is foreseen that management o f small dams can be transferred
from WSA to the Water Users Associations (WAS). The transfer clearly regards
implementation o f O&M activities but not ownership, therefore, the WSA will remain
responsible for dam safety supervision.        The mutual tasks and responsibilities should be
established in a regulatory framework attached to the dam transfer act.            The WSA asked
assistanceinthe preparation o fthe regulatoryframeworks. To this effect, the Russiantranslation
o f the World Bankbook "Regulatory Frameworks for Dam Safety -A Comparative Study" will



                                                26

be used. Additional technical assistance, mainly for the legal aspects, will also be provided. The
component also aims to continue supporting WSA with the minimal requirements o f O&M
equipment for dams that will be rehabilitated. The amount allocated for this purpose, although
relevant (US $ 1.35 million including contingencies) i s considerably less than an optimal
solution for which more than US$ 4 million would be needed. Nevertheless, it is deemedto be
sufficient to ensure the minimal O&M requirements. O&M equipment will be provided for the
following 55 dams:

    0   43 dams to berehabilitated under IDSPI1(equipment i s not provided for 4 energy dams
        undermanagement ofa different agency, Armglavenergo);
    0   2 dams rehabilitated underDSP (L.Sasnashen andJajur);
    0   10 dams not subject to rehabilitation.

The equipment will be procured inphases following completion o f rehabilitationworks o f dam
sites on which they are intended to be used. Table 3 below shows the number and type o f
equipment, phasing o fits procurement andthe estimatedbase cost.


                                  Table 3: O&M Equipment

                                 Bulldozer, Bulldozer, Welding Dump Movable Truck
                                  140hp       80hp      machine truck mechanical Crane
                                                                           workshop             Total


UnitCost                             45,000     26,000      9,000 40,00(        38,OOC

Phase 1                        L
                     31                     31                   I      1             1

Phase 2              21        1




                                                                                              I1,233,000]


B3. Improvements o fAccess Roads for Safety Interventions (US $0.32 millionincluding
contingencies).

The dams mustbeprovidedwith access roads inacceptable conditioninorder to enable not only
their operation and maintenance but also any emergency interventions. The project agreed to
allocate some funds for rehabilitation or improvement o f access roads to 16 dams among those
with worst current access andparticularlyrelevant impact incase o f accidents (Table 4). All the
interventions will only involve improvement o f the road bottom, deposit o f materials for
avoiding further deterioration andonly insome exceptional cases widening o fthe roadwidth ina
few points o f its length. Inno case will any new roads be built or any landreclamation issues
raised. Insome cases, fences will be posed for safety reasons around critical areas o f the dam
site to avoidcattle or anybody other thanWSA personnel to access them.



                                               27

                       Table 4. Improvement of DamAccess Roads

     DamName          Height(m)       TotalStorage     Lengthof StretchSubjectto
                                      (mln.m3)         Rehabilitation(km)


2    Metsavan              7.0             5.4                          1.5
3    Akhurian             59.0            510.0                         1.5
4    David-Beck           41.2             3.2                          5.0
5    Ho-hum               46.0             12.0                         1.5
6    Aygedzor             36.0             3.5                         11.0
                                                                                          ~
7    Kamout               34.5             22.6                         1.7
8    Saralitch            3.0              0.01                         7.2
9    Davidashen            8.8             0.17                         0.2
10 Agarak                  8.0             0.19                         0.8
11 Aghakchi                9.1             0.07                         4.4
12 V.Sasnashen            4.5              0.06                         0.7
13 Irind                  15.3             0.07                         2.0
14 Arpilich               16.0            105.O                         3.O
15 Mantash                30.4             8.2                          4.0

16 Aparan                 50.6             91.0                         1.5
   I Total           I               I                I                48.4                I


ComponentC -ProjectManagement(US $0.42 Million)

This component will provide for the expenses of the existing Water Sector Development and
Institutional ImprovementsProjects Implementation Unit established under the Sate Committee
for Water Managementthroughout the duration o fthe Projectandwill include local TA.




                                           28

                                   Annex 5: Project Costs
                  ARMENIA: IRRIGATIONDAMSAFETY I1PROJECT


                                                          Local         Foreign
Project Cost By Component and/or Activity                                               Total
                                                      U S $million U S $million U S $million

Rehabilitation of 47 dams                                   1.48         1.97            3.45
Damsafety sustainability                                    0.13         2.76            2.89
Projectmanagement                                           0.40         0               0.40




Total Baseline Cost                                         2.01         4.73            6.74
 PhysicalContingencies                                      0.17         0.34            0.51
 Pricecontingencies                                         0.06         0.19            0.25
                                Total Project Costs'        2.24          5.26           7.50
                         Total Financing Required           2.24          5.26           7.50



'Identifiable taxes andduties are US$19,000, andthe total project cost, net oftaxes, is US$7.48
million. Therefore, the share ofproject cost net oftaxes is 99.75%.




                                               29

                              Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                    ARMENIA: IRRIGATIONDAMSAFETY I1PROJECT

Project implementationis anticipated to take four years (from September 30, 2004 to September
30, 2008). Overall project management will be the responsibility o f the existing Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), currently in charge o f the Dam Safety Project (DSP) and the
Irrigation Development Project (IDP). Specifically, the PIU will be responsible for the co-
ordination o f all project interventions, and for providing the necessary support services
(procurement o f goods and services, financial control, monitoring o f project activities,
preparation o f annual work plans, andreporting on status o fproject implementation). While PIU
will, at the onset o f the project, be responsible for the supervision of construction activities, this
function will be ultimately taken over by the Water Supply Agency (WSA), once the latter
develops the capability to manage that function. To that end, the project provides funding to
complement that provided under DSP and IDP for strengthening the institutional capability and
equipping WSA to allow it to acquire the capacity neededto assumeresponsibility for managing
the operation o f the water supply system and the implementation o f O&M activities by private
contractors, as well as the skills for performing quality control, developing and executing dam
specific monitoring, operation and maintenance plans, and ensuring that emergency warning
systems are operational. h addition, WSA will retain the services o f an experienced
internationally recruited dam safety specialist who will work with WSA and PTU supervision
engineers to undertake, twice a year, an independent review of the scope and quality o f the dam
safety programs, and on that basis, advise PIU, WSA and IDA on any necessary improvements
andonthe opportunityoftransfer of specific small dams' managementto WAS.

The PIU will continue to work under the leadership o f the existingProject Management Board
(PMB) chaired by the Chairman o f the State Committee for Water Management. PIU has
adequate and competent finance staff, satisfactory accounting systems and software supported by
a simple but hctional operational manual. Internal control procedures in place are generally
satisfactory. The same provisions for independent audit in effect under DSP will apply to this
project (i.e., audit report to be submittedwithin six months o f end o f each fiscal year, the cost of
audits to be financed underthe Credit).

The project will partially support DSP and IDP in providing for the implementation o f the
institutionalreforms needed to improvethe longer term O&M o f the irrigationinfrastructure and
the necessary reforms for strengthening and enabling WSA. This support will be provided
through: (i)  training activities and a study tour plannedunder the project will help exposeWAS,
WSA and PrU staff to international experience and, thus, enhance their knowledge and
infrastructure management skills; and (ii)     provision o f equipment that will help WSA to better
implement O&M activities o fdams andreservoirs.

The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit already in place and reporting to the PMB will be
responsible for monitoring project inputs, outputs, and impact. This unit will prepare quarterly
progress reports which will include information, analysis, and recommendations on: (i)        progress
in the execution of various elements of the agreed work program, including institutional
development; (ii)   procurement; (iii)   expenditures; (iv) difficulties encountered in the course o f
project implementation, proposed solutions or required assistance; (v) updated project cost



                                                   30

estimates, procurement plan, and implementation schedule; and (vi) updated estimates of
performance indicators (Annex 3). An annual work plan and the associated budget will be
prepared and agreed with IDA at the beginning of each project year. A project implementation
completion report will be preparedwithinsix months ofproject completion.




                                             31

              Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                    ARMENIA: IRRIGATIONDAMSAFETY I1PROJECT


1 CountryIssues

The most recent CFAA was conducted in Armenia in spring 2003, and its main findings and
conclusions were discussed with the Government representatives in February 2004. The report,
however, has not yet been finalized andmade public.

Inmaking the overall fiduciary assessment, the CFAA assessed the overall fiduciary risk3 as
significant. Among the reasons for such a rating are: (i)           still inadequate capacity of core control
and supervisory agencies performing the audits within the public sector; (ii)              the fact that while
most o f the basic laws are in place with respect to various entities' (private sector and public
enterprises, including state non-commercial organizations) financial reporting, but compliance
remains a problem and authorities need to improve the quality o f auditing, monitoring and
supervision. However, the fiduciary risk inthe stand-alone financial management arrangements
for Bank-financed investment projects inArmenia i s considered to be low.

The CFAA team identified             the following financial management issues for Bank-financed
projects:

    Government counterpart funding (GCF). Historically, there have been two types of
    problems with GCF: (a) delayed counterpart contributions against the goods, works and
    services procured, i.e. payments for requests presented by the PIUs to the Ministry o f
    Finance and Economy (MoFE) beyond the agreed 30-day deadline, and (b) failure to
    replenish the accounts for project counterpart funds to the level required in Development
    Credit Agreements for someprojects.

    The World BankYerevan Office continually monitorsthe GCF to the PIUs. Recently, a new
    database was developed to monitor them each month; this has enabled the Bank and
    Government to more closely check the status o f GCF and address potential cash flow
    problems ina timelymanner.

    Projectbankaccounts. Weaknesses inthe commercialbankingsector shouldbemanagedin
    relation to maintaining project/transit accounts and Special Accounts on Bank projects.
    Currently, only one local bank (a branch o f a large international bank) i s authorized to
    manage Special Account fimds. The other Special Accounts are held in reputable banks
    outside Armenia. Projectltransit accounts have been opened inother local commercial banks;
    however, the CFAA recommended that (a) the balances inthese accounts be minimized and
    (b) the accounts onlybeusedfor upcoming, short-term payments.

    Project financial management staff. The financial management (FM) staff are local
    consultants employed on terms o f reference, durations o f contracts, and salaries which vary
    among the different PIUS. Some o f these units have had significant staff turnover due, in


 Riskofillegal, irregular or unjustifiedtransactions notbeing detected, measured ona four point scale according to
the CFAA Guidelines(low, moderate, significant or high).



                                                        32

    part, to the higher salaries available inthe private sector (which raises the issue o f providing
    regular training to the PIUs' FM staff, both in IFRS and in World Bank financial
    management and disbursement procedures). Overall, the CFAA concluded that PIU staff
    arrangementsare satisfactory.

0   Issues arising from project audits. At the time the CFAA was prepared, the Government
    was substantially in compliance with all audit covenants o f Bank-financed projects. Most
    projects received clean audit reports for fiscal years 2000, 2001 and 2002, although at least
    half had significant internal control issues (raised in management letters) such as failure to
    reconcile debtors and creditors, and failure to reconcile PIU and World Bank accounting            .
    records.

0   Complianceissues. The audits o frevenue-earningentities, required for World Bank credits,
    have raised several fimdamental compliance issues. It should be noted, however, that no
    involvement of a revenue-earning entity i s plannedunder the Project.

0   Audit arrangements. These are satisfactory. All Bank-financed investment projects are
     audited annually by an independent private sector firm acceptableto the Bank.


2 StrengthsandWeaknesses

The significant strengths that provide a basis o f reliance on the project financial management
system include: (i)significant experience o f PIU in implementing Bank-financed projects
(Irrigation Development Project and Dam Safety Project); and (ii)     the unqualified audit reports
issuedbyPW's project auditors for the last two years.

3 FundsFlow

Project funds will flow from (i) Bank, either via a single Special Account which will be
                                   the
replenished on the basis o f SOEs or by direct payment on the basis o f direct payment withdrawal
applications, and (ii) the Government, via the Treasury at the MoFE on the basis o f payment
requestsofPIU.

4 Staffing

Financial Department in PIU according to the structure consists o f Chief Accountant and 3
accountants, each dealing with one project: IDP, DSP and PPF for Municipal Water and
Wastewater Project (MWWP). However, one o f the accountants who was responsible for DSP
left the position and the new one i s going to be recruited. Currently the remaining accounting
staff manages the work. The chief accountant i s responsible for consolidation, tax and social
security accounting.

5 AccountingPoliciesandProcedures

The accounting books and records are maintained on an accrual basis and project financial
statementsare presentedinUnited States dollars.




                                                 33

Accounting policies and procedures are documented inthe new FinancialManagementManual,
developed for the newproject, are underreview.

6 InternalAudit

PlU has no internal audit function and none is considered necessary given the size of the
organization.

7 ExternalAudit

The auditor o f the PIUhasbeenan independentfirm o f auditors acceptableto the Bank andaudit
has been done based on the two year contract (2002 and 2003). Audit reports for the year ended
December 31, 2002 for Project/SOE and Special Account are clean (unqualified) for both
projects. The majority o f the recommendations of the 2002 year management letters have been
implemented. The remaining recommendations will be implemented by the end of 2004. The
auditors have already performed interimaudit o f the year 2003. The final audit o f the year 2003
i s expected to be received on time. InterimManagement letters for all projects (IDP, DSP and
MWWP) have been provided, reviewed and discussed with the PlU financial staff. No major
problems have been raised by the auditors in the interimmanagement letters for neither o f two
projects

The following chart identifies the audit reports that will be required to be submitted by PIU
together with the due date for submission (in compliance with the revised ARCS settings and
with the newBankaudit policy).


                    Audit Report                                      Due Date
  Financialstatements -continuing entity           Not applicable. There is no continuing entity
                                                   involved inimplementation o fthe Project.
  Project -audit opinion on: (i)  project          Within six months ofthe endof eachfiscal
  financial statements (balance sheet, statement   year and also at the closingo fthe project
  of sources anduses o f funds, and statement o f
  uses o f funds byproject activity), (ii) special
  account statement, and (iii) adequacyo f
  supporting documentation maintained by the
  PlUinrespect of expenditures claimed for
  reimbursement via SOE procedures and
  eligibility o f such expenditures for financing
  under the respective Credit Agreement
  Other (specify)                                  None


8 ReportingandMonitoring

Project management-oriented Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be used for project
monitoring and supervision and the indicative formats o f these should be included in the PIU
newFinancialManagement Manual.


                                                  34

9 InformationSystems

PIU's information systems consists in 1C accounting software, which is used for recording the
transactions and preparation of financial reports denominated in local currency for the local
authorities. Accounting software automatically produces PMRs for financial management (1-A
"Project Sources andUses o f Funds, 1-B"Uses o f FundsbyProject Activities", and 1-C "Project
Balance Sheet"). PMR 2-A "Output monitoring report" and all PMRs for procurement are
produced manually in M S Excel. Quarterly PMRs o f satisfactory quality are submitted to the
Bankontime. Noproblems are noted.

10 DisbursementArrangements

Allocation of credit proceeds: the proceeds o f the Credit will be disbursed in accordance with
the guidelines provided in the IDA "Disbursement Handbook". The Project which i s to be
supported by the Credit has been designed to be implemented over a four year period. The
disbursement arrangements are basedon IDA'Sappraisal o f the financial management capability
of the implementing agency, as well as the experience and lessons learned from the previously
implemented Irrigation Rehabilitation project and the ongoing DamSafety Project and Irrigation
Development Project. Project procurement and disbursements are synchronized ina manner that
allows for a six-month disbursementlag from the time o f completion of a Credit-fimded activity
to the release o f the Credit funds to the supplier/contractor. Credit f h d s are expected to be fblly
disbursed within 18 quarters after the expected effectiveness date of October 1, 2004. The
Project Completion Date is September 30, 2008, with a Credit Closing Date o f March 31, 2009.
The disbursement categories and amounts and percentages to be financed under each category
are presented inthe table, as follows:

                              Table 1: Allocationof CreditProceeds


ExpenditureCategory                       AmountinUS$ million              FinancingPercentage

1.CivilWorks                                    3.00                                  82%
2. Goods                                        2.35                 100% of foreign expenditures;
                                                                     100% (ex-factory cost) of local
                                                                     expenditures; and 80% for other
                                                                     items procured locally
3. Consultants' Services                        0.85                 100% of foreign expenditure; and
                                                                     92% of local expenditures
7. IncrementalOperatingcosts                    0.09                                  90%
8. Unallocated                                  0.46
TOTAL                                           6.75

Use o f statements o f expenditure (SOEs): Disbursement arrangements under the Project will be
carried out using SOE procedures for: (a) goods costing less than $100,000 equivalent per
contract; (b) works costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract; (c) services of
individual consultants costing less than $25,000 equivalent per contract; and (d) services of
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (e) training
andincremental operating costsofPIU.



                                                  35

Disbursementsagainst goods and services exceeding the above limits will be made against fill
documentation and respective procurement guidelines. SOEs will be prepared by the PIU.
Relateddocumentation insupport o f SOEs will not besubmittedto the Bank, but will beretained
bythe PIUfor at least one year after receipt bythe Bank o f the audit for the period inwhich the
last withdrawal from the Credit has been made. This document will be made available for review
by auditors and supervision missions. Ifineligible expenditures, including those notjustified by
evidence furnished, are financed from the Special Account (SA), the Bank reserves the right to
withhold further deposits inthe SA. The Bankmay exercise this right untilthe Recipient has: (a)
refunded the amount involved, or (b) (if   the Bank agrees) submitted evidence o f other eligible
expenditures that canbe usedto offset the ineligibleamounts.

Although IDSP I1has the same development objective as the ongoing DSP (IDA Credit 3260), it
will be treated as a completely separate project and the disbursemento f its credit proceeds will
be done through specific dedicated Project and Special Account.

Special Account: To facilitate timely project implementation, the PlUwith the assistanceo f the
MOFE will establish, maintain and operate, under conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special
Account (SA) in US$, in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The selection process and
criteria for selection of the commercial bank would follow IDA standard selection procedures.
Payment of eligible expenditures (civil works, goods, services and operating costs) may be made
by the PIU out o f the Special Account. The authorized allocation is US$ 650,000. The initial
deposit into the Special Account will beUS$ 300,000, untilthe aggregate amount o fwithdrawals
from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by IDA shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent o f SDR1.5 million. The Special Account
will be replenished at regular intervals, preferably monthly. Replenishment applications will be
submitted on a monthly basis andwill be accompaniedby full documentation, including monthly
bank statements of the Special Account, for all items except those eligible for disbursement on
the basis o fthe SOEs.

Project Account:     The PIU will also open a project account into which a share o f the
Government's contributions will be deposited on a quarterly basis. A deposit by the Government
for counterpart fknding in the amount of US$ 75,000 i s a condition o f project effectiveness
(estimated to be the counterpart fwnding requirements for the first 3 months o f Project
implementation). The balance inthe Project Account, as o f the first day o f each quarter, has to
be not less than$75,000 equivalent.

Project accounts will be autonomous and will be audited annually by an independent auditing
firm acceptableto IDAonterms ofreferencepreviouslyagreedwithIDA.

11 TheproposedAction Plan

No Action Planhasbeenproposed as a result o fthe FinancialManagement Assessment.




                                                36

12 Supervision Plan

During project implementation, the Bank will supervise the project's financial management
arrangements in two main ways: (i)      review the project's quarterly FMRs and six-monthly
management reports as well as the project's annual audited financial statements and auditor's
management letter; and (ii)during the Bank's supervision missions, review the project's
financial management and disbursement arrangements (including a review of a sample of SOEs
and movements on the Special Account) to ensure compliance with the Bank's minimum
requirements. A s required by the Bank and ECA guidelines, Country Financial Management
Specialist for Armenia will carry out regular FMsupervisions of the project.




                                               37

                              Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
                  ARMENIA: IRRIGATIONDAMSAFETY I1PROJECT


General

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out inaccordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits'' dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated inthe Legal Agreement. For each contract to be financed by
the Credit, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for
prequalification, and time frame are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank project team in
the Procurement Plan in Table A. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as
required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional
capacity. Other procurement information, including IDA'Sreview process etc. is presented in
Table B1and Table B2.

The project will be financed from the proceeds o f the proposed US$6.75 million credit and the
local expenditure contributions from the Government o f Armenia (US$0.75 million). The total
cost ofthe project would beUS$7.50 million.

1. ProcurementofGoods

Goods and related technical services consisting of telecommunication equipment and equipment
for dams maintenance would be grouped to the extent possible and considering project
objectives, inpackage sizes that would encourage competitive bidding. The following methods
o fprocurement wouldbe followed:

       (9      International Competitive Bidding (ICB): Procedures would be used for
               contracts    above    US$lOO,OOO      equivalent for   the    procurement     o f
               telecommunication equipment and equipment for dams maintenance. The IDA
               StandardBiddingDocuments (SBD) for ICB Goods will be used.

        (ii)   Shopping: This procedurewouldbeusedfor off-the-shelf goods estimated to cost
               less than US$lOO,OOO per contract. Shopping, which requires to obtain three
               quotations, i s usedherebecausemore competitivemethods are notjustifiedon the
               basis o f cost or efficiency.   The ECA Regional sample format for shopping
               "Invitation to Quote" available on the ECA Procurement Web Site will be
               applied.

        (iii)  UNIAPSO: Goods that meet the criteria set forth inparagraph 3.9 of the Bank
               guidelines, estimated to cost less thanUS$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract may be
               procured from IAPSO or other U.N.Agencies providing similar goods or services
               inaccordancewiththeprovisionsofparagraph 3.9 ofthe Guidelines.

        (iv>   Direct Contracting@C): would be used, subject to the Bank's prior approval, to
               procure spare parts for the existing equipment.


                                                 38

2. Procurementof Works

Civil works under the project shall be packagedto the extent possible bearinginmindthe Project
ImplementationPlan, in order to increase competition and to limit the number o f small works
contracts.

       (i)    International Competitive Bidding (ICB) For IDA-financed contracts more
              than US$600,000 equivalent, IntemationalCompetitive Bidding(ICB) procedures
              will be used. The IDA Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for ICB Smaller
              Works will be used.

              Inthe comparison of bids for works to be procured above through ICB, local
              contractors, ifany, will receive a preference inaccordance with Appendix 2 o f the
              Bank's Guidelines.

       (ii) NationalCompetitiveBidding(NCB)For IDA-financedcontracts lessthan
              US$600,000 equivalent, National Competitive Bidding(NCB) procedures will be
              used. The ECA regional Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for NCB will be
              used and the conditions applicable for conducting NCB procurement attached to
              the Credit Agreement will be followed.

3. Selectionof ConsultingServices

Contracts shall be packaged for consulting services from firms and individuals required for
design and supervision and project management etc.. Short lists o f consultants for services
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of
national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant
Guidelines. The following methods ofprocurement would be followed:

              Quality and Cost-based Selection (QCBS) procedures would be used for
              contracting consultant services relating to the designs o f rehabilitation, safety
              equipment installation & construction supervision works, dams safety study and
              planning& design ofaccess roads improvements.

              Consultant Qualification procedures would be used for contracting most
              qualified firms with contracts under US$lOO,OOO.

              LeastCost Selectionprocedures wouldbeusedfor contracting the financial audit
              services. The shortlist shall consist o f firms acceptable for the Bank financed
              projects.

              Individual Consultants would be hired in accordance with Section V o f the
              Guidelines. Individual consultants would behiredfor small assignments o f short-
              term duration for consulting services related to the design o f EMA
              telecommunication equipment scheme and the services o f additional PIU
              consultants to meet the requirements o fthe proposedIDACredit.



                                               39

        (v)    Single Source procedures would be used for the direct contracting o f PIU
               consultants transferred from DSP Project.

        (vi)   Expenses for the study tours under the project related to the project will be
               covered under training category anddisbursedbasedon SOE.

4. IncrementalOperatingCosts

The operating costs, which would be financed by the project, would be procured using the
implementation agency's administrative procedures which were reviewed and found acceptable
by the IDA. Those will include: office supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, utilities,
communications, bankingcharges, audit and any other related operational expenses.

5. Notification of Business Opportunities

A General Procurement Notice (GPN) would be publishedinthe UN "Development Business"
on -line (UNDBonline) and inthe Development Gateway's dgMarket around the period o f Credit
Negotiation. For ICB goods and works contracts and large-value consultants contracts (more
than US$200,000), Specific Procurement Notice would be advertised in the Development
Business on -line (UNDBonline) and in the Development Gateway's dgMarket and national
press, and inthe case o f NCB, ina major localnewspaper (inthe national language).

6. Review by the IDA of Procurement Plan

The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project implementation which
provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been agreed between the
Borrower andthe Project Team as shown inTable A. Procurement o f goods, works and services
for the project would be carried out in accordance with the agreedprocurement plan, which will
be updated in agreement with the Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual
project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

7. Prior Review

        (i)     Goods and works: Prior review o f bidding documents, including review o f
                evaluation, recommendation o f award and contract would be conducted for all
               ICB and DCfor goods and all work contracts above US$l,OOO,000.

        (ii)    Consulting Services: Requests for Proposal (RFP), short lists, terms o f condition
                o fcontracts as well as evaluation reports andrecommendation for award would be
               prior reviewed by IDA for contracts for individual consultants above US$25,000
                and firms above US$lOO,OOO. All documents and recommendations involving
                single source for firms and sole source for individual consultant contracting
               would be subject to IDA prior review.          Terms o f reference for consulting
                assignments maybe reviewedby the Project Team.




                                                 40

After award of contracts, shouldanymaterialmodificationsor waiver ofterms and conditions of
a contract resulting in an increase or decrease above 15 percent of the original amount, IDA
would undertake a prior review o f such modifications (including modifications to contracts for
consulting services).

8. CustomDutiesand Taxes

All custom duties and taxes for goods specifically imported for the project and for all technical
assistancewould be financed bythe Borrower.

9. Assessment of the agency's capacityto implementprocurement

Water Sector Development and Institutional Improvements Projects Implementation Unit
(WSDII PrU) i s a PIU under the State Committee for Water Economy. The PIU has already
served as Government's PIU for three IDA-financed projects and one Project Preparation Fund:
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (IRP), completed in May 2001, Dam Safety Project (DSP) -
effective since April 2000, Irrigation Development Project (IDP) - effective since December
2001 andPPF for Municipal Water and Wastewater Project - effective since December 2001. As
a result, the PIU has gained some experience in management o f project procurement in
accordance with World Bank procurement guidelines. PIU's Procurement Unit i s headed by a
Senior Procurement Specialist, assisted by two procurement specialists - one for procurement
under IDP and the other under DSP. An assessmentof the capacity of the PIU has been carried
out by Yingwei Wu in April 2004. The assessment reviewed the organizational structure for
implementingthe project andthe interaction between the PIUandthe line ministries. Currently
one procurement specialist has received Procurement Management training in ILO, Turin in
2001, and one in Regional Procurement training in Tbilisi in April 2004. The procurement unit
should be strengthened through further training o f the staff. Therefore, procurement training
plan and intensified Bank's supervision are recommended to assist in building procurement
capacity for the project.

Most ofthe issues/ risks concerning the procurement for implementation o fthe project have been
identified. RFPs and biddingdocuments for the first year of project implementationhave been
prepared and two ICB packages are under tendering and will be ready for signing contracts at
credit effectiveness. This report indicates "High"risk basedon the country environment assessed
byCountryProcurement AssessmentReport (CPAR) completed in2003.

Based on assessment o f the capacity for procurement administration o fthe project, the following
Action Planto strengthen the procurement administration capacity o fthe PIUi s recommended:

        1.      The staff ofProcurement Unitwould be given the opportunity to receive training
                on Bankprocurement at Bank's regional procurement workshop or inILO, Italy.

        2.      Initiating a Project Launch Workshop in September 2004 around the credit
                effectiveness, as part o f the project implementationhapacitybuilding initiatives,
                especially inprocurement.




                                                 41

3.   The project would be subject to intensified supervision by the Bank. Duringthe
     first year of project implementation, there would be at least two supervisions.

4.   Periodic ex-post review by the Bank o f 1 in 5 contracts during the supervision
     missions.

                    OverallProcurementRiskAssessment: High

                               Type Pmcurement    , Document   Invitation Contiact
                                     method                                         contcect
                                                   preparation  tobid     signing   completion
                                              % g
                                              ,oQj
         Description .
                                              fU
                                              9 s

  ConsultinaServices




                                     42

                                                             I
 8  Dam of Yerevan Lake                                                          1     Mar05        Apr05     JunO5                         OecO5

    _. .-- -                                                                      . -    _ - -       - . .                                            . - .
                                                          "W
                                                                                                                                            startof
                                                                                                                                           Delivering

               " - -                                               -
  1 Procurement and installation of                        G           ICB       3     Dec04        Jan05     Mat-65-                       A u S O F
    telecommunication equipment for DMA-                                               -05          Jan06     Mar05                         Aug06
    WSA f?r EPP_implementation                                                         Mar05        May06     Aug05                        .- - __-
                                                                                                                                            Jan07
                                                     _-"
                                          I                                                                   A"g05                     -
 2                                                                      JS      2
                                                                  _I__I
    Procurement and installation of                        G-                          May05     "" JunO5'                                  NwO5
    telecommunication equipment for DMA-                                               DecO6        Jan07     Mar07                          Ju107
   _-
    WSA for EPP imeem-e?tatLon
       -_-                                _ _   - -               - - __- - -     -  -         -_    -
 3                                                                                        -I           I
    Procurement of equipment for dams                     -G-          ICB       3     Jan05     -__Mar05-- -Ap&'                           AugO5
    maintenance                                                                        Jan05        Mar06     AprO5                         AugO5
   - __-                  -----               __        __..      _ _ _      _____   -Jano;r---   "_
                                                                                                   -M&!---. .!!-e? __ -*-A_UgEL--
Operatinn Cost                                               II
  1 Operation    -....PILI     .. .   .. ....-  -                        -.__      -.                        ....... _...I__.__"._II._._.........__."
                                                                                                                    .
                     ~                              ~            ~                            ~             _"                                           _"
                          (Vehicle spare parts and
    maintenance, fuel, communication and
    utilities, stationery and printing services,
    workshop conference expenses, bank
    services)
   ._.                                                                                   .                           I.I_.-_...._I.....          "_.I"




                Table B1: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review


    Expenditure                         Procurement                           Prior-Review                 Contracts Subject to
      Category                      Method Threshold                            Threshold                       Prior Review
                                              (US$)                                (US$)                      (US$ millions)
1.Works                              ICB over 600,000                         Over 1,000,000                                             1.4
                                    NCBbelow 600,000




2. Goods                             ICB over 100,000                          Over 100,000                                              2.50
                                       Shoppingbelow
                                             100,000

3. Services                                                               Over 100,000 for firms                                         0.30
                                                                             Over 25,000 for
                                                                                 individuals

                           Total value of contracts subject to prior review: $4.20 million




                                                                       43

             TableB2: ProcurementandTechnicalAssistanceRequirements

Ex-post Review Section 1: Ex-post review mechanism: Review carried out inaccordance
               withPara. 4 ofAppendix 1ofthe Bank'sGuidelinesandreviewsduring
               supervision missions. Frequency o fprocurement supervision missions
               proposed: One every six months and once a year during subsequent years
               (includes special procurement supervision for post-review).
               Section 2: Training, InformationandDevelopment on Procurement
               Estimateddate ofProject Launch Workshop:         September 2004
               Estimateddate o fpublicationof General Procurement Notice: May 2004
               Indicate ifthere is procurement subject to mandatory SPN inDevelopment
               Business: Yes.
               Domestic Preference for Goods: N o
               Domestic Preference for Works, ifapplicable: Yes
               Retroactive financing: N o
               Advance procurement: No.
               Explainbrieflythe Procurement MonitoringSystem:
               Allprocurement related documentation that requires IDA'Spriorreview
               would be cleared byProcurement Accredited Staff (PAS) andrelevant
               technical staff. Packagesabove mandatory review thresholds would be
               reviewedbythe RPA. ThePIUo f the Borrower would maintaincomplete
               procurement files, especially for the contracts subject to post-review, which
               would be reviewed by IDA'Ssupervision missions. The Procurement Plan
               would be updated annually. Procurement informationwould be recorded by
               the PIUandthe PIUwill submit PMRs on semiannual basis startingin
               January2005. This informationwould include: revisedcost estimates for the
               different contracts; revisedtiming o fprocurement actions, including
               advertising, bidding, contract award, and completiontime for individual
               contracts. A Management Information System(MIS), with aprocurement
               module would help the PIUmonitor all procurement information.
               Co-financing: No.
               Section 3: Procurement Staffing
               Indicate name o fProcurement Staffor Bank's staffpart o fTask Team
               responsible for the procurement inthe Project:
               Name: Yingwei Wu               Ext: 35291
               Explainbriefly the expectedrole o fthe Field Office inProcurement: N.A.




                                           44

                             Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis
                   ARMENIA: IRRIGATIONDAMSAFETY I1PROJECT

EconomicAnalysis
A. Introduction

The general approach has been very conservative. The analysis has not considered the benefits
linked to saving human lives. It did not also consider the marginal reduction o f the risk profile
that it will cause to the 27 dams rehabilitated under DSP due to introduction under the new
project o f additional non structural measures and WSA strengthening activities. The potentially
affected types o f infrastructure have been evaluated at the lowest value between market and
replacement value. The adjustment factor for this costs has been generally 0.3 (meaning that
damages producedby the inundation amount to only 30 percent o f the cost o f the structure) and
some costs associated with potential dam breaks, such as expenses for implementing rescue
operations, have not been included. The evaluation o f the damages caused incase o f dambreaks
has been done separately for Kechut Dam, for Kaps Dam and for all remaining 45 dams to be
rehabilitated. This was due to the different nature o f the potential losses caused by Kechut and
Kaps (that are also the larger single investments under IDSP 11) that needed separate evaluation
o ftheir cases.


B. Evaluation of lossesat 45 dam sites

Generally, implementationo f the rehabilitationinterventions on 45 dams (excluding Kechut and
Kaps) would leadto:

    A) Reducedrisk for 118,500 people livingdownstream o fthe damsto be rehabilitated.
    B) Reducedrisk ofpotentialfloodingandloss ofyieldon64,350 haofirrigatedland.
    C) Reduced risk o fpotentialdestruction o f 1,090 private houses and various other quantities
    of roads, public utilities, other infrastructure, and industrial enterprises.

Only the benefits inpoint B) and C) have been estimated. The process o f evaluation of potential
losseson those 45 sites was basedon:

STEP 1-Thestarting point hasbeenthe evaluation made by the international technical consulting
team in charge o f the technical investigations (beginning o f 2003) o f the relative economic
importance o f the damages that the breakage o f each dam could have been produced. The
technical team, made a desk review o f the quantity o f infrastructure existing in each dam
inundation area and on the basis o f their analysis associated a relative economic importance
indicator ranging from 0 to 3.65 to each dam. To a higher number of quantities o f infrastructure
and/or value o f such infrastrcture in the inundation area corresponds an higher value o f the
indicator.

STEP 2- The PIU preparation team chose a set o f 10 dams considered to be representative of
Armenia in terms o f economic development o f area downstream, extension o f the inundation
area and strength o f the potential flood waves. A detailed calculation was made, through field



                                                   45

visits and using current market prices o f the potential losses at those 10 dam sites. All potential
losses including any infrastructure inthe inundation areas o f those 10 dams have been evaluated
andthe average adjustment factor usedwas equalto 0.3.

STEP 3- Next step hasbeento divide the aggregate amount of the detailed estimated forecastsof
losses at the selected 10dam sites as described inStep 2, by the total o fthe values those 10dams
were attributed in terms o f relative economic importance indicator as described in Step 1. This
was needed to estimate the value to be attributed          for one unit o f the relative economic
importance indictor calculated by the technical team. The result o f such experiment indicated
that a single unit ofthe indicator couldbe estimated to beworth US$874,200.

STEP 4 - The relative economic importance indicators for the remaining dams have then been
multiplied for such value o fUS$874,200 obtaining the estimatedvalue o f losses inall 45 sites to
beinthe order o fUS$55.8 million.


               Table 1.Detailed Calculation of PotentialLosses at 10DamSites




rota1number          13.45      1,090       499       0.6       64.3      91.7        9

unitcosts (US$)                30,000       580    100,000    50,000     20,000     100,000
rota1cost of
replacement ('000
US$)                          32,700.0    289.4      60.0     3,215.0    1,834.0    900.0
Adjustment factor                0.3        0.5       0.3       0.3        0.3        0.3
rota1losses
['OOO US$)                   I 9,810.0     144.7     18.00     964.5      550.2      270.0  11,757.4

Oneunito fthe relative economic importance indicatorhas therefore been estimated as follows:
US$ 11,757,400 dividedby 13.45 that is US$ 874,200.




                                                46

Table 2. Calculation of Potential Losses at 45 D a m sites


 N o      Dams          Economic      Potential losses
                      losses' factor   ('000 US$)
  1 Djoghaz                      2.3           2,010.6
 2 Hovk-2                       0.75              655.6
 3 Maralik                      1.75            1,529.8
 4 Metsazhan                    2.05            1,792.0
  5  Getik                      2.01            1.757.1
  6 Akhurian                    3.65           3,190.7
 7 V. Talin-1                   1.85            1.617.2
  8 Aghakchi                      1.1             961.6
  9 Agarak                      2.25            1,966.9
 10 L.Talin                     0.75              655.6
 11 Katnaghbjur-1                  2            1,748.3
 12 Vosketas                    1.35            1,180.1
 13 Kosh                          1.8           1,573.5
 14 Talish                      1.35            1,180.1
 15 V. Sasnashen                1.25            1,092.7
 16 hind                           2            1,748.3
 17 Davidashen                  1.35            1,180.1
 18 Shenik                      1.85            1,617.2
 19 Saralitch                   0.85              743.0
 20 Aknalitch                       0                0.0
 21 Karaglukh                   1.65            1,442.4
 22 Aghavnadsor                   0.5             437.1
 23 Ors                         1.15            1,005.3
 24 Martiros-1                  0.85              743.O
 25 Hartavan                      1.1             961.6
 26 Khashtarak-1                  0.6              524.5
 27 Khashtarak-2                  0.6              524.5
                                                1,180.1
                                                1,180.1
                                                1,966.9
                                                  437.1
                                                   874.2
 33 Shkarshik                   1.95            1,704.6
 34 Ash&-1                      1.25             1.092.7
 35 V. Talin-2                  1.85             1,617.2
 36 N.Bazmaberd                 0.85               743.O
 37 Aragats                         0                0.0
 38 Katnaghbjiur-2                0.6              524.5
 39 Yeghnik                     0.35               306.0
I40 IGeghwkunik-1    I            0.21             174.81


                          47

                     I41 ISDandarian       I           3.251           2.841.01
                      42 Angeghakot                    3.25            2,841.O
                      43 Tolors                        3.25            2,841 .O
                      44 Shamb                         1.85            1.617.2
                      45 IYerevan                         0                0.0
                              Total                    32.4           55,780.0

C. Evaluation of losses at Kechut and Kaps site

Potential losses at Kechut and Kaps Dams were estimated individually due to the relevance o f
socio-economic activities in the inundation area downstream. All missing data have been
collected duringfield visits that took place at the beginningo f April 2004.

As far as Kaps is concerned the only realissue was the evaluation of amilitary base. Ithasbeen
evaluated at the cost o f its buildings only, without inclusion o f losses on military equipment,
weapons etc., which informationwas, incidentally, not available.

             Table 3. DetailedCalculation of Potential Losses at Kaps DamSite
                                                 1         I             I         1            1
          Losses Types            Measurement Amount Adjustment U z g s t TotalCost
                                                              Factor                   WS%)




The case of Kechut Damincludes the break of water delivery to Sevan Lake and subsequently,
assuming release fiom Sevan lake is not increased, lack o f water delivery to Sevan Hydropower
Cascade (120 mln. m3delivered in 2003) and to 11,440 ha o f Ararat Valley land. One m3o f
water, while passing through Sevan Cascade hydropower stations (HPS) generates 1,89 kwh of
energy. Inthe result o f stoppage of six HPS, when economic cost o f 1kwh o f energy is 32.5
AMD (see Economic and Financial Analysis of IDP), total losses would amount to US$ 15.8
million (see Table 4). It i s worth noting that the above stated interpretation assumes that the
Vorotan and Arpa-Sevan Tunnel can deliver the amount o f water delivered from Ketchut
reservoir. If this should be not true, for example the Vorotan tunnel should collapse, such
investment inKetchut dam would not have much economic sense (beside any consideration on
savings humanlives) since water could not be delivered neither to the energy stations nor to the
Ararat valley. It is our knowledge that the Government o f Armenia i s considering the necessity



                                                  48

o f such investments and that such risk profile curve downstream in the system will be
normalized, as muchas it is technically possible, inthe courseo fnext few years.

                 Table 4. Detailed Calculation of PotentialLosses at Kechut D a m Site




Estimationo ftotal losseso f all 47 dams i s giveninTable 5.

                      Table 5. Calculationof Total Losses at 47 DamSites
                        1     Dams                    I  PotentialLosses
                                                            (`OOOUS%~       I
                         45 dams                              55,780
                         Kaps                                  4,259

                              Total                           94,214



D. Calculation of ERR and NPV

ERRis calculatedover aperiodof20 years. Discount factor for NPV is assumedto be 10%. The
benefit stream has been calculated multiplyingthe value o f potential losses by the reduction of
the averageprobability o f failure for the group o f 47 dams as a result o f project implementation.
The latter has been estimated to be currently at 3,09% (the forecast was made by the
intemational consulting team o f the company Jacobs GIB hired under the Dam Safety Project)
andthe project expect to lower it, by2007, to 1,87% (target level). The reductionofthe average
dams' break probability percentage is assumed to follow the schedule of rehabilitation works
underthe project andaccelerateparticularly inyear 2006 (see Table 6).




                                                  49

                      Table 6. Reductionof Dams' BreakProbabilityPercentage


                   Year     DamsBreak Probability         Numberof Dams
                                   Reduction                 Rehabilitated
                   2005               40%                           19
                   2006                57%                         27
                   2007                3%                           1
              I   Total   I          100%             I            47             I


The reduction o f the average dams' break probabilitypercentage insituations "with Project" and
"without Project" has been calculated for each of the 20 years o f the analysis. It has then been
multipliedby the total value of losses to obtain the benefit stream. The net benefit stream has
been obtained subtracting the Project investments stream. The resultingERR for the Project is
33.4% andNPV (10%) is US$7,425 thous. (see Table 7).

                               Table 7. CalculationofNPV andERR


          ReductionofLosses Dueto Rehabilitationof47 Dams
                                                                   Investments     NetIncomes
 Years   DamBreak         DamBreak Reductionof Reductionof            Costs            Row
          Probability     Probability DamBreak         Losses       (`000 US$)      (`000 US$)
        WithoutProject withProject Probability (`000 US$)




   2020            5.72%        3.07%        2.65%        2,497.3                         2,497.3
   2021            5.96%        3.20%        2.76%        2,599.1                         2,599.1
   2022            6.20%        3.33%        2.87%        2,703.1                         2,703.1
   2023            6.45%        3.46%        2.99%        2,812.4                         2,812.4
                                            39.49%       37,201.9          ERR             33.4%
                                                                           NPV            $7,425.0



                                              50

E.SensitivityAnalysis

One assumption of the sensitivity analysis was that the Project would not be able to reach the
target level of risk profile for the set of 47 dams (1.87%) but would miss it by 20 percent,
reaching a level of 2.24% in 2008. Inthis case the ERR i s 25.5% and the NPV i s US$ 4,751
million, Another assumption was to assume that project costs were underestimated by 30%. Even
inthis case the ERRis quitehigh, 23.5%, andNPV isUS$ 5,79 million. Summarizedresults of
the sensitivity analysis ofthe Project are giveninTable 8.


                                 Table 8. Summary Sensitivity Analysis

                                                                ERR        NPV(`000 US$)
 Inabilityto reachthe target dambreakprobability - increase
 by20% - 2.24%                                                 25.5%            4,754
 Investments costs increaseby 30%                              23.5%            5,794




                                                51

                               Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
                  ARMENIA: IRRIGATION DAMSAFETY I1PROJECT

The project environmental screeningcategory is "B", andthe policies triggeredare listedbelow.

          SafeguardPolicies                                               Triggered?
          EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                              Yes
          Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                        N o
          Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                            N o
          Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)               No
          InvoluntaryResettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                 No
          Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                No
          Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                 No
          Safety o fDams (OP/BP 4.37)                                          Yes
          Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)                             No
          Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                  Yes

Safeguard-RelatedRisks:

Inprincipal the project does not pose significant risk inrelationto any of triggered policies.
IDSP I1i s a repeater project, the activities to be implementedare o f lesser complexity and scale
thanDSP, andinthe courseofimplementation ofDSP andofthe IrrigationDevelopment Project
the implementing agencies have gained substantial capacity for dealing with safeguard related
issues.

SpecificSafeguardIssues

Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01). About US$3.9 millionwill be allocated for implementing
emergency and priority measures in 47 dam sites. This means an average expenditure for each
dam of about US$ 80,000, showing the limited nature of the interventions to be made. As in
DSP, the major environmental issue is expected to be management and disposal o f excavated
materials. The major work operations identifiedfor their potentialenvironmental impacts are:

    (i) constructionofnewspillwaystoincrease,whereneeded,dischargecapacities;
    (ii) rehabilitationandreconstructionofexistingspillways;
    (iii)slopestabilizationandstrengthening;
    (iv)    rehabilitationo f imgationoutlet; and
    (v)     rehabilitationo f access roads.

The volumes o fwaste to bemanaged and disposed inIDSP I1are expected to be muchless than
inthe previous project, since no works on dambody is foreseen. Only ina case (Kechut dam)
buildingo ftemporary pitwill berequired.Nevertheless, anew Environmental Management Plan
has beenpreparedand disclosed, and all works envisaged under the project shall conform to the
requirements o f such EMP (details providedbelow).




                                                  52

Safety of Dams (OP A37).The primary goal o f the project i s to improve the safety o f dams,
conforming to almost all safety aspectsidentifiedby OP4.37. Provisions for complying with OP
4.37 included in DSP will be continued in IDSP 11. The project will also, through provision o f
safety and telecommunication equipment, support implementation o f Emergency Preparedness
Plans completed under DSP. In addition, through provision o f O&M equipment and
improvement o f the regulatory framework, the project will improve the sustainability o f the dam
system inthe country fro an operational andmanagerial point o f view. Financial sustainability o f
the system remains part of a larger effort o f institutional reform for the Water Supply Agency
(including the establishment o f Water Users Associations) supported under the World Bank's
Irrigation Development Project. Inaddition to evident benefits in terms o f safety for people and
infrastructure, the project will contribute to the reductiono f erosion o f dam sites (included under
rehabilitationcontracts), thereby lengtheningthe life o f the investments and reducingrisks from
erosion-induced failures.

Projects on International Waterways(OP 7.50). Since water from some o f the dams includedin
the project ultimately flows into international river Araks, IDSP I1triggers safeguard policy on
Projects on International Waterways. As with its predecessor, the DSP, an exception to the
notificationrequirements for ripariancountries i s warranted. The exception i s grantedwhen "any
ongoing schemes, projects involving additions or alterations that require rehabilitation,
construction, or other changes that inthejudgment o f the Bank:(i)    will not adversely change the
quality or quantity of water flows to the other riparian; and (ii) not be adversely affected by
                                                                   will
the other riparian's possible water use". Similar to DSP, IDSP 11 fully complies with the
requirements above and hence the official waiver obtained by DSP from the requirement o f
communications to riparianstateshasbeen considered extendedto IDSP 11.

Mitigation Plans

Based on the assessment o f project activities, key mitigation measures recommended under
Environmental Management Plan(EMP) are listedbelow per type o fwork:

a)     Spillway
0      Construction, where possible, o f tunnel waterways in place o f open trenches which are
       more exposed to hillstone and landslides and garbagedumping andwhich change/damage
       the landscape;
0      Widening, where possible, existingspillways to increasecapacity andavoid construction
       ofnew ones;
0      Obtain permits from the Ministry of Nature Protection (MNP) and as needed from the
       1ocaVregionalauthorities for disposal ofexcavated materials andconstruction wastes;
0      Obtain permit from the MNP and concerned Local/ Regional Authorities for opening
       and/or useo f quarries.
0      Transport and disposal o f construction concrete rubbles, debris and spoils in approved
       paths and landfills/dump sites;
0      Restoration to quasi-original conditions of landscape after completion o f construction and
       rehabilitation works.




                                                   53

b)    Slope, outlet
0     Reuse o f suitable excavated and dredged materials (e.g. from spillway operations) for
      slope protection and strengthening works, limitingthe need for old andnew quarries;
0     Use, where possible, existing quarries for requiredadditional materials;

0     Obtain permits from the Ministry of Nature Protection and as needed from the
      localh-egional authorities for the opening andor use o fquarries;
0     Obtain permits from the Ministry o f Nature Protection and as needed from the
      1ocaVregionalauthorities for disposal of excavatedmaterials and constructionwastes;
0     Restoration to quasi-original conditions o f landscape after completion of construction and
      rehabilitationworks and after use o f quarries.

c)    Access roads
0     Rehabilitationo fexisting access roads avoidingconstruction o fnew ones;
Restoration to quasi-original conditions o f landscape after completion of construction and
rehabilitation.

InstitutionalArrangements

In addition to proposed mitigation measures, for each potential impact Environmental
Management Plan identifies the parties or agencies charged with implementingthose measures.
Those are grouped inthree groups: (i)   executing agencies, responsible for executing the measure;
(ii)
   supervising agencies, responsible for supervisingthe executing agencies to ensure that they
execute the mitigation measures as planned; and (iii)monitoring agencies, in charge o f
monitoringthe extent of implementation and the effectiveness o f the mitigation measures and o f
adjustingthe programifneeded.




                                                54

                         Annex 11: ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                  ARMENIA: IRRIGATIONDAMSAFETY I1PROJECT


                                                  Planned                Actual
PCNreview                                        3/29/2004              3/29/2004
Initial PID to PIC                                4/5/2004              4/6/2004
InitialISDS to PIC                                4/5/2004              4/9/2004
Appraisal                                         5/4/2004              5/4/2004
Negotiations                                     5/10/2004              511Of2004
BoardRVP approval                                6/10/2004
Planned date o f effectiveness                   9/30/2004
Planned date o fmid-tennreview                   9/30/2006
Plannedclosing date                              31'3 1/2009

Keyinstitutionsresponsible for preparation o fthe project:
Water Sector development andInstitutionalImprovements Projects Implementation Unitunder
the State Committee for Water Management.


Bankstaffandconsultants who workedonthe projectincluded:

Name                                          Title                     Unit
GiuseppeFantozzi                Task Team Leader                       ECSSD
UsaidEl-Hanbali                 Senior Water ResourcesEng.             ECSSD
Arusyak Alaverdyan              Consultant, Agricultural               ECSSD
                                Economist
GayaneMinasyan                  Operations Offcer-                     ECSSD
                                Environmentalissues
Sharifa Kalala                  Program Assistant                      ECSSD




Bankfunds expendedto dateonproject preparation:
1. Bankresources: US$ 11,000
2. Trust funds: 0
3. Total: US$ 11,000

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
1. Remainingcosts to approval: US$4,000
Estimated annual supervision cost: US$ 50,000




                                               55

                        Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
               ARMENIA: IRRIGATIONDAMSAFETYI1PROJECT



A.   BankDocuments


  1. Memo from DonnaDowsett-Coirolo, Country Director from March30,2004 - minutes
     ofvideo-conferencing decisionmeeting *
  2. Project InformationDocument*
  3. Integrated SafeguardsData Sheet*


B.   Other RelatedDocuments

  1. ProjectProcurementplan*
  2. D X Safety Project -PAD*
           ~
  3. Jacobs GIBBReport on "Technical Investigation o f 60 Dams"
  4. Environmental Management Plan*
  5. PIUAudit Reports




  * Electroniccopies are available.




                                         56

                                         Annex 13: Statementof LoansandCredits
                               ARMENIA: IRRIGATIONDAMSAFETY I1PROJECT


                                                                                                                          Differencebetween
                                                                                                                          expectedand actual
                                                                Original Amount inUS$ Millions                               disbursements

 Project ID    FY   Purpose                                 IBRD         IDA      SF        GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.    Orig.     Frm. Rev'd
~


 P074503      2004  EDUC QUAL & RELEVANCE(APL#I) 0.00                     19.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      19.41      0.00        0.00

 PO57847      2002  NAT RES MGMT                               0.00       8.30     0.00      0.00     0.00       9.43      0.28        0.00

 PO55022      2002  IRRIGDEVT                                  0.00      24.86     0.00      0.00     0.00      21.81      5.74        0.00

 PO44852      2002  ENT INCUBATOR LIL                          0.00       5.00     0.00      0.00     0.00       4.66      3.39        0.00

 PO76543      2002  FIEF LIL                                   0.00       1.00     0.00      0.00     0.00       0.80      0.25        0.00

 PO69917      2002  NAT RES MGT (GEF)                          0.00       0.00     0.00      5.12     0.00       5.83      0.20        0.00

 PO57838      2001  JUDICIAL REFORM                            0.00       11.40    0.00      0.00     0.00       9.24      -3.19       0.00

 PO57952      2000  SIF 2                                      0.00      20.00     0.00      0.00     0.00       9.70     -13.02       0.00

 PO44829      2000  TRANSPORT                                  0.00      40.00     0.00      0.00     0.00       9.88     -31.27       0.00

 PO64879      1999  IRRIGDAM SAFETY                            0.00      26.60     0.00      0.00     0.00      11.21       6.96       0.00

 PO57560       1999 TITLE REG                                  0.00       8.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.33       0.32       0.00

 PO08276       1999 ELEC TRANSM & DISTR                        0.00       21.00    0.00      0.00      0.00     14.75      14.12       8.23

 PO35805       1998 MUNDEVT                                    0.00       30.00    0.00      0.00      0.00      6.31       5.50       0.00

 PO35806       1998 AGR REF SUPPORT                            0.00       14.50    0.00      0.00      0.00      0.55       0.65       0.61

                                                     Total:    0.00     229.66     0.00      5.12      0.00    123.91    - 10.07       8.84




                                                               ARMENIA
                                                       STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                    HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                       InMillions ofUS Dollars


                                                                Committed                                   Disbursed
                                                               IFC                                         IFC

         FY Approval   Company                     Loan      Equity       Quasi     Partic.   Loan        Equity      Quasi     Partic.

          2002         ACBA Leasing                2.00         0.27        0.00      0.00       0.00       0.27       0.00        0.00

          2000/04      Hotel Armenia               0.00         0.00         1.25     0.00       0.00       0.00       1.25        0.00

                                  Total portfolio:  2.00        0.27         1.25     0.00       0.00       0.27       1.25        0.00




                                                                               Approvals PendingCommitment

                        FY Approval    Company                            Loan       Equity       Quasi        Partic.

                        2002           Armenia SME Fund               0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00

                                             Totalpendingcommitment:       0.00       0.00         0.00         0.00




                                                                     57

                                                 Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                            ARMENIA: IRRIGATIONDAMSAFETY I1PROJECT
                                                              Europe &  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Central middle-
                                                     Armenia     Asia  income      Development diamond'
2002
Population. mid-year(millions)                            3.1      476    2,411                 Lifeexpectancy
GNIpercapita (Atlas method, US$)                         790      2.160   1390
GNI(Atlas method, US$ billions)                           2.4     1030    3,352

Average annual growth, 1996-02

Population (%j                                            -11       0.1      10
Laborforce (%)                                             11       0.4      12    GNI                                 Gross
                                                                                   per                                 primary
M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                           capita                           enrollment
Poverty(% ofpopulation belownationalpovefiyline)          48
Urbanpopulation (%of totalpopulation)                     67        63       49
Lifeexpectancyat birth (pars)                             75        69       69
Infant mortality(per 1OOOlivebirths)                      34        25       30
Childmalnutrition (Omofchildrenunder5)                      3                 11          Access to improvedwatersource
Access to an improvedwatersource(%ofpopulation)                      91      81
liliteracy(%ofpopulationage x5+)                             1       3       Q
Gross primaryenroiiment (%of school-age population)       99        D2       111  ,  -Armenia
   Male                                                   99        D3       in   l  -       Lower-middle-incomegroup
   Female                                                 99        Dl       1D

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS

                                                1982    1992      2001   2002
                                                                                    Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                         11       2.1     2A
Gross domestic investmenUGDP                              16       8.6      B.8                      Trade
Exportsof goods and ServiceslGDP                    ..   39.8      25.6    292
Gross domestic savingslGDP                          ..  -73.8      -17      3 2
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                                           9.5                                 T
                                                                            y12

Currentaccount balancelGDP                                         -9.5    -6.8
InterestpapentslGDP                                                 0.8      10
Total debt/GDP                                                     46.7    48.5
Total debtservicelexports                                           7.4     9.o
Present valueof debUGDP                                            30.9
Present valueof debUexports                                        88.8                            Indebtedness
                                    1982.92 1992-02     2001     2002 2002.08
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                 -----Armenia
GDP                                        ..     5.4     9.6      P.9      6.3
GDP percapita                              ..     6.8    D.4       Q.5     -0.7               Lower-middle-incomegroup
                                                                                         ~




STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                1982    1992      2001   2002      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(%of GDP)
Agriculture                                         ..   310       27.7    25.9
Industry                                            ..   39.4      34.2    332
  Manufacturing                                     ..   33.1      22.4     216
Services                                            ..   29.6      38.1    40.9

Privateconsumption                                  ..   D l 3     910     86.3
Generalgovernment consumption                       ..   8.5       10.7     D.5
imports of goods and services                       ..   613       45.9    45.8              -GDI            -GDP


                                             1982.92 1992-02      2o01   2o02      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(averageannualgrowth)
Agriculture                                         ..    2.7       116     4.4    30
Industry                                            ..    4.2       6.8    242     2o
  Manufacturing                                     ..    3.7       3.8     y12
Services                                            ..    4.4       9.3     9.7    lo

Private consumption                                 ..    3.3      15.2     -7.9    O
                                                                                                                           -
Generalgovernment consumption                       ..   -0.3       3.3     8.6   -10
Gross domestic investment                           ..    7.7      24.8     17.7           -Exports
Imports of goods and services                       ..   -2.9       2.1     8.2                             -Inports
                                                                                1c




                                                                     58

                                                                                                          Armenia

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                                                                                                     I
                                          1982  1992   2001   2002       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(W change)                                                              25 T
Consumer prices                                 728.7    3.1      11     20

Implicit GDP deflator                           568.8    4.0     2.3     15

                                                                         10
Government finance                                                        5
(%ofGDP, includes current grants)                                         0
Current revenue                                   4.0   6.3     6.7   1-5
Current budget balance                           -7.7    0.3     0.5    I        -GDPdeflator         -CpI           I
Overallsurplus/deficit                           -7.7   -4.3    -2.6


TRADE
                                          1982  1992   2001   2002    I Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ mi/lions)
Totalexports (fob)                               220    342     507           T
                                                                        ~

                                                                         1,250
  Gold,jewelry,andotherprecious stones                   a 3    259
  Machinely and mechanical equipment                     28       21     1,000

  Manufactures                                           89             , 750
Total imports (cif)                              334    877      991    ' 500
  Food                                                   211    200
  Fueland energy                                  60     8 7
  Capital goods                                          62             1
Exportprice index(SS5=00)                                                                                         "`I
                                                                               96   97   08     B W        01

Importprice index(S95=WO)                                               i        BEXpOfiS        EiWOfiS
Terms of trade (S95=WO)


BALANCE o f PAYMENTS
                                          1982  1992   zoo1   2002        Current account balance t o GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                    230    540     700
Imports of goods and services                    364    978     ill7
Resource balance                                 -135   -438    -4l7

Net income                                        -39    64      88
Net current transfers                                    174     6 9

Current account balance                                 -201    -60

Financingitems (net)                                     217    234
Changes innet reserves                                   -6      -73      25
Memo:
 Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)                  334     360
Conversion rate (DEC,locaVUS$)                    0.3   555.1  573.4


 EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1982  1992   2001   2002
 (US$ millions)                                                            :omposition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.
 Total debtoutstandingand disbursed                      989    IM9
  IBRD                                                     7       8                       G: 14
  IDA                                                    428     530                  F:32        A:8

 Total debtservice                                        55      74
  18RD                                                      1      1
  IDA                                                      3       4

 Composition of net resourceflows
  Official grants                                         42       0
  Official creditors                                      59      63
  Privatecreditors                                         0      -4
  Foreign direct investment                               70       0
  Portfolio equity                                         0       0                c 185
 World Bank program
  Commitments                                             75       9       t IBRD
                                                                             -                            E- Bilaterd
  Disbursements                                           55      66       3-IDA    D-Othermltilateral    F-Rime
  Ptincipal repayments                                     0       0       :-IMF                          G- Short-tw




                                                           59


