Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB818 
Project Name 
IRRIGATION DAM SAFETY 2 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Irrigation and drainage (78%);Central government administration 
(22%) 
Project ID 
P088499 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF ARMENIA 
Implementing Agency 
State Committee for Water Management  
Vardanants 13A 
375010 Yerevan, Armenia 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [X] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
April 28, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 4, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 10, 2004 
 
 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Physical safety of people living and of the infrastructures located downstream of dam sites is critical to 
any type of development and water security is critical to agricultural development. This statement 
assumes particular relevance in a country like Armenia, highly seismic and where agriculture continues to 
be a dominant sector. Equally critical is increasing the capacity of the local institutional set-up to: (i) 
operate and maintain the system; and (ii) to implement Emergency Preparedness Plans in case of disaster. 
This project aims at increasing the sustainability of the dam system in Armenia while significantly 
decreasing its risk profile. It builds up on the experience made under the previous Bank financed project, 
the Dam Safety Project, that is still ongoing.  The proposed project, together with DSP, will support the 
task of implementing rehabilitation of dam sites, preparation and implementation of Dam Safety Plans 
including Emergency Preparedness Plans, provision of control measurement equipment and of a minimal 
amount of O&M and telecommunication equipment. As a result, the previous and the current project will 
affect all dams in Armenia except for eleven irrigation dams for which no action is required, and for two 
energy dams under long-term management contract with a Russian company, Operation Power Network, 
that took full responsibility for their O&M and safety.  
 
 
2. Proposed 
objective 
 
The development objective of the ongoing Dam Safety Project, which is “to protect the population and 
the socio-economic infrastructure down-stream of dams facing the highest risk of failure” is also the PDO 
for this repeater project but on a larger number of dams. The project will also contribute to enhance the 
sustainability of economic activities which are dependent on reliable supply of water. Proceeds of the 
project will be used exclusively to assist in financing interventions aimed at significantly lowering the 
safety risk of those dams. These interventions are deemed necessary on the basis of the findings of 
Page  2
 
 
detailed technical investigations undertaken under DSP, which called for urgent action to prevent many of 
the  investigated dams from entering into an emergency state in the near future. 
 
 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed Project aims at: 
• 
rehabilitating 47 dam sites; 
• 
providing control measurement devices at 47 dam sites; 
• 
preparing the Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP) for the Yerevan Lake dam; 
• 
providing minimal requirement of O&M equipment for 55 dam sites; 
• 
providing the minimal needed safety equipment for implementing EPPs at 56 dam sites; 
• 
improving the access to 16 dam sites; 
• 
providing training on dam safety issues to 150 operators of 60 dam sites; 
• 
providing training and support to the Water Supply Agency on the following aspects: (i) 
dam regulatory issues; (ii) emergency telecommunication network; (iii) implementation 
of Operation and Maintenance plans.
 
 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) 
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37) 
Projects on International Waters (OP 7.50) 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0.75 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
6.75 
 Total 
7.50 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Giuseppe Fantozzi 
Title: Senior Operations Officer 
Tel: (202) 473-3789 
Fax: (202) 614-0762 
Email: Gfantozzi@worldbank.org
 
