                                Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                Report No: ICR00001428



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-39220)



                                     ON A

                                 CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR4.7 MILLION
                     (US$6.75 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                 TO THE

                         REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA

                                 FOR THE

                  IRRIGATION DAM SAFETY II PROJECT



                               May 24, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective February 1, 2010)

                      Currency Unit = Armenian Dram
                          100.00 AMD = US$0.27
                         US$1.00 = 376.69 AMD


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AMD       Armenian Dram
ARS       Armenian Rescue Service
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
DME       Dam Maintenance Enterprise
DSP       Dam Safety Project
EMA       Emergency Management Agency
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
EPP       Emergency Preparedness Plan
EWS       Early Warning System
FM        Financial Management
FMR       Financial Management Report
FSU       Former Soviet Union
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GOA       Government of Armenia
ha        Hectare
HPS       Hydro Power Stations
I&D       Irrigation and Drainage
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA       International Development Association
IDP       Irrigation Development Project
IDSP II   Irrigation Dam Safety II Project
IOIs      Intermediate Outcome Indicators
IP        Instrumentation Plan
IREP      Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency Project
IRP       Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
ISR       Implementation Status Report
KW        Kilowatt
KWh       Kilowatt hour
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
m         meter
m3        Cubic meter
m3/s      Cubic meter per second
Mm3       Million cubic meters
MOES      Ministry of Emergency Situations
MOTA      Ministry of Territorial Administration
MTEF      Mid-Term Expenditures Framework
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NPV       Net Present Value
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PAR       Population At Risk
PDO       Project Development Objective
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PMB       Project Management Board
POI       Project Outcome Indicator
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RRP       Risk Reduction Profile
QER       Quality at Entry Review
SCWM      State Committee for Water Management
SOE       Statement of Expenses
SP        Safety Plan
TA        Technical Assistance
TORs      Terms of Reference
WSA       Water Supply Agency
WSDP      Water Sector Development Project
WUAs      Water Users Associations
WUFs      Federation of Water Users Associations
XDR/SDR   Special Drawing Rights




                      Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
                    Country Director: Asad Alam
                      Sector Director: Peter D. Thomson
                     Sector Manager: Dina Umali Deininger
                 Project Team Leader: Giuseppe Fantozzi
                    ICR Team Leader: Giuseppe Fantozzi
                                                ARMENIA
                                      Irrigation Dam Safety 2 Project




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 7
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 17
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 18
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 19
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 20
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 23
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 27
  Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 28
  Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 41
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Irrigation Dam Safety 2
Country:                Armenia                 Project Name:
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P088499                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-39220
ICR Date:               06/15/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          ARMENIA
Original Total
                        XDR 4.7M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 4.7M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 4.7M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 State Committee for Water Management
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/29/2004     Effectiveness:             12/08/2004        12/08/2004
Appraisal:            05/04/2004     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/10/2004     Mid-term Review:           06/16/2008        07/01/2008
                                     Closing:                   03/31/2009        12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings           Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory        Government:        Satisfactory
                                            Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory                    Highly Satisfactory
                                            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      28                   28
Irrigation and drainage                                                53                   53
Roads and highways                                                     4                      4
Telecommunications                                                     15                   15


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Natural disaster management                                            40                   40
Rural services and infrastructure                                      20                   20
Water resource management                                              40                   40

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou                Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Asad Alam                             D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:            Dina Umali-Deininger                  Joseph R. Goldberg
Project Team Leader:       Giuseppe Fantozzi                     Giuseppe Fantozzi
ICR Team Leader:           Giuseppe Fantozzi
ICR Primary Author:        Juan Bautista Morelli


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective (PDO) is to protect the people and the socio-economic
infrastructure down-stream of dams facing high risk of failure. The project aimed at
upgrading the safety of 47 dams in need of rehabilitation and at putting in place the
needed conditions (safety monitoring, O&M, emergency preparedness) that could not be



                                                   ii
financed under the ongoing Dam Safety Project (DSP), complementing the task initiated
under DSP.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDO was not revised or changed.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval          Target         Completion or
                                              documents)         Values         Target Years
                Achievement of the Target Risk Reduction Profile (TRRP is a complex indicator
Indicator 1 :   that takes into account implementation of structural and non-structural works
                and measures). Utopist target of 0% would mean complete absence of risk.
Value
quantitative or 3.09%                     1.87%                             1.87%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/31/2004                  12/08/2004                        12/31/2009
                With completion of rehabilitation works on 44 dams the TRRP index reached the
Comments
                target level of 1.87% (100% achievement) set at the Project Appraisal Document
(incl. %
                (PAD). One dam was left to MCC to be rehabilitated, and two other dams had no
achievement)
                safety problem.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                            Formally
                                           Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value                            Revised
                                              approval                        Completion or
                                                          Target Values
                                            documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of dams rehabilitated.
Value
(quantitative   0                           47                               44
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/31/2004                    12/08/2004                       12/31/2009
                Rehabilitation of 44 dams have been completed - 94% of target achievement. In
Comments
                Kaps dam only partial rehabilitation was done and was handed over to
(incl. %
                Millennium Challenge Corporation for further rehabilitation. Other two dams did
achievement)
                not have safety issues.
Indicator 2 : Number of people protected downstream.
Value
(quantitative   0                           120,000                          119,200
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/31/2004                    12/08/2004                       12/31/2009
                More than 99% of a target population of 120,000 people that was considered at
Comments
                risk is now significantly less exposed since works and Emergency Preparedness
(incl. %
                Plans (EPPs) on the dams to alleviate safety concerns have been effectively
achievement)
                executed.



                                              iii
Indicator 3 :     Percentage of socio-economic infrastructure protected downstream.
Value
(quantitative     0%                         100%                            99%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/31/2004                 12/08/2004                        12/31/2009
Comments          Since rehabilitation works on the dams have been effectively executed in all
(incl. %          those that were necessary but one, we can state that 99% of the socio-economic
achievement)      infrastructure downstream of dams is protected (Kaps dam was left to MCC).
                  Number of dams for which the following is provided: a) monitoring equipment;
Indicator 4 :
                  b) safety equipment; and c) O&M equipment.
Value
(quantitative   0                           a) 47 b) 56 c) 55                 a) 47 b) 56 c) 34
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/31/2004                    12/08/2004                        12/31/2009
                Two of three targets have been successfully reached (100%). The O&M
Comments
                equipment was provided to 34 dams instead of 55 (62% of the target) due to
(incl. %
                significant cost increases of equipment and underestimation of costs at project
achievement)
                design.
Indicator 5 : Number of dams for which access roads have been improved.
Value
(quantitative   0                           16                                16
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/31/2004                    12/08/2004                        12/31/2009
Comments        Sixteen access roads included under the project have been rehabilitated # 100 %
(incl. %        target achievement. Fifteen of these roads were rehabilitated under the project
achievement) and one was rehabilitated with the community financial participation.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     06/28/2004            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/21/2004            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     04/02/2005            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.38
  4     10/24/2005            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.63
  5     11/09/2006            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.15
  6     03/01/2007            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.49
  7     03/17/2008            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      4.16
  8     02/03/2009            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      4.95
  9     12/02/2009            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      6.78


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                iv
I. Disbursement Profile




                          v
                  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
        The early 1990s in Armenia were marked by post-independence fiscal crises,
hyperinflation, and the consequences of an armed conflict with Azerbaijan. During the
late 1990s and in the early 2000s the Government of Armenia (GOA) was carrying out a
successful stabilization program and structural reforms that resulted in rapid economic
recovery with macroeconomic stability and low inflation. Agriculture continued to be the
dominant sector in the economy providing varying levels of employment to about half of
the households, and contributing about 30 percent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP).
Given its heavy reliance on irrigation, most of the important issues facing the agricultural
sector were, and continue to be, water related. In this context, the Bank's main country
assistance goal in the agricultural sector was to help create the enabling conditions to
stimulate effective development in the sector through the rehabilitation of critical
infrastructure and the promotion of pro-active participation by all stakeholders in the
management and preservation of the productive potential of that infrastructure.
        The on-going International Development Association (IDA) supported Dam
Safety Project (DSP) investment was timely designed during the late 1990s when the
country's dam system was disintegrating under the weight of the management chaos and
physical neglect following the collapse of the Former Soviet Union (FSU). Recognizing
the potential catastrophic consequences of dam failure, the GOA and the Bank agreed in
1999 to give priority to addressing urgent dam safety issues by proceeding with the
rehabilitation of most deteriorated dams as a separate DSP. Resource constraints led to
limiting the scope of this project to the 20 most endangered irrigation dams out of a total
of 87 dams (77 for irrigation, three for irrigation/drinking, six for energy and one for
recreational purposes) known at that time to pose the most severe safety risk.
Additionally, recognizing the safety concerns associated with the other dams, provision
were made under the DSP for: (i) technical investigations and for monitoring the safety
status of the remaining dams; and (ii) creating an emergency repair fund to be used in
case of unforeseen and urgent rehabilitation interventions were required.
        More than one year before the DSP original closing date, implementation was
proceeding at more than a satisfactory pace with all planned interventions proceeding on
schedule, or ahead of schedule1. The impact of the completed dam safety works and of
the dam safety plans (SPs) was already significant in terms of risk reduction and
enhancing sustainability. Progress was also being made in strengthening the institutional
basis for managing the dams and ensuring their safety. A Water Code and a Law on
Water Users Associations (WUAs) had been enacted and regulations were being adopted
to support the implementation of the new legal framework. A Water Supply Agency
(WSA) was created, that unified the previous existing five agencies dealing with

1
  At the mid-term review (MTR) of the on-going DSP, rehabilitation works have been completed on 18 dams out of the
planned 20 dams as well as on two additional dams originally not included under the project. In addition, the
preparation of Dam Safety Plans (SPs), each made of an Operations & Maintenance Plan, an Instrumentation Plan (IP)
and, wherever needed, an Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP) have been completed not only for the original targeted
20 dams but also for additional 33.



                                                        1
irrigation and drainage (I&D) in the country. The WSA was given the responsibility,
among the others, for the Operation and Management (O&M) of dams. The new legal
framework foresaw that the O&M of small dams would ultimately be transferred to the
WUAs being organized and supported under the on-going IDA financed Irrigation
Development Project (IDP) to create an operational basis for effective participation by
water users in the management of the country-wide irrigation systems.
        At that time, based on the recent review of the procurement activities being
implemented by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), it was clear that all interventions
planned under the DSP would be completed at a cost below the available Credit funds.
Savings were due to significant unit cost reductions and, on the basis of detailed technical
investigations, to reductions of the scope of work on some of the dams. Savings in the
order of about US$9.5 million were to be available by the project completion date,
allowing the DSP for the rehabilitation of not only the originally planned 20 dams, but
also seven other dams posing immediate safety concerns (including two that had been
rehabilitated under the DSP Emergency Repair Fund subcomponent). In spite of that,
there were 47 dams, out of the existing 87 that still were in need of various degrees of
rehabilitation and/or repair to bring their safety status to an acceptable level by
international standards2. Hence, interventions under a repeater project were deemed
necessary on the basis of the findings of the technical investigations undertaken under the
DSP, which called for an urgent action to prevent the other dams from entering into an
emergency state in the near future. Technical assistance provided under the DSP capacity
building activity rendered a valuable experience to the PIU and the WSA staff which
would enable them to implement effectively the proposed Irrigation Dam Safety II
Project (IDSP II).
        The IDSP II objective was linked with two of the five priority areas of action
indicated by the recent Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) namely: (i) improving
infrastructure; and (ii) improving core public sector functions. It would also contribute to
the objectives of the 2001 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in terms of: (i) improving
governance and public services; and (ii) creating jobs through private sector
development. It was also linked with a third CAS objective, namely rebuilding of human
capital. IDSP II's support to achievement of such objectives would be triggered by
enhancing the pace of regional development through creation of secure conditions for
investment and economic activities downstream the irrigation dams.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
        The PDO of IDSP II was to protect the people and the socio-economic
infrastructure downstream of dams facing high risk of failure. It aimed at upgrading the
safety of 47 additional dams in need of rehabilitation and at completing the necessary
conditions (safety monitoring, O&M, emergency preparedness) that could not be totally
financed under the ongoing DSP. Progress towards the PDO was measured in terms of:
(i) the number of people protected downstream of each upgraded dam, and (ii)

2
  The final number of dams rehabilitated under DSP would be 27. Considering that 11 dams did not require any safety
intervention and that two hydro-power dams were under management of a Russian company (Operation Power
Network) which is also in charge for their safety and declined participation under the DSP, 47 of the 87 dams were still
needing some rehabilitation.


                                                           2
achievement of the target Risk Reduction Profile (RRP): progressive reduction of the
overall risk posed by the whole portfolio of the 47 dams to an acceptable level by
international standards, for a potentially affected population close to 120,000 people
along with the associated socio-economic infrastructure.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
       The original PDO and key indicators were not changed.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
        The IDSP II aimed at addressing severe safety risks for a population of close to
120,000 people living downstream of the 47 dams under the severe risk of failure. The
primary direct benefit from project intervention will be the reduction in the risk of dam
failure ­ considered to be very high by international standards - that would affect
downstream life, property, and economic operations that depended on the water storage
in the dams. In addition, the project would contribute to strengthen the institutional
capability for O&M of the irrigation infrastructure. It would also have secondary benefits
which were important to the economy by helping secure the dams' productive function in
improving the reliability of water supply for over 64,350 hectares (ha) of irrigated
agriculture (almost 50 percent of the irrigated area in Armenia), for fisheries, and for
domestic water supply.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
        With a total cost of US$7.5 million (IDA credit financing US$6.75 million) the
project was designed following the same original three components of the previous DSP:
       Rehabilitation of Dams (US$3.9 million) to be provided for: (i) engineering
design of rehabilitation activities on 29 dams (18 designs were already prepared under
DSP) and preparation of an Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP) for the Yerevan Lake
Dam, (ii) implementation of rehabilitation works on 47 dams; (iii) construction
supervision of the rehabilitation of 47 dams; and (iv) installation of monitoring
equipment on all 47 dams.
        Dam Safety Sustainability (US$3.18 million) to be provided for: (i) installation
of safety equipment (telecommunication equipment, sirens, searchlights, loud speakers)
at 56 dams (including four rehabilitated under DSP and five not to be rehabilitated); (ii)
provision of technical assistance and equipment to WSA mostly aimed at improving
O&M of dams, for: (a) design of an integrated telecommunication network for all dams,
(b) preparation of the necessary regulations and operational procedures to guide all
parties involved in management of dams, (c) arrange for annual independent audits of
WSA operations and accounts, (d) retain the services of an independent dam safety expert
for the duration of the project, (e) provide training in O&M practices for operational staff
involved at dam sites, and (f) maintain the basic amount of equipment to allow proper
O&M at 55 dams (including 43 dams rehabilitated under this project, two rehabilitated
under DSP and 10 dams that would not be rehabilitated); and (iii) improvement of access
roads for 16 dams, to enable timely access and implementation of safety measures.




                                             3
        Project Management (US$0.42 million) would provide for: (i) technical
assistance for PIU to co-ordinate all project interventions, and to provide the support
services necessary for timely and effective project implementation (procurement of goods
and services, financial control, M&E, preparation of annual work plans, and reporting);
and (ii) PIU incremental operational cost, including periodic auditing of PIU activities.

1.6 Revised Components
         Components were not modified during the IDSP II implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes
         No significant change was introduced or considered.

                  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
        The project was conceived as a four-year program for improving the safety of 47
dams, and for establishing an effective system for monitoring their safety and ensuring
the necessary O&M. The design was adequately based on an optimized implementation
program composed of a mix of both structural (rehabilitation works) and non-structural
(soft activities) elements. Works require relatively long construction times and
represented the greatest part of the project cost. Non-structural dam safety activities
included: safety monitoring, O&M, and emergency preparedness; and play a fundamental
role in assuring sustainability of the rehabilitation works. Considering the balanced
combination of both types of measures, the dam safety program was well conceived. The
on-going experience under DSP highlighted the need for paying particular attention to
certain non-structural aspects as training of staff in O&M practices, improvement of the
regulatory framework and provision of needed equipment to allow proper implementation
of the EPPs. These lessons have been fully reflected in the design of the IDSP II.

2.2 Implementation
        The project was declared effective two days before the expected effectiveness
date, on December 8, 2004, and the launch mission was carried out in January-February
2005. Building upon the success achieved under the DSP, and the straight forward and
relatively simple repeater nature of the IDSP II, the project has been implemented largely
in a satisfactory fashion, especially as related to works under component 1. Some delays
occurred in the rehabilitation of four energy dams because the Consortium of Consultants
in charge of preparation of the designs refused to implement these designs, which led to
the cancellation of his contract and the elimination of the Consortium from the PIU
shortlist of eligible contractors3.



3
  Investigations and preliminary designs for the four energy dams were made by an international consulting team of the
British company Jacobs GIB hired under the DSP. Consortium of Consultants hired under IDSPII for preparing the
final designs, considered that topography and geology are not fully investigated and requested increase of the contract
cost for additional investigations. However, the opinion of the Bank dam specialist was that work carried out by Jacobs


                                                          4
         Progress under component 2 also showed some delays mainly due to the fact that
the WSA was undergoing structural changes, and because the agreement for the technical
specifications for the communications equipment to be procured for the Emergency
Management Agency (EMA), the main user of the equipment, took more time of
discussions with the EMA4 than necessary (from January 2007 to July 2008). As a result,
little time was left for the procurement process for the equipment and for the training
program to be delivered for its operators. Since the procurement process required two
different but inter-linked tenders: consultancy for developing and submitting the
drawings and technical specifications to the PIU, based on which a new International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) tender followed for the procurement and installation of about
150 sirens in 75 residential areas. These delays led to the GOA's request for extending
the project closing date for nine months, to December 31, 2009.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation, Design, Implementation and Utilization
         The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) unit was already in place and periodically
reporting DSP, IDP and other Bank financed projects' inputs, outputs, and impact.
Quarterly progress reports included information, analysis, and recommendations on: (i)
progress in the execution of various elements of the agreed work programs, (ii)
institutional development; (iii) procurement; (iv) expenditures; (v) difficulties
encountered in the course of project implementation, proposed solutions or required
assistance; (vi) updated projects cost estimates, procurement plans, and implementation
schedules; and (vi) updated estimates of performance indicators. Annual work plans and
the associated budgets were prepared and agreed with IDA at the beginning of each
projects' year. A project implementation completion report was also prepared at project
closing as agreed in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD).
        Day to day supervision was carried out by local consulting companies. The PIU
engineers oversaw the work of the supervision companies and were involved actively in
the supervision of the rehabilitation works and reported frequently to the PIU
management. Also, as planned, an experienced international dam safety consultant was
hired to work with the PIU supervision engineers and undertook, twice a year, an
independent review of the scope and the quality of the dam safety program, and on that
basis advised the PIU and WSA on necessary improvements.
        M&E of the IDSP II, as had been also the case of the DSP, was based mainly on
an index that reflects the reduced risk to the population living downstream of dams as a
result of the rehabilitation works and the introduction of procedures and safety measures
that could help to improve responsiveness to emergencies arising from dam failure. This
index was updated periodically condensing progress of the project in attaining its PDO.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance


GIB was good enough and final designs could be made based on it. So, the PIU re-announced a tender and another
Consulting Company was selected and prepared the designs.

4
  The Emergency Management Agency was renamed as Armenian Rescue Service (ARS) and moved into the structure
of the Ministry of Emergency Situations (MOES) created in April 2008.



                                                      5
        Three Safeguard Policies were triggered under the project: Environmental
Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01), Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37), and Projects on
International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50). Regarding the first policy, the Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) was prepared and disclosed. The major environmental issue
related to the project was the management and disposal of excavated material. However,
the activities which were implemented under the IDSP II were small and less complex
than the first DSP. The volumes of waste disposed were much less than in the previous
project since little work was done on dam bodies. In the course of project
implementation, project supervision made sure that all works implemented under the
project fulfilled the requirement of the EMP. PIU environmental specialist regularly
supervised implementation of the project works and followed up with the project
consultant to make sure of the compliance with the EMP requirements.
        Regarding Safety of Dams, since this was the primary goal of the project it
conformed to almost all safety aspects identified by OP4.37. In addition to implementing
some structural measures to improve safety of the dams, the project provided safety and
telecommunication equipment, and supported implementation of EPPs completed under
DSP. Also, through the provision of O&M equipment and improvement of the regulatory
framework for dam management and operation, the project improved the sustainability of
dam system in the country from an operational and managerial point of view. In addition
to evident benefits in terms of safety for people and infrastructure, the project contributed
to the reduction of dam sites erosion (included under rehabilitation works), thereby
strengthening the life of the investment and reducing risk from erosion-induced failures.
        With respect to International Waterways safeguard policy, since water from some
dams included in the project flow into the international river Araks, IDSP II triggered it.
However, an exception to the notification requirement for riparian countries was
warranted based on the fact that "when ongoing schemes, projects involving additions on
alterations that require rehabilitation, construction, or other changes that in the judgment
of the Bank: (i) will not adversely change the quality or quantity of the water flows to
other riparian; and (ii) will not adversely affected other riparian's possible water use."
       PIU financial management and procurement capability and practices were
reviewed by the Bank at the time of appraisal and throughout implementation and found
acceptable. It has maintained acceptable financial management arrangements meeting the
Bank requirements in respect to the quality of accounting, reporting, internal controls, as
well as in respect to the audit arrangements. Additionally the PIU was updating
procurement plans which were assessed by the Bank procurement specialists and also
found to be acceptable. During project implementation, there were no major issues or
problems in conducting financial management and procurement by the PIU.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
        Adequate and regular maintenance of the rehabilitated dams is critical for the
sustainability of project benefits. Such maintenance requires sufficient institutional
capacity and financial resources. Although, the capacity of the dam management agency
has been strengthened, its performance in carrying out its job depends on allocations from
the state budget and on the revenues they generate from selling water to the users.



                                             6
Although the GOA is committed to support that, budget constraints may affect provision
of adequate funding to the dams O&M needs in certain years.
        Although a follow up operation is not envisaged at this stage mainly because of
the two dam safety projects having adequately addressed the main concerned issues in the
country, it is clear that there is a need to continue to optimize the operation and use of
water stored behind the dams especially for those who are built as a cascade on rivers.
Improved water management and implementation of a computerized water management
and decision support system is needed to develop the existing underutilized potential of
the water resources in Armenia. This might result in the revision of role of some of the
existing dams, improvement of the water conveyance for irrigation purposes, or even the
building of new dams.

                               3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
         The primary objective of the project aimed at addressing severe safety risks for a
population of close to 120,000 people living downstream of 47 dams under risk of failure.
Achieving this objective would also enhance the sustainability of dam-based economic
activities in Armenia, particularly by reducing potential floods and loss of agricultural
production on about 64,350 ha and the possible destruction of 1,090 private houses.
Various other public and private assets like roads, public utilities, other infrastructure and
industrial enterprises were also at risk of dam failure. The project would help secure the
dams' productive function also by improving the reliability of water supply for over one
third of the irrigated areas in the country, for fisheries, and for domestic water supply to
many villages. In addition, the project aimed to strengthen an institutional capability for
operation and maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation infrastructure, and support the
development of private sector capacity in consulting services and contracting of works.
         The relevance of the project to current country and global priorities and Bank
assistance strategy is confirmed by The Country Partnership Strategy for the Republic of
Armenia for the Period of FY09-FY12 dated June 11, 2009. The document states that "in
irrigation and drainage, the government has begun to reverse the deterioration of the
system and established an improved policy and financial framework. WUAs now cover
all irrigated land. Nevertheless, revenues remain at only 42 percent of cost-recovery
levels and only 70 percent of irrigable land is irrigated. There is a need to complete
priority irrigation works to minimize water losses and strengthen the capacity of less
experienced WUAs and creating unions of WUAs, and this will be increasingly important
if Armenia is to successfully address climate change impacts in the future." It also
indicates that "a number of projects supporting irrigation sector and rural development
(Irrigation, Dam Safety, and Dam Safety II) have recently closed or are closing. These
projects have been instrumental in restoring irrigation systems and establishing principles
of participatory irrigation management through formation of WUAs. A new irrigation
loan in FY10 would enable the Bank to continue rehabilitation of irrigation systems and
facilitate the next institutional step in creating Federations of WUAs."
       IDA support for dam security in Armenia extended from 1999 to 2009,
contributing with US$26.6 million under the DSP and US$6.75 million under the IDSP II


                                              7
which began in 2004. About US$3.77 million of the DSP was diverted to mitigate the
aftermaths of the drought of 2000. IDA's involvement not only rehabilitated
infrastructure and secured peoples' life, but also improved governance and public service
deliveries. In particular, it assisted in the development of EPPs and provided training of
dam management personnel.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
        It is clear that the project achieved practically all its objectives, rehabilitating and
improving the safety of 44 of the planned 47 dams. It has also provided the WSA and the
EMA with technical assistance, training, and equipment to ensure sustainability of dams
operation and management, and with enhanced response capacity for dealing with
emergency cases. Along with the closed DSP completed in September 2009, the dam
safety program in Armenia has been successfully upgraded to international standards.
       About 120,000 people are definitively less exposed mainly due to the works done
on these dams and the prevention measures adopted under the EPP prepared for all sites,
including the monitoring equipment, and the heavy machines provided for O&M
purposes. Safety equipment for 56 dams was installed under the IDSP II. More than
64,350 ha of land (almost 50 percent of the irrigated land in the country) downstream the
IDSP II rehabilitated dams are now getting more reliable irrigation water supply. The
IDSP II also succeeded in protecting the socio- economic infrastructure down-stream of
almost all the dams identified at appraisal as facing high risk of failure. With the
completion of the rehabilitation works on these dams as can be seen in Figure 1 on the
next page, the Risk Reduction Profile (RRP) index reached the target level of 1.87
percent set at the project design.




                                               8
9
Figure 1. IDSP II: Planned and Actual Risk Reduction Profile for 47 Dams




                                  10
11
        In the Figure, the number of population and dams are plotted on the vertical axis.
The solid line shows the number of dams rehabilitated, and the dotted line the population
at risk gradually declining. The index improved directly in line with the execution of the
various project activities but was behind schedule mainly because the delayed installation
of alert systems, especially the communications equipment and related training for
managing the alert and safety measures such as evacuation and safe heavens. However,
as the type and technical specifications for this equipment have been finally agreed with
the Ministry of Emergency Situations5 and the subsequent extension of the closing date,
the procurement, installation, and training of specialists could be completed, and the risk
index could reach the level that was expected at project design. The remaining risk level
(1.87) is mostly related to the occurrence of unexpected events (earthquakes, etc.); and/or
mis-management of the structures or of the possible emergencies and corresponding
handling of the alerts and response.
        The only dam where significant planned rehabilitation works were not done was
the Kaps dam6. During implementation, there was an agreement between the GOA and
the Bank to transfer the rehabilitation of Kaps dam to another donor ­ the Millennium
Challenge Corporation (MCC) ­ who got involved in the I&D sector starting 2006.
Hence, it was not upgraded as envisaged because it was supposed that a dam would be
built under the MCC program. However, MCC has recently redefined its program in
Armenia, and not only Kaps but all dam works are now excluded, so the solution to
protect 800 of the 120,000 people targeted at appraisal is still pending and this target
protecting people downstream the targeted dams was achieved for about 99 percent. Two
other dams, Martiros-1 and Lower Bazmaberd where very small works were planned
(costing US$1,000 each) were not done because further investigations discarded the
existence of significant risks.
        Institutional strengthening under IDSP II implied the preparation of regulations
and necessary procedures for dams operation, training of operators, and provision of
heavy equipment for O&M of dams. The preparation of regulations and new procedures
was again transferred to the MCC's Program, which envisaged huge investments and
hiring international consultants for reviewing the Water Code and all associated
regulations. Their activities comprised also procedures for dam operation, so in order to
avoid duplications, this institutional support activity was not done under the IDSP II, and

5
  Discussion first with the EMA, and since July 2008 with the Armenian Rescue Service (ARS), lasted for about a year
and a half due to a disagreement on the type of communications equipment to be procured. The EMA/ARS was a
crucial party that needed to be involved in implementation and their opinion was very important. Due to this delay in
reaching an agreement on the type of the equipment to be procured, it became necessary to extend by nine months the
original IDSP II closing date for completing procurement, site installation of equipment and related training activities.
6
   During appraisal it was planned that Kaps dam would be upgraded through investment of estimated US$430,000 to
be used for constructing an open canal in the partially constructed dam body. IDSP II invested only US$26,064 in
improving the outlets, after which the GOA proposed to include some other type of works estimated at almost US$4
million. Since the total amount of the project was just US$6.75 million, these works were not possible to finance under
IDSPII and was transferred to MCC whose program budget was much bigger. Unfortunately, in 2008 MCC redefined
its program and the dams component was left out of the program. However, according to the recent information, the
GOA requested the Ministry of Nature Protection to carry out environmental assessment related to the dam
rehabilitation (the PIU provided all the designs and drawings available) since the GOA is going to fund these activities
with co-financing from KfW. Moreover, the new design will include also a pipeline, so the total amount of works is
estimated in a range of US$7-8 million.


                                                          12
only training of dam operators and provision of the O&M heavy equipment was
delivered.
        Adequate training was aimed at providing sustainability to the project by assuring
that personnel in charge of dams at all levels - including technicians and engineers - had
the required technical knowhow to perform their duties efficiently. Some delays in
provision of both: the technical assistance and the O&M equipment to the WSA were
mainly linked with the on-going WSA reorganization. Once the four regional branches of
the former WSA were in place, the PIU proceeded with procurement of the O&M
machines. However, the quantity of equipment was less than anticipated at project design
due to significant increase in prices and some underestimation of costs at the project
design. Instead of the planned 34 pieces of machines for 55 dams, only 21 could be
provided for 34 dams7.
     All planned 16 dam access roads had been rehabilitated with a cost of
US$644,100 enabling timely access and provision of safety measures under emergencies.

3.3 Efficiency
        The approach of the economic analysis prepared in 2004 and presented in the
PAD, has been highly conservative. The same approach was maintained for the ex post
analysis: benefits from saving human lives were not valued; the potentially affected types
of infrastructure have been valued at the lowest between market and replacement values;
and the adjustment factor used for the cost of these avoided losses has been 0.3 (damages
produced by the eventual floods amount to only 30 percent of the estimated cost of the
structure). The PAD analysis valued the avoided damages caused in case of dam breaks
separately for: (i) the Kechut Dam; (ii) the Kaps Dam; and (iii) all the remaining 45
dams; due to the different nature of the potential losses caused by Kechut and Kaps (that
were the larger single investments to be done under the IDSP II). For the ex post analysis,
the evaluation exercise was repeated, but excluding the benefits assumed for the 3 dams
that were not rehabilitated as planned (Kaps, Martiros-1 and Lower Bazmaberd). Actual
investment costs were confronted with the related benefits to estimate the expected
economic impact. Annex 3 presents the details and assumptions for the analysis which
shows that the value of benefits at risk for the PAD were valued at US$94.2 million,
while for this update the value would reach US$91.3 million when excluding the 3 dams.
        The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was calculated in both cases over a period of
20 years and the discount factor for the Net Present Value (NPV) was assumed at 10
percent. The IDSP II benefit stream was calculated in both cases multiplying the value of
potential losses by the reduction of the average probability of failure for the group of 47
dams (in the PAD), and for the rehabilitated 44 dams (for this ICR). The reduction of the
average probability of failure has been estimated to be at 3,09 percent (the forecast was


7
  Equipment was provided to the four Water Supply Agencies (WSAs), which have responsibility for O&M of dams.
Under IDP the same WSAs received 17 pieces of similar equipment for O&M of canals. At the same time, under DSP,
WSAs received 14 pieces of machinery for O&M of dams. Thus, considering also equipment that WSAs possessed
before the WB assistance, we could state that WSAs would be able to perform their O&M activities on dams with the
available machinery pool.




                                                      13
made by the international consulting team of the company Jacobs GIB hired under the
DSP) and the project was expected to lower it to 1,87 percent (and reached the targeted
level). The resulting ERR for the appraisal was estimated at 33.4 percent, and the NPV,
US$7.4 million. For the ICR analysis, these values are lower but still highly positive:
28.3 percent as ERR, and US$6.48 million as NPV (see Annex 3).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
       Rating: Satisfactory
        Project design was relevant and pertinent, and most of the PDO were achieved as
mentioned above. Efficiency was also adequate as shown by the significant economic
impact being obtained. About 99 percent of the targeted population (about 119,200
people) is now under less risk of dam failure; and the target risk reduction profile index
has attained the foreseen levels, as a result of the project's structural and non-structural
measures enforced. However, minor shortcomings in the outcome, include the partial
rehabilitation of Kaps dam which has not reduced significantly the risk of dam failure
that could affect 800 people; and the lower than expected support to the WSA to prepare
the necessary regulations and operational procedures to guide all parties in dam
management, and for conducting annual independent audits of WSA operations and
accounts. These shortcomings were a natural consequence of the MCC apparent strong
commitment for supporting I&D development in Armenia that was not maintained.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
        Poverty in Armenia is, as in most other developing countries, concentrated in
rural areas. The extremely small-size farm structure introduced in the nineties as in most
FSU countries makes it very difficult to improve the income of these rural communities.
Even though irrigation is not the solution or the end of all their problems, at least it
provides a better ground for increasing significantly rural employment, agricultural and
labor productivity, and ultimately for reducing rural poverty. DSP and IDSP II were
effective in enhancing enabling conditions for investing in irrigated higher value crops
like grape and orchards. This was attained through improvement of the supporting
infrastructure which contributes to a security environment for investments in previously
risky rural agricultural areas. Agriculture is the base for rural employment for both, men
and women. Hence, the project is contributing substantially to increase incomes, create
jobs and ultimately, reduce poverty.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
        Institutional strengthening under the IDSP II was delayed during the first years
due to the institutional changes that were being processed by the government. In March
of 2006 the central administration of the WSA was abolished and all water supply
functions transferred to four regional branches established on a regional basis. The
branches became separate legal entities and took the responsibility for O&M of
respective river basin's infrastructure, including dams. Currently, the regional branches
of the WSA are providing water to existing WUAs without requiring subsidies, and the
introduction of FWUAs, are expected to further remove responsibilities from the WSA,



                                              14
reducing its sphere of action and easing future efforts for its full restructuring. This
process is being addressed under the Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency Project.
        Institutional reforms are still on-going in Armenia, which could have implications
for the country's system of dams. In this context, the IDSP II training activities with
WSA personnel, and the provision of heavy machinery for O&M were highly supportive
to the strengthening of the new decentralized sector institutions, and it remains important
for the government to continue to dedicate the necessary effort and resources to
managing and maintaining its dam system safe. Under the new legal framework, the
management of smaller dams should gradually be transferred to federations and WUAs as
soon as they are geared up in terms of financial and technical capacities.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
        The project has contributed to building and supporting the development of private
sector capacity in consulting and contracting in the country. At the beginning of the
project the capacity of those industries was weak and it was considered that works would
need to rely on foreign contractors. Local consultants benefited from working with
international consultants and the advice they received from the PIU international dam
specialist as well as the Bank team. Over time they gained more experience and were
able to deal with design and supervision of dam safety measures. The same with local
contractors who gained a lot of experience in dam rehabilitation works and could
compete successfully with international contractors, resulting in significant cost savings
from the PAD budget.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
       No beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshop was done.

                   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

       Rating: Moderate
        Three complete dam failures had occurred in Armenia during the last two and a
half decades of the last millennium: Agarak (1974), Marmarik (1978) and Artik (1994),
due to settlement, seepage and erosion problems. Proper surveillance could have detected
the incipient distress in time to avoid damages.
        With the DSP and the IDSP II successful implementation of structural and non-
structural measures in most of the existing dams in Armenia, the risk of failures and
subsequent damages has been reduced at levels in line with international standards. There
is now an emergency response system in place for minimizing risks. The case of
Vardakar dam accident that occurred on June 4, 2005, illustrates how well the preventive
non-structural measures on the dam safety program responded on a real emergency
situation provoked by an unusual flash flood. Since there was a danger that the dam will
be breached, a quick and appropriate response by the local and central WSA, EMA and
PIU authorities averted that, and started dealing with the situation almost immediately by
drawing down the reservoir water level and filling the developing sinkholes. At the same
time, the warning system was put into operation and the population below the dam was
informed and evacuated to safe grounds. This accident and the immediate and effective



                                             15
response that avoided further damages illustrate how the planned preparedness worked
and why the risk to the project development outcome is considered to be modest.

                 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
       (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
       Rating: Satisfactory
        The Bank sent an experienced preparation team that included experts with a
highly relevant experience in dam engineering and in preparation and supervision of
previous Bank-funded projects that included safety of dams. The team performed several
field inspections and safety assessments and provided balanced and effective advice and
elements for upgrading the institutional capacity for monitoring the state of all dams and
for ensuring preparedness and timely interventions to allow for their sustainable use. The
Bank support has helped in identifying and introducing best practices in: (i) assessing the
hazards of dam failure, prioritizing dams for rehabilitation, and selecting appropriate
approaches to the actual rehabilitation of dams; (ii) monitoring of dam safety and
establishing a system for emergency preparedness; (iii) the development and introduction
of sustainable O&M systems; and (iv) the creation of the necessary conditions for
increasing beneficiaries' interest and participation in securing the safety of dams.
       (b) Quality of Supervision
       Rating: Highly Satisfactory
       The quality and supportive attitude of the supervision team allowed the GOA to
consolidate the outputs and development impact of both, the DSP and the IDSP II. The
team followed closely the implementation details and rightly and explicitly flagged in the
Aide memoires and Implementation Status and Results (ISRs), and in its communications
with the GOA the excessive delay in providing the requested feedback on the emergency
communication concept and required equipment developed by the PIU consultants for
dam safety purposes. The supervision team was well balanced in terms of expertise and
responsiveness whenever new needs arose.
       (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
       Rating: Overall, Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
       (a) Government Performance
       Rating: Satisfactory
        The GOA showed continued ownership and commitment towards achieving the
PDO. It complied with most of the agreed actions to make the dam safety policy in
Armenia a clear success story. A highly committed team has been maintained in the PIU
which has been highly effective in implementing the project. The GOA has been active in
adjusting the institutional framework to enhance its effectiveness in managing the I&D
structures of the country. A minor but unnecessary situation in which the GOA attitude
could have been more proactive and effective, was the excessive time spent for
responding to the PIU consultants about the suggested communications network


                                              16
equipment to be procured and installed in all dam sites for the EPP. This 18 months
delay left insufficient time for the subsequent procurement process, for the installation of
the equipment, and for provision of training for the operators and led to the request and
agreed extension of the closing date by nine months.
       (b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
       Rating: Highly satisfactory
        An effective PIU with a strong local staff have contributed to a well designed and
managed program. PIU was responsible for an exemplary implementation and driving
role that included the IDP, the DSP and other Bank financed projects, being instrumental
also for a successful sector policy reform process that is still on-going. It conducted an
outstanding balanced structural and non-structural project components centered on the
rehabilitation of unsafe dam structures that allowed for protecting people and the
improvement of the downstream economic sector base from where most of the poor live.
The PIU has also managed to established a successful track record of effectiveness and
sound handling of fiduciary requirements. The financial management arrangements have
been reviewed periodically and found satisfactory: it had adequate and competent staff
and a sound accounting system. It has been also positively assessed regarding its
procurement function and proved to be experienced with IDA procurement policies and
procedures.
       (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
       Rating: Satisfactory

                                   6. Lessons Learned

9      Assessment of dam safety is complicated: to find a problem in a dam, how to
       qualify the problem, and how to propose measures to improve dam safety, are all
       difficult tasks and need a lot of experience. Many times it needs to rely mostly on
       international experience and also to carry out detailed geotechnical investigations
       and field inspection and testing.
9      It is usual that some of the originally proposed design solutions may change
       during construction as a result of more detailed investigations, and due to the
       emerging conditions and the dam structure flaws as happened in the case of
       Marmarik dam, or due to simpler and less costly solutions that were arising as
       more investigations were available, as appeared for several other dams which
       resulted in big cost savings.
9      Training is essential for the staff of the PIU and WSA on dam safety aspects
       especially as this is a very specialized field. Also, it is prudent to include the
       communities in the training program especially on the use of the EPPs and on
       Early Warning System (EWS).
9      Establishing a separate dam agency for O&M or a special unit within the WSA is
       preferable because dam O&M is a very specialized operation which requires
       experience and high professional skills.




                                             17
9       Improving dam safety would promote investment downstream the rehabilitated
        dams as result of anticipating more reliable water and a more safety structure for
        downstream life and assets.
9       Improvements on dam management and on optimizing of water utilization, is still
        needed in the country. This would involve computer based operation and
        management, and may be, construction of new dams, especially on the rivers
        which have the potential for cascade dams. This can be subject to a new follow
        up project which at least look at the optimization aspects of operation and
        management of existing dams and further strengthening the management of the
        country dams.

    7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
        The borrower did not raise any issue.

(b) Cofinanciers
        N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
        N/A




                                            18
                              Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                                             Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                                               Appraisal
                                                       millions)
 REHABILITATION OF 47
                                        3.45                3.92                                   113.70
DAMS
 DAM SAFETY
                                        2.89                3.92                                   135.70
SUSTAINABILITY
 PROJECT MANAGEMENT                     0.40                0.56                                   140.00

                Total Baseline Cost                   6.74                     8.40                124.70
Physical Contingencies
                                                      0.51                     0.00                 0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                      0.25                     0.00                 0.00
               Total Project Costs                    7.50                     8.40                124.70
Front-end fee PPF                                     0.00                     0.00                 0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                    0.00                     0.00                 0.00
       Total Financing Required                       7.50                     8.40                124.70




(b) Financing
                                                                 Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                Type of          Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
            Source of Funds
                                              Cofinancing         (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                                 millions)   millions)
Borrower                                                           0.75       1.29*)      172.00
International Development
                                                                     6.75              7.11            105.40
Association (IDA)

*)
   There are two main reasons for the increased Borrower's contribution: (i) during the project appraisal, it was
assumed that the winners for ICB tenders would be more international companies than locals, however, there were
more local companies and, correspondingly, the share of the Borrower's contribution was more than expected; and (ii)
the project was extended for nine months and more funds were required to be disbursed from the Borrower's side.




                                                        19
                                 Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component A ­ Rehabilitation of 47 Dams
        Design and supervision subcomponent cost was US$0.18 million. It provided
for preparation of rehabilitation designs prior to construction works. The designs for 18
dams to be rehabilitated under the IDSP II were already prepared under the previous
DSP. The design for the remaining 29 dams have been completed as planned. Technical
supervision of construction works was adequately carried out by the same firm having
prepared the design and all civil works provided under the Project had been effectively
executed. Consequently: (i) 119,200 of the targeted 120,000 people that were considered
at risk before the IDSP II is now significantly less exposed; (ii) most of the socio-
economic infrastructure downstream of the rehabilitated dams is protected; and (iii) the
RRP index reached the target level of 1.87 percent set at the project design.
         Rehabilitation works subcomponent cost was US$3.72 million. The
implemented structural activities addressed mainly the following problems: dam body
stability; insufficient spillway capacity for transforming the maximal probable flood,
irrigation outlet's insufficient capacity, seepage from dam body; erosion; and dam crest
settlement. All rehabilitation works of 44 out of the 47 original dams have also been
completed, and monitoring equipment devices have been installed on all of them.
Rehabilitation activities under IDSP II covered some incomplete or non-operational dams
which nevertheless pose some danger, e.g. Kaps and Getik dams. Currently water flows
out from those dams through irrigation/diversion outlets. If these outlets fail, the reservoir
may be filled up causing dam breach. The only case where the proposed works were not
done was in the Kaps dam8 which was not rehabilitated as envisaged because it was
agreed that a new small dam would be built under the MCC program. MCC has recently
changed his program and these works are still to be done to protect 800 of the 120,000
people targeted to be protected at appraisal. Two of the planned dams to be rehabilitated
with an investment of US$1,000 each (Martiros 1 and and Lower Bazmaberd) have been
discarded either because the dam was abandoned or there was no need to upgraded based
on safety reasons.
Component B ­ Dam Safety Sustainability
        Installation of Dam Safety Equipment subcomponent cost was US$1.3
million. The design activities were preceded by the necessary studies undertaken by
international and local experts related to the communication system designs. Discussion
first with the EMA, and since July 2008 with the Armenian Rescue Service (ARS), lasted
for about a year and a half due to disagreement on the type of equipment to be procured.
The EMA/ARS was a crucial party that needed to be involved in implementation and
their opinion was very important. The project did not have enough funds to procure the
ARS preferred Tetra type of equipment which was estimated to cost about US$7-8

8
  During appraisal it was planned that Kaps dam would be upgraded through investment of US$430,000 for
constructing an open canal in the partially constructed dam body. IDSP II invested only US$26,064 in improving the
outlets and handed over the major works to MCC to avoid conflicting works being considered at the time.


                                                       20
million. Finally, this long-standing issue was cleared on July 2008, when the PIU
received an official letter from the recently established Ministry of Emergency Situations
(MOES) (EMA/ARS was incorporated as part of the Ministry), in which the Minister
expressed agreement with the TORs and opinions of both international and local experts
regarding the equipment designs. The purchased equipment was of two main types: (i)
radio stations, which could be purchased and installed without designs; and (ii) early
warning system (sirens), purchased and installed after the design works to determine the
specific types of sirens, quantities, required materials etc. US$1.3 million was provided
for dam safety site equipment and installations, US$0.8 million of which was allocated
for procurement of equipment for which the types and quantities were identified. The
remaining US$0.5 million was used for procurement of equipment, including sirens
determined during the design of Communication and Emergency Preparedness
Equipment. Due to the 18 months delay in reaching an agreement on the type of the
communications equipment to be procured, it became necessary to extend the original
IDSP II closing date by nine months for completing equipment procurement and site
installation activities.
         All the Armenian dams were covered some communication equipment and early
warning equipment ­ sirens, etc. either by DSP or IDSP II. However the scope of those
activities was different under DSP and IDSP II. Short wave radio stations were installed
at the dams rehabilitated under DSP, and alarm sirens were installed in the settlements
located within floodable areas of those dams. EPP were prepared for all dams. However,
DSP did not provide funds for additional radio equipment and other emergency
preparedness equipment for effective implementation of EPPs. In order to fill that gap,
IDSP II provided for additional communication equipment to central and regional offices
of MOES, dam sites and Dam O&M Agency. It was also provided to install early
warning systems (sirens and support parts ­ cables, pipes, etc.) in the settlements located
within reservoir inundation areas.
        WSA Strengthening implied preparation of regulations and necessary procedures
for dams operation. WSA strengthening activities also implied arranging for annual
independent audits of WSA operations and accounts, and the continued assistance of an
independent dam safety expert for the duration of the project. However, during
implementation, there was an agreement between the GOA and the Bank to transfer this
activity to another donor ­ Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) ­ who got
involved in this sector starting 2006. The underlying reason was that the MCC's Program
envisaged hiring international consultants for reviewing the Water Code and all
associated regulations which comprised also procedures for dam operation. In order to
avoid duplications, this activity was transferred to the MCC Program.
        Training of dam operation personnel was also foreseen necessary to ensure
sustainability of the project so that personnel in charge of dams at all levels - including
technicians and engineers - had the required technical knowledge to perform their duties
efficiently. The first stage of training for dam operation staff (conducted under DSP
during the technical transfer of rehabilitated dams to Dam Operation Agency) was
continued under IDSP II, when the Armenian dam operation staff received international
training/study tour carried out in Great Britain by Mot MacDonald. The training lasted
for 10 days and was attended by nine members of Dam Operation Agency and PIU. The


                                            21
following activities took place during the training: (i) Workshop on UK and international
legislation and policy and organizations of dam safety; (ii) Workshop on operation and
maintenance policy; (iii) Workshop on floods and dam safety; (iv) Workshop on dam
breach analysis and inundation area mapping; (v) Visit to Dam Management Department
of Severn Trent Water company; and (vi) Visit to three dams to look at dam operation
and maintenance.
        WSA strengthening subcomponent also foresaw to maintain a basic amount of
equipment for proper O&M at 55 dams. Some delays in provision of both: the technical
assistance and the equipment to WSA were mainly linked with the on-going
reorganization of the WSA. Hence, the PIU considered that it was not the right time for
procuring machines-mechanisms that were supposed to be operated by the successor(s) of
the WSA. Once the four regional branches of the former WSA were in place, the PIU
precede with procurement of these O&M machines-mechanisms. However, the quantity
of equipment was less than anticipated at project design because the cost for procuring
this equipment was underestimated. Instead of the planned 34 pieces of machines, only
21 could be provided for O&M purposes with the assigned funds. The cost of this
subcomponent was US$1.4 million and later it was increased to US$1.68 million and 21
units of heavy equipment were provided to the WSA under IDSP II.
        Improvement of Access Roads was done in all 16 planned dams included under
the project with a cost of US$644.100 enabling timely access and implementation of
safety measures in case of emergency. Fifteen of these roads were rehabilitated under the
project and one was rehabilitated with the community financial participation. Civil works
were completed on January 10, 2008.




                                           22
                     Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

A. Introduction
        The general approach of the PAD economic analysis prepared in 2004 has been
very conservative. The same approach was maintained for this ex post analysis. As in the
original estimations, benefits from saving human lives are not valued, as well as the
marginal reduction of the risk profile that the IDSP II could have cause to the 27 dams
rehabilitated under DSP due to the introduction of additional non-structural measures and
the additional WSA strengthening activities. In both evaluation exercises, the potentially
affected types of infrastructure have been valued at the lowest between market and
replacement values; and the adjustment factor for the cost of these avoided losses has
been 0.3 (meaning that damages produced by the eventual floods amount to only 30
percent of the estimated cost of the structure). Also, some costs associated with potential
dam breaks, such as expenses for implementing rescue operations, have not been
included. For the PAD analysis the evaluation of the avoided damages caused in case of
dam breaks has been done separately for: (i) the Kechut Dam; (ii) the Kaps Dam; and (iii)
all the remaining 45 dams rehabilitated as one group, due to the different nature of the
potential losses caused by Kechut and Kaps (that were also the larger single investments
to be done under the IDSP II) it was justified the separate evaluation of their cases.
       At completion, all rehabilitation works has been done for 44 of the 47 planned
dams. For this ICR analysis, the evaluation appraisal exercise was repeated, but
excluding the benefits assumed for the three dams that were not rehabilitated (Kaps,
Martiros-1 and Lower Bazmaberd).
B. Evaluation of losses at the 43 rehabilitated dam sites
       Implementation of the rehabilitation interventions on the original 45 dams
(excluding Kechut and Kaps) led to:
       a) Reduced risk for 118,500 people living downstream of the dams to be
       rehabilitated.
       b) Reduced risk of potential flooding and loss of yield on 64,350 ha of irrigated
       land.
       c) Reduced risk of potential destruction of 1,090 private houses and various other
       quantities of roads, public utilities, other infrastructure, and industrial enterprises.
       Only the benefits in b) and c) have been estimated for both analyses. The
appraisal process of evaluation of potential losses on the 45 sites was based on the
following steps:
       Step 1: The starting point was the evaluation made by the international technical
consulting team in charge of the technical investigations (done in 2003) of the relative
economic importance of the damages that the breakage of each dam could have been
produced. A desk review of the quantity of infrastructure existing in each dam inundation
area was made by a technical team, and on the basis of their assessment a relative
economic importance indicator ranging from 0 to 3.65 to each dam was associated. To a



                                             23
higher number of quantities and/or value of infrastructure in the inundation area it
correspond a higher value of the indicator.
        Step 2: A set of 10 dams considered as being representative of Armenia in terms
of economic development of area downstream, extension of the inundation area and
strength of the potential flood waves was chosen for close analysis. Detailed calculations
were made through field visits using current market prices of the potential losses at those
10 dam sites. All potential losses including any infrastructure in the inundation areas of
those 10 dams have been evaluated and the average adjustment factor used was 0.3.
        Step 3: The aggregate amount of the detailed estimated losses at the selected 10
dam sites as described in Step 2 was divided by the total of the values those 10 dams
were attributed in terms of relative economic importance indicator as described in Step 1.
This allowed estimating the value to be attributed for one unit of the indicator estimated
by the technical team. The result of such estimation showed that one unit of the indicator
was estimated to be worth US$874,200. This value, estimated in 2004 was assumed to be
valid for this ICR analysis.
       Step 4: The relative economic importance indicators for the remaining dams have
then been multiplied for such value of US$874,200 obtaining the estimated value of
losses in all 45 sites to be in the order of US$55.8 million. For the ICR analysis,
Martiros-1 and Lower Bazmaberd dams were excluded from the estimated value of
possible losses from the remaining 43 dams and resulted in US54.3 million.
C. Evaluation of losses at Kechut and Kaps sites
        Potential losses at Kechut and Kaps Dams were estimated individually for the
appraisal assessment due to the relevance of socio-economic activities in the inundation
area downstream. All missing data have been collected during field visits that took place
at the beginning of April 2004 and are assumed to be still valid. As far as Kaps is
concerned the only real issue was the evaluation of a military base that has been
evaluated at the cost of its buildings only, without inclusion of losses on military
equipment, weapons etc., information that was not available. Since this dam was not
rehabilitated because it was left to MCC for further works, Kaps dam benefits were
completely excluded for this ICR analysis.
       The case of Kechut Dam included the break of water delivery to Sevan Lake and
subsequently, assuming release from Sevan lake is not increased, lack of water delivery
to Sevan Hydropower Cascade (120 Mm3 delivered in 2003) and to 11,440 ha of Ararat
Valley land. One m3 of water, while passing through Sevan Cascade hydropower stations
(HPS) generates 1,89 kwh of energy. In the result of stoppage of six HPS, when
economic cost of 1 Kwh of energy is 32.5 AMD (according to the Economic and
Financial Analysis of IDP), total losses would amount to US$ 15.8 million (see details in
Annex 9, Table 4 of the IDSP II PAD). The value of potential losses of the irrigated
11,440 ha in the Ararat Valley was valued at US$9.5 million (using an updated average




                                            24
net value of production per ha, as calculated in the IDP ICR prepared in May 2009),
resulting in a total value of potential losses at Kechut Dam site of US37 million9.
D. Calculation of ERR and NPV
        Estimation of total losses of all 47 dams at appraisal is shown in Table 5, Annex 9
of the PAD, totaling US$94.2 million. For the new assessment, total losses are estimated
in US$91.3 million.
       ERR was calculated over a period of 20 years. Discount factor for NPV is
assumed to be 10 percent. The benefit stream has been calculated multiplying the value
of potential losses by the reduction of the average probability of failure for the group of
47 dams for the appraisal and for the 44 dams rehabilitated as a result of IDSP II
implementation.
        The reduction of the average probability of failure has been estimated to be at
3,09 percent (the forecast was made by the international consulting team of the company
Jacobs GIB hired under the DSP) and the project expect to lower it, by 2007, to 1.87
percent (target level). The reduction of the average dams' break probability percentage is
assumed to follow the schedule of rehabilitation works under the project and accelerate
particularly in year 2006 (see Table 6).
       The reduction of the average dams' break probability percentage in situations
"with Project" and "without Project" has been calculated for each of the 20 years of the
analysis. It has then been multiplied by the total value of losses to obtain the benefit
stream. The net benefit stream has been obtained subtracting the Project investments
stream. The resulting ERR for the Project at appraisal was estimated at 33.4 percent and
the NPV (10 percent) was US$7,425 thousand. For the ex post analysis, these values are:
ERR 28.3 percent, and NPV US$6.48 million (see Table 1 below).




9
  This interpretation assumes that the Vorotan and Arpa-Sevan Tunnel can deliver the amount of water delivered from
Ketchut reservoir. If this should be not true, for example the Vorotan tunnel should collapse, such investment in
Ketchut dam would not have much economic sense (beside any consideration on savings human lives) since water
could not be delivered neither to the energy stations nor to the Ararat valley. It was assumed that the GOA was
considering the need of such investments and that such risk profile curve downstream in the system will be normalized,
as much as it is technically possible, in the course of the following few years.




                                                         25
               Table 1. Ex Post Calculation of NPV and ERR


       Reduction of losses due to Rehabilitation of 44 dams
          Dam                                                 Investment    Net
                   Dam Break      Reduction
Year     Break                                  Reduction         costs    benefit
                   Probability     of Dam
       Probability                               of losses     ('000US$) ('000US$)
                    With the        Break
        Without                                 ('000US$)
                     project      Probability
       the project
2005      3.09        3.09           0.00           0            974       -974
2006      3.15        2.60           0.55          502           452        50
2007      3.27        1.91           1.36         1,242         2,984     -1742
2008      3.41        1.87           1.54         1,406          615        791
2009      3.55        1.90           1.65         1,506         3,056     -1550
2010      3.69        1.98           1.71         1,561          309       1252
2011      3.84        2.06           1.78         1,625                    1625
2012      4.04        2.15           1.89         1,726                    1726
2013      4.16        2.23           1.93         1,762                    1762
2014      4.31        2.33           1.98         1,808                    1808
2015      4.50        2.44           2.06         1,881                    1881
2016      4.69        2.52           2.17         1,981                    1981
2017      4.89        2.61           2.28         2,082                    2082
2018      5.08        2.73           2.35         2,146                    2146
2019      5.28        2.84           2.44         2,228                    2228
2020      5.50        2.95           2.55         2,328                    2328
2021      5.72        3.07           2.65         2,419                    2419
2022      5.96        3.20           2.76         2,520                    2520
2023      6.20        3.33           2.87         2,620                    2620
2024      6.45        3.46           2.99         2,730                    2730
         Totals        51             40          36,073        8,390     27,683
                                                                ERR       28.3%
                                                                NPV       $6,480




                                       26
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                      Responsibility/
          Names                         Title                Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Giuseppe Fantozzi         Operations Officer                ECSSD   Financial Analysis
Alessandro Palmieri       Dam Specialist                    OPCQC   Dam Safety
Usaid I. El-Hanbali       Water Resources Engineer          ECSSD   Engineer
Arman Vatyan              Sr. Financial Management Specia   ECSPS   Fin. management
Yingwei Wu                Senior Procurement Specialist     ECSPS   Procurement
Arusyak Alaverdyan        Operations Officer                ECSSD   M&E
Supervision/ICR
Giuseppe Fantozzi         Sr. Operations Officer            ECSSD   Team Leader
Usaid I. El-Hanbali       Water Resources Engineer          ECSSD   Engineer
Alessandro Palmieri       Lead Dam Specialist               OPCQC   Dam Safety
Arman Vatyan              Sr. Financial Management Specia   ECSPS   Fin. management
Yingwei Wu                Senior Procurement Specialist     ECSPS   Procurement
Arusyak Alaverdyan        Operations Officer                ECSSD   M&E


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including
                                    No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                          2                       2.93
  FY05                                                                  0.00
  FY06                                                                  0.00
  FY07                                                                  0.00
  FY08                                                                  0.00
                          Total:                2                       2.93
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                                  0.89
  FY05                                        13                       27.24
  FY06                                        17                       40.57
  FY07                                        21                       65.64
  FY08                                        27                       66.11
  FY09                                        21                        0.00
                          Total:              99                      200.45




                                         27
                                                                10                                             11
      Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.     Background

        Armenia is a small, mountainous country with an area of 29,743 square
kilometers (km2). Its average altitude is 1,830 meters (m) above the sea level. About 90
percent of the territory is at an altitude above 1,000 m. The population of Armenia is
about 3.0 million. In the Former Soviet Union (FSU), Armenia occupied a relatively
favorable position, owing to the production of high-valuable agricultural products
(grapes, fruits, tobacco, vegetables, etc.), and light industrial products (machine tools,
electric engines and military products). The economy was, thus, driven by export. At the
end of the 1980s, Armenia had a prospering industry and one of the highest living
standards in the Soviet Union. The collapse of the economic, financial and trade links
with the former Soviet republics led to a rapid deterioration of the production
infrastructure, which translated into a rapid decrease in national production.
        Agriculture remains a dominant sector in the economy of Armenia. It provides
varying levels of productive employment to about half of the households, and contributes
about 30 percent of GDP. Agricultural lands cover about 1.4 million hectares (ha), of
which about 500,000 ha (35 percent) are plough lands. Of this latter area, about 280,000
ha are potentially irrigable.
       The irrigation infrastructure comprises 81 reservoirs, about 3,000 kilometers (km)
of main and secondary canals, about 18,000 km of tertiary canals, 400 medium and large
pumping stations, about 2,220 tubewells and artesian wells, and about 2,000 km of
drainage-collectors.
       Currently there are 87 reservoirs in Armenia with a total storage capacity of
1,14512 million cubic meters (Mm3). 81 of these reservoirs with a total capacity of 774
Mm3 are used for irrigation purposes. In other words, about 90 percent of all reservoirs
and 70 percent of their total capacity is used for irrigation purposes. 81 irrigation
reservoirs and six energy reservoirs of Armenia were built about 30-50 years ago. Ten
reservoirs were built until 1960. Most of the reservoirs (50) were built between 1960 and
1980. Another 20 reservoirs were built after 1980, and only two reservoirs were
commissioned in the 1990-ies ­ David-Bek (1990) and Herher (1994).
       After the collapse of FSU and thereafter, the maintenance of dam infrastructure
suffered drastically due to shortage of funds allocated for operation and maintenance
(O&M) of the entire irrigation system. Furthermore, the devastating Spitak earthquake in
10
   The Borrower's ICR was prepared by the PIU in both Armenian and English languages and submitted to the Bank
on February 11, 2010. Annex 5 presents brief summary of the Borrower's completion report.

11
   The comments from the Borrower on the ICR in the form of a letter from the Ministry of Territorial Administration
were received by the Bank on May 17, 2010. An unofficial English translation of the letter signed by Vache Terteryan,
the First Deputy Minister, is attached at the end of this Annex.

12
     The volume of the Akhuryan Reservoir is calculated for its 50 percent storage.



                                                           28
1988 forced to revise seismic requirements, and it appeared that there are dam stability
problems. The design of some dams was not adequate due to insufficient capacities of
spillway and outlet structures.
       These issues were addressed under the Dam Safety Project (DSP) prepared in
1999 with the assistance of the World Bank (WB) team. Initially it included the most
endangered 20 dams. The lack of funds did not allow providing sufficient safety
measures under DSP (mainly non-structural). These non-structural measures included
required safety equipment, metering equipment and minimal quantity of operation and
maintenance equipment. Besides, some limited investments were required for
arrangement of access roads to 16 dams for safety reasons. Detailed investigations
conducted under DSP showed that 54 dams out of the remaining 6713 not covered by DSP
needed urgent interventions, priority measures or at least installation of monitoring
equipment14. Seven dams out of 54 were rehabilitated under DSP: two by using
Emergency Rehabilitation Funds, and five through the savings accumulated during DSP
implementation. In total, 27 dams were rehabilitated under the DSP.
       Thus, considering activities of DSP, out of 87 Armenian dams only 47 dam still
needed some type of rehabilitation and/or repair to bring their safety into compliance
with international standards. Hence Irrigation Dam Safety II Project (IDSP II) became a
continuation of DSP and was aimed at improvement of the safety of all dams in the
country.

2. Description of the project

        The Project Development Objective (PDO) was to protect the people and the
socio-economic infrastructure downstream of dams facing high risk of failure. The
repeater project was aimed at continuation of the safety measures that were started by
DSP and their expansion over the dams that were identified as risky as a result of
investigations. The ultimate objective was to bring the technical state and operation
conditions of the identified dams into compliance with international requirements thus
improving the safety and the social-economic environment of 120,000 people living
downstream.

         The project was a four-year program comprised of the following components:
         A. Rehabilitation of 47 dams
            A.1 Design and supervision
            A.2 Rehabilitation works


13
  Eleven dams did not require any safety-related intervention and two energy dams currently are managed by a
Russian company ("International Energy Corporation" CJSC) which is responsible for their safe operation.

14
   For Yerevan Lake dam full investigations were not carried out under DSP. The investigation of this dam will be
financed under IDSP II. Two energy dams ­ Argel and Akhpara, were taken pout within the scope of dam safety
projects as they are managed by a Russian company, who undertook the full responsible for their safe operation and
emergency preparedness.




                                                        29
       B. Dam safety sustainability
           B.1. Field installation of dam safety equipment
           B.2 Strengthening of Water Supply Agency
           B.3 Improvement of access roads as a safety measure
       C. Project management

       Following is the detailed summary by components.
Component A. Rehabilitation of 47 Dams
        This component would provide for: (i) engineering design of rehabilitation
activities for 29 dams and preparation of an emergency preparedness plan for the
Yerevan Lake Dam, (ii) implementation of rehabilitation works on 47 dams (29 dams for
which designs are provided for under this project and 18 dams for which designs were
already prepared under DSP); (iii) construction supervision in the course of the
rehabilitation of the 47 dams; (iv) installation of monitoring equipment devices on the 47
dams.
        Design and supervision. The estimated cost of this sub-component was US$0.18
million. This component provided for preparation of rehabilitation designs prior to
construction works. Technical supervision of construction works was intended to be done
by the same firm having prepared the design.
       Rehabilitation works. The estimated cost of this sub-component was US$3.72
million. The implemented structural activities were to address mainly the following
problems: dam body stability; insufficient spillway capacity for transforming the maximal
probable flood, irrigation outlet's insufficient capacity, seepage from dam body; erosion;
dam crest settlement.
Component B. Dam Safety Sustainability




                                           30
       This component would provide for:
        Field installation of dam safety equipment. The estimated cost of this sub-
component was US$1.11 million. Installation of safety equipment (telecommunication
equipment, sirens, searchlights, loud speakers) at 56 dams (including 47 dams
rehabilitated under this project, four dams rehabilitated under DSP and five not to be
rehabilitated);
        Strengthening of Water Supply Agency. This sub-component has two parts: (i)
technical assistance (TA) and training with an estimated cost of US$0.41 million; and (ii)
O&M equipment with an estimated cost of US$1.35 million. Provision of technical
assistance and equipment to WSA implied to: (a) design an integrated telecommunication
network for all dams, (b) prepare the necessary regulations and operational procedures to
guide all parties involved in management of dams, (c) arrange for annual independent
audits of WSA operations and accounts, (d) retain the services of an independent dam
safety expert for the duration of the project, (e) provide training in O&M practices for
operational staff involved at dam sites, and (f) maintain the basic amount of equipment to
allow proper O&M at 55 dams (including 43 dams rehabilitated under this project, two
rehabilitated under DSP and 10 dams that will not be rehabilitated);
       Improvement of access roads as a safety measure. The estimated cost of this
sub-component was US$0.31 million. Improvement of access roads for 16 dams deemed
necessary for enabling timely access and implementation of safety measures in case of
emergency.



Component B. Project Management
         The estimated cost for this component was US$0.42 million. This component
would provide for: (i) technical assistance for PIU to co-ordinate all project interventions,
and to provide the support services necessary for timely and effective project
implementation (procurement of goods and services, financial control, monitoring of
project activities, preparation of annual work plans, and reporting on the status of project
implementation), and (ii) PIU incremental operational cost, including audit of PIU
activities related to the project.

3. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

       The following table shows Project components and sub-components with original
and actual costs.

                           Table 1. Summary of Project Costs
                                                     Estimated
                   Component                         Costs (US$       Actual Costs
                                                      million)        (US$ million)

A. Rehabilitation of 47 Dams:                           3.900             3.915



                                             31
        A.1. Design and supervision of works                     0.180               0.216
        A.2. Rehabilitation Works                                3.720               3.699
     B. Dam Safety Sustainability:                               3.180               3.911
        B1. Dam Safety Site Installations                        1.110               1.517
        B2. Strengthening WSA                                    1.760               1.748
        B3. Improvement of Access Roads for safety               0.310               0.646
           interventions.
     C. Project management:                                      0.420               0.563
        C1. Technical Assistance & Audit                         0.320               0.329
        C2. Incremental Operational Cost                         0.100               0.234
     Total                                                       7.50               8.389


     Component A. Rehabilitation of 47 Dams
             Rehabilitation works were successfully carried out on 44 out of 47 foreseen dams.
     In Kaps dam only partial rehabilitation was done and then was handed over to the
     Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) for further rehabilitation. Other two foreseen
     dams to be rehabilitated (Martiros-1 and Lower Bazmaberd) where very minor works
     were planned (US$1,000 were foreseen in PAD) were not done because further
     investigations discarded the existence of significant risks. With the completion of the
     rehabilitation works on the 44 dams, the Risk Reduction Profile (RRP) index reached the
     target level of 1.87 percent set at the project design. Hence can be stated that the project
     achieved practically all its objectives and about 120,000 people are definitively less
     exposed mainly due to the works done on these dams
            The following table shows main works carried out under the project with original
     estimated and actual final costs by dams.
                                Table 2. Summary of Rehabilitation works

##                              Estimated Costs
                                  in 000' US$     Actual Costs      Description of Rehabilitation / Repair
             Dam Name
                                    (without      in 000' US$                      Works
                                 contingencies)
                                                                 Repair of cracks in culvert, refurbishment of
1             Joghaz                 100.0           26.572
                                                                 pipeline, valves and M&E equipment.
                                                                 Raise dam crest, construction of new spillway,
2       Ahkhlou-2 (Hovk-2)            24.0           18.857
                                                                 M&E equipment.
                                                                 Rehabilitation of dam body and spillway,
3             Maralik                105.0           119.102     repair stilling basin, installation of M&E
                                                                 equipment.
                                                                 Rehabilitation of dam body, construction of
4            Metsavan                130.0           119.967     parapet on the crest, installation of M&E
                                                                 equipment.




                                                   32
##                     Estimated Costs
                         in 000' US$     Actual Costs      Description of Rehabilitation / Repair
       Dam Name
                           (without      in 000' US$                      Works
                        contingencies)
                                                        Increase discharge capacity of the diversion
5         Getik             20.0           20.743
                                                        channel
                                                        Rehabilitation of mechanical equipment, gates
6       Akhuryan            161.0          122.424
                                                        and power cables.
                                                        Rehabilitation of upstream and downstream
                                                        faces of the dam, construction of new
7       V.Talin-1           108.3          73.559
                                                        upstream concrete slab, installation of M&E
                                                        equipment.
                                                        Rehabilitation of dam body and spillway,
8       Aghakchi            15.2            14.41
                                                        installation of M&E equipment.
                                                        Construction of parapet on dam crest,
9        Agarak             22.3           19.619       rehabilitation of spillway, installation of M&E
                                                        equipment.
                                                        Rehabilitation of dam body, formation of
10      N. Talin            39.6           34.034       spillway channel, installation of M&E
                                                        equipment.
                                                        Rehabilitation of upstream slop and spillway,
11    Katnaghbiur-1         127.5          63.093
                                                        installation of M&E equipment.
                                                        Rehabilitation of dam crest, spillway and
12      Vosketas            26.4           17.805
                                                        outlet valves, installation of M&E equipment.
                                                        Rehabilitation of dam crest and upstream slop,
13        Kosh              27.7           25.851       increase spillway capacity, installation of
                                                        M&E equipment.
                                                        Rehabilitation of dam body and outlet,
14       Talish             18.8           19.545       construction of new spillway, installation of
                                                        M&E equipment.
                                                        Rehabilitation of dam body, construction of
15   Upper Sasnashen        42.2           38.892
                                                        new spillway, installation of M&E equipment.
                                                        Rehabilitation of upstream and downstream
16        Irind             28.9           19.852
                                                        slopes, installation of M&E equipment.
                                                        Rebuilt the upstream slope of saddle dam,
17     Davidashen           47.2           23.738       rehabilitation of spillway and outlet,
                                                        installation of M&E equipment.
                                                        Rehabilitation of dam body, increase spillway
18       Shenik             110.9          74.963
                                                        capacity, installation of M&E equipment.
                                                        Raise embankment, installation of M&E
19      Saralich             7.1           11.625
                                                        equipment.
                                                        Installation of M&E equipment.
20      Aknalich             5.5           35.394

                                                        Rehabilitation of spillway, installation of
21     Karaglukh            11.0            7.131
                                                        M&E equipment.




                                          33
##                                Estimated Costs
                                    in 000' US$     Actual Costs      Description of Rehabilitation / Repair
            Dam Name
                                      (without      in 000' US$                      Works
                                   contingencies)
                                                                   Rehabilitation of downstream slope, increase
22         Aghavnadzor                 60.0           105.662      spillway capacity, installation of M&E
                                                                   equipment.
23             Hors                     9.0            9.392       Installation of M&E equipment.
                         1/
24          Martiros-1                  1.0           58.094       Increase dam crest.

25           Hartavan                   6.0           16.608       Construction of new parapet on dam crest.

                                                                   Construction of steeling basin, Installation of
26         Khashtarak-1                 4.0           21.807
                                                                   M&E equipment.
                                                                   Rehabilitation of upstream slope, construction
27         Khashtarak-2                 6.0           12.928       of new spillway, installation of M&E
                                                                   equipment.
28      Ahkhlou-1 (Hovk-1)              5.0           27.313       Installation of M&E equipment.
                                                                   Rehabilitation of downstream slope and outlet,
29            Hovk-1a                   9.0           42.442       construction of new spillway, installation of
                                                                   M&E equipment.
                                                                   Rehabilitation of dam body, outlet, and
30            Tsilkar                  25.0           32.928
                                                                   spillway, installation of M&E equipment.
                                                                   Provide adequate freeboard, repair outlet
31           Hatsashen                 11.0           22.471
                                                                   valves, installation of M&E equipment.
                                                                   Rehabilitation of embankment slopes, rebuild
32           Ashnak-2                  25.0           47.428       inlet structure of the outlet, installation of
                                                                   M&E equipment.
33           Shgarshik                  7.0           42.005       Installation of M&E equipment.
                                                                   Rehabilitation of upstream and downstream
34           Ashnak-1                  15.0           16.867       slops, repairs inlet & valve chamber of the
                                                                   outlet, installation of M&E equipment.
                                                                   Erosion between spillway and abutment to be
35           V.Talin-2                 54.7           12.741       filled, rehabilitation of feeder canal,
                                                                   installation of M&E equipment.
     Lower Bazmaberd, no works                                     Installation of M&E equipment.
36     were implemented, as the         1.0               -
      this was an abandoned dam
                                                                   Installation of M&E equipment.
37            Aragats                   5.0            4.537

                                                                   Rehabilitation of upstream and downstream
38         Katnakhbiur-2               13.0           67.799       slopes, construction of new spillway,
                                                                   installation of M&E equipment.
                                                                   Rehabilitation of outlet, installation of M&E
39             Egnik                    6.0           104.622
                                                                   equipment.
                                                                   Rehabilitation of dam body, outlet and feeder
40         Gegharkunik-1               46.7            5.102
                                                                   canal, construction of new spillway,
                                                                   installation of M&E equipment.


                                                     34
##                                      Estimated Costs
                                          in 000' US$        Actual Costs        Description of Rehabilitation / Repair
                 Dam Name
                                            (without         in 000' US$                        Works
                                         contingencies)
                                                                             installation of M&E equipment.

                                                                             Provide adequate freeboard, installation of
41               Spandaryan                   34.0              127.522
                                                                             M&E equipment.
                                                                             Flush out dam drainage curtain; provide
42              Angechakot                    34.0               39.539      ventilation & lighting in gallery, installation of
                                                                             M&E equipment.
                                                                             Provide adequate freeboard, repair upstream
43                 Tolors                     37.0               92.661
                                                                             facing slabs, installation of M&E equipment.
                                                                             Provide adequate freeboard, installation of
44                 Shamb                      25.0               32.499
                                                                             M&E equipment.
                                                                             Rehabilitation of dam body, mechanical
                                                                             equipment, spillway, construction of
45                 Kechut                    1400.0            1610.124
                                                                             additional spillway, installation of M&E
                                                                             equipment.
                                                                             Open channel in partially constructed dam
46                  Kaps                       430               26.064
                                                                             body
                                                                             Rehabilitation of spillway and mechanical
47                Yerevan                      60               212.947
                                                                             equipment, installation of M&E equipment.

                   Total                     3,508            3,699.278
     1/
          During project implementation it was decided to change these works by works on Upper Sasnashen dam.

     Component B. Dam Safety Sustainability
             Sub-component B.1. All the Armenian dams were covered either by DSP or IDSP
     II. Both projects provided for procurement of some communication equipment and early
     warning equipment ­ sirens, etc. However the scope of those activities was different
     under DSP and IDSP II.
            Short wave radio stations were installed at the dams rehabilitated under DSP, and
     alarm sirens were installed in the settlements located within inundated areas of those
     dams. DSP did not provide funds for additional radio equipment and other emergency
     preparedness equipment for effective implementation of EPPs. In order to fill that gap,
     IDSP II provided for additional communication equipment to central and regional offices
     of the Ministry of Emergency Situations (MOES), dam sites and WSA responsible for
     dam O&M. It was also provided to install early warning systems (sirens and support parts
     ­ cables, pipes, etc.) in the settlements located within reservoir inundation areas.
             The following Table describes the types of equipment which was procured and
     installed/transferred.
                 Table 3. Procured and Installed Communication and Safety Equipment
     For the Ministry of Emergency Situations:                                                                  Number


                                                               35
                                                                                           of pieces
Movable shortwave (SW) radio stations of SR type                                                  7
Movable ultra shortwave (USW) radio stations                                                     61
Stationary USW radio stations                                                                    14
Hand-held USW radio stations                                                                    300
Devices for connection between SW and USW radio stations (Interlink)                             10
Sirens for installation in settlements located within inundation areas of 78 reservoirs,
                                                                                                116
where no sirens were installed under DSP
For the Dam O&M Agency:
Stationary SW radio stations of VR type                                                           8
Stationary SW radio stations (8 pcs for offices and 23 pcs for dam sites)                        31
Stationary USW radio stations                                                                    26
Hand-held USW radio stations                                                                    171


        Sub-component B.2
         TA and Training. TA implied preparation of regulations and new procedures
however this activity was transferred to the MCC's Program, because it envisaged hiring
international consultants for reviewing the Water Code and all associated regulations,
including procedures for dam operation. Thus, in order to avoid duplications, this
institutional support activity was not done under the IDSP II, and only training of dam
operators and provision of the O&M heavy equipment was delivered.
        Adequate training was aimed at providing sustainability to the project by assuring
that personnel in charge of dams at all levels - including technicians and engineers - had
the required technical knowhow to perform their duties efficiently. The first stage of
training for dam operation staff (conducted under DSP during the technical transfer of
rehabilitated dams to the Dam O&M Agency) was continued under IDSP II, when the
Armenian dam operation staff passed international training. The training was carried out
in the United Kingdom by Mot MacDonald. The training lasted for 10 days and was
attended by nine members of the Dam O&M Agency and PIU. The following activities
took place during the training:
·       Workshop on UK and international legislation and policy and organizations of
        dam safety
·       Workshop on operation and maintenance policy
·       Workshop on floods and dam safety
·       Workshop on dam breach analysis and inundation area mapping
·       Visit to Dam Management Department of Severn Trent Water company
·       Visit to three dams to look at dam operation and maintenance




                                                 36
       O&M Equipment. The estimated cost of this component was US$1.4 million,
however later it was increased up to US$1.68 million. The following table shows the
types and quantity of procured heavy equipment.

                     Table 4. Procure and Provided O&M Equipment
                      Type of heavy equipment                       Number of procured
                                                                         units
Excavator 87.75 h.p., bucket capacity 0.65 m3                                 3
Excavator 80 h.p., bucket capacity 0.28 m3                                    3
Caterpillar bulldozer, 180 h.p.                                               3
Caterpillar bulldozer, 100 h.p.                                               3
Truck crane, 216 h.p., loading capacity 12 t                                  3
Dump truck, loading capacity 10.2 t, body length 8.2 m                        2
Movable workshop                                                              1
Backhoe loaders, 97 h.p., bucket capacities 1.0 m3 and 0.25 m3                3
Total                                                                        21

        Overall, only 21 units of heavy equipment (instead of planned 34) were procured
under IDSP II at a cost of US$1.79 million against the estimated US$1.68. This happened
mainly due to the market price increase of the needed equipment and underestimated cost
at the project design.
        Sub-component B.3. All planned 16 dam access roads were rehabilitated enabling
timely access and provision of safety measures under emergencies. Fifteen of these roads
were rehabilitated under the project and one was rehabilitated with the community
financial participation.


Component C. Project Management
        This component covered: (i) incremental operating costs for the PIU; (ii) carrying
out of monitoring and evaluation activities for the Project; and (iii) training and TA.
        TA under this component implied, as in was also required under DSP, to hire an
international dam safety expert that would be responsible among other things for the
following: (i) regular and independent review of dam rehabilitation activities
implemented under IDSP II; (ii) continuous review and revision of methods and
approaches applied during project implementation; (iii) provision of proposals on project
implementation.
       Initially that task was assigned to Mr. G.M.Salmon, who provided similar services
under DSP. The contract was signed on September 23, 2005. After Mr. Salmon's death
PIU hired another expert ­ Mr. Alan Imrie, Geol. Doct. as a substitute. Mr. Imrie made




                                                37
two visits to review works implemented under IDSP II and also rehabilitation works of
Marmarik dam, which was implemented under DSP.

4. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

        Kaps dam. The only dam where significant planned rehabilitation works were not
done was the Kaps dam15. During implementation, there was an agreement between the
GOA and the Bank to transfer the rehabilitation of Kaps dam to MCC who got involved
in the I&D sector starting 2006. Hence, it was not upgraded as envisaged because it was
supposed that a dam would be built under the MCC program. However, MCC has
recently redefined its program in Armenia, and not only Kaps but all dam works are now
excluded, so the solution to protect 800 of the 120,000 people targeted at appraisal of
IDSP II is still pending and this target protecting people downstream the targeted dams
was achieved for about 99 percent.
        Communication equipment. Almost all the activities proposed under the original
project documents have been completed by the Closing Date ­ March 31, 2009, except
for one - procurement and installation of early warning equipment. The reason for delay
was the difficulty in reaching an agreement with the MOES on the early warning
equipment required for implementation of the EPPs. The agreement with MOES was
reached only in July 2008. Although the tender for designing of early warning equipment
installation was issued right after reaching the agreement, it appeared impossible to
complete the design tender, installation and testing before the project Closing Date ­
March 31, 2009.
        Considering the above, the GOA asked IDA to extend the Closing date by nine
month: from March 31, 2009 to December 31, 2009. IDA gave its approval through the
letter dated March 24, 2009.




15
   During appraisal it was planned that Kaps dam would be upgraded through investment of estimated US$430,000 to
be used for constructing an open canal in the partially constructed dam body. IDSP II invested only US$26,064 in
improving the outlets and handed over the major works to MCC to avoid conflicting activities being considered at the
time.


                                                        38
39
                                                                 Attachment to Annex 5
                                                 Non-official translation from Armenian
                              REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
               MINISTRY OF TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATION
                            FIRST DEPUTY MINISTER
                                                                          N 03/15/2908-10
                                                                             May 17, 2010
To:    Mr. Aristomene Varoudakis
       Country Manager
       The World Bank, Yerevan Office


       Dear Mr. Varoudakis,


       The Ministry of Territorial Administration of the Republic of Armenia together
with the State Committee for Water Management have reviewed the Irrigation Dam
Safety Project II (hereinafter the Project) Completion and Results Report prepared by the
South Caucasus Country Unit of Europe and Central Asia Sustainable Development
Department of the World Bank and would like to state the following:
        The Report provides detailed analysis of the Project implementation and
completion basing on the Project Development Objectives and Main Indicators. It also
mentions the main obstacles which had their impact on the project implementation and its
results as well the ways to overcome those.
         The Report provides detailed assessment of Project activities along with
justifications. There are also related conclusions which are developed based on the
project results.


                                    Sincerely yours,
                                       (signature)

                                    Vache Terteryan




                                           40
                       Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents


1. Country Assistance Strategy for Armenia. July 31, 1997, N16988-AM
2. Country Assistance Strategy for Armenia. April 25, 2001, N22111-AM
3. Country Assistance Strategy for Armenia. June 30, 2004, N28991-AM
4. Country Partnership Strategy for Armenia. June 11, 2009, N48222-AM
5. Project Appraisal Document for the Dam Safety Project, May 25, 1999, N19362-AM
6. Project Appraisal Document for the Irrigation Development Project, August 7, 2001,
   Report N 22599-AM
7. Project Appraisal Document for the Irrigation Dam Safety II Project, May 10, 2004,
   N29000-AM
8. Project Paper for Additional Financing for the Irrigation Development Project, July 2,
   2007, Report N40171-AM
9. Project Paper for the Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency Project, July 9, 2009,
   N49331-AM
10. Implementation Completion Report for the Irrigation Development Project,
    December 15, 2009, N:ICR00001145
11. Government Decree N92, dated February 8, 2001, on establishment of the State
    Committee of Water Management.
12. Government Decree N577, dated December 15, 1994, on establishment of the Water
    Sector Development and Institutional Improvements Project Implementation Unit.
13. Republic of Armenia Construction Norms.
14. Environmental Management Plan for the Dam Safety Project.
15. Economic Analysis Working Files
16. Aide Memoires of the Supervision Missions from 2004 to 2009
17. Project Status Reports and ISRs from 2004 to 2009
18. PIU Progress reports from 2004 to 2009
19. Consultants field studies/reports
20. Borrower's Completion Report




                                           41
MAP




42
43
