                                                                                                                93832
                                                                                                             May 7, 2012




The New Landscape of Armenia's Agriculture
Vigen Sargsyan, Sr External Affairs Officer in the Armenia
World Bank Office, offers this story.
                                                                  Photo Gallery
Irrigation is slowly changing the landscape of Armenian
agriculture and improving the lives of Armenian farmers.
Instead of growing wheat or barley, thousands of the
country's small farmers have been planting crops that need
more water but ultimately yield more cash. The transformation
comes thanks to investments supported by the World Bank
over many years in the country's irrigation and water rights
systems.

"People started cultivating higher value crops, they              Related Links
established vegetable gardens, vineyards and new orchards,"
says Misak Metoyan, engineer of the Water Users                   The World Bank in Armenia
Association (WUA) in Artashat, Ararat region.                     Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency
                                                                  Project - Additional Financing (P126509)
It has been a long and arduous task. A vast system of             (October 2011)
irrigation that watered giant collective farms regardless of      Irrigation Development Project -
cost in Soviet days now efficiently and for a reasonable price    Additional Financing (P105171) (July
delivers water to hundreds of thousands of small, private         2007)

plots around the country growing different crops with different   Irrigation Dam Safety Project - 2
water needs.                                                      (P088499) (June 2004-Dec 2009)
                                                                  Irrigation Development Project
Achieving this has involved many steps. First, irrigation         (P055022) (Aug 2001-March 2009)
infrastructure in imminent danger of collapse was fixed.
                                                                  Irrigation Dam Safety Project (P064879)
                                                                  (June 1999_Sept 2009)
"We asked the World Bank to work on sections that were in
dangerous condition and threatened to leave Ararat Valley         Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
without any irrigation water," says Adibek Ghazaryan, director    (P008277) (Dec 1994-May 2001)
of the water projects' implementation unit (PIU).                 Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency
                                                                  Project (P116681) (July 28, 2009-June
                       Dams in danger of bursting were           30, 2013)
                       repaired. So were selected canals         Interview with Guiseppe Fantozzi,
                       and wells in several areas of the         Senior Operations Officer, ARD (Video)
                       country. Some pumping stations
                                                                 Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency
                       were put back in use. And work            Project (IREP) )Video)
                       started on a new legal framework for
                                                                 Armenia IREP Team Twice Branded as
                       water management. World Bank
                                                                 Winner
                       investment in this initial phase totaled
Misak Metoyan
                       $ 76 million. "These successes are
due to the government's commitment to revive its agriculture sector, as well as the strong partnership
between the (World) Bank and other partners, notably the Millenium Challenge Corporation Armenia
(MCCA), whose programs reinforced one another."

In a second phase, 27 less decrepit and dangerous dams and their connecting irrigation canals were
repaired. , Among the numerous benefits is the safety of over half a million local residents. As a result,
reservoirs hold more water and more farmland is irrigated. Forty four water users associations (WUA)
were established to insure equal access to irrigation water. Measures were taken to reduce energy and
water losses.

                         The only existing bilateral agreement between Armenia and Turkey involves
                         joint use of Arax River water. In 2003, a new intake facility was built along the
                         canal shunting water to Armenia, almost doubling its share of water used from
                         27 to 53 cubic meters per second.

                         With irrigation infrastructure stabilized, a plan for water users and service areas
                         was created, with corresponding, regulated water user companies. Three
                         thousand kilometers of irrigation canals were mapped, as well as 18,000 km of
Adibek Ghazaryan         internal canals, 4,000 pumping stations and 2,200 deep and artesian wells.

"This plan shows me whose land this is, its size and location. I can see who the owners are and whether
they have a (water) contract or not," says Tigran Ishkhanyan, the PIU water resource management
specialist, pointing to an electronic map.

                         Thanks to streamlining, there are now two state agencies overseeing irrigation
                         networks and systems instead of 13. As a result, water is more efficiently
                         managed and used. Over the years, increased efficiency and transparency has
                         decreased farmers' wariness of the new system and the need to pay for water
                         that once was free.

                         "In the past, irrigation water fees collected in 15 communities of this sub-region
                         were about 10-15%. In 2011, the company collected 78% in fees," says Ashot
Tigran Ishkhanyan        Gevorgyan executive director of 'Arax' WUA in Armavir region.

Water users associations currently irrigate almost 130,000 hectares in 600 communities.

                         Investments have also been made in building new, gravity-fed irrigation systems
                         that do not need pumps and save a lot of money on fuel—almost $ 35
                         million.As the global financial crisis hit, the World Bank invested emergency
                         funds for renovation of around 90 km of sections of the main Armavir and Talin,
                         helping to create 12,000 temporary jobs. As a result, water losses in two
                         important main canals have reduced from almost 23 percent to 7 percent. That
                         allows 7,000 more hectares to be irrigated.

Ashot Gevorgyan           A follow-up project has already been topped up so that more canals in six
                          provinces can be repaired, encouraging further agricultural development and the
possibility of increased incomes for Armenia's farmers.
