                                   Document of
                                The World Bank


                                                      Report No: ICR00002727




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-43720)

                                     ON A

                                   CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 35.1 MILLION

                       (US$55.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF UGANDA

                                   FOR THE

      LOCAL GOVERNMENT MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES DELIVERY

                ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN (APL) PROJECT

                             IN SUPPORT OF THE

      PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REFORM PROGRAM AND THE
         DECENTRALIZATION POLICY STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK




                                 June 25, 2013




Urban Development and Services (AFTU1)
Country Department AFCE1
Africa
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective June 1, 2013)

                    Currency Unit = Uganda Shillings (UShs)
                           U Shs 1.00 = 0.0004 US$
                            US$ 1.00 = 2,595 UShs

                                FISCAL YEAR
                              July 1   –   June 30

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL       Adaptable Program Loan
BoU       Bank of Uganda
CAO       Chief Administrative Officer
CBG       Capacity Building Grants
CDD       Community Driven Development
CG        Central Government
CSO       Civil Society Organization
DDPG      Decentralization Development Partner Group
DPSF      Decentralization Policy Strategic Framework
DSWG      Decentralization Sector Working Group
EFMP II   Second Economic & Financial Management Project
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR      Economic Internal Rate of Return
ESMF      Environmental and Social Management Framework
FDS       Fiscal Decentralization Strategy
FINMAP    Financial Management and Accountability Program
FMR       Financial Monitoring Report
GGACS     Good Governance and Anti-Corruption Strategy
GoU       Government of Uganda
HLG       Higher Local Government
HPPG      Harmonized Participatory Planning Guide
ICT       Information, Communication and Technology
IDA       International Development Association
IDP       Internally Displaced Person
IFMIS     Integrated Financial Management Information System
IFR       Interim Financial Report
IRR       Internal Rate of Return
LDG       Local Development Grants
LG        Local Government
LGDP      Local Government Development Program
LGFC      Local Government Finance Commission
LGMSD     Local Government Management and Service Delivery
LGSIP     Local Government Sector Investment Plan
LLG       Lower Local Government
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MDAs     Ministries, Departments and Agencies
MoFPED   Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
MoLG     Ministry of Local Government
MTEF     Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NEMA     National Environment Management Authority
NIMES    National Integrated Monitoring and Evaluation System
NPA      National Planning Authority
NPV      Net Present Value
O&M      Operations and Maintenance
OAG      Office of the Auditor General
OPM      Office of the Prime Minister
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCU      Program Coordination Unit
PDO      Project Development Objective
PDU      Procurement Disposal Unit
PEAP     Poverty Eradication Action Plan
PEFA     Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PFM      Public Financial Management
PIP      Project Implementation Plan
PPDA     Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets Authority
PRDP     Peace, Recovery Development Program
PRSC     Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PSM      Public Sector Management
PST      Project Support Team
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
RPF      Resettlement Policy Framework
SIL      Specific Investment Loan
SWG      Sector Working Group
TPC      Technical Planning Committees
UJAS     Uganda Joint Assistance Strategy
USMID    Uganda Support to Municipal Infrastructure Development




                Vice President:        Makhtar Diop
                Country Director:      Philippe Dongier
                Sector Director:       Jamal Saghir
                Sector Manager:        R. Mukami Kariuki
                Project Team Leader:   Martin Onyach-Olaa
                ICR Team Leader:       Jonas Ingemann Parby
                                           REPUBLIC OF UGANDA

                          Local Government Management Service Delivery


                                                      CONTENTS

Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph


  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 21
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 22
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 29
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 35
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 37
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 38
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 39
  Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...................... 49
  Annex 9. List of Central and Local Government IFMIS Sites .................................... 50
  Annex 10. LGMSD – APL Triggers – and status at project closure ............................ 52
  Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 53

  MAP

  IBRD 40134




                                                             iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Local Government
                                                                          Management and
Country:                Uganda                  Project Name:
                                                                          Services Delivery
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P090867                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-43720
ICR Date:               06/25/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                          UGANDA
Original Total
                        XDR 35.10M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 34.98M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 35.10M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Local Government
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/18/2006     Effectiveness:             11/19/2008        11/19/2008
Appraisal:            10/12/2007     Restructuring(s):                            09/28/2011
Approval:             12/18/2007     Mid-term Review:           11/19/2010        11/15/2010
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2011        12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:



                                                v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     20                  20
Other social services                                                  8                   8
Sub-national government administration                                72                  72


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                                      29                  29
Gender                                                                14                  14
Municipal finance                                                     14                  14
Municipal governance and institution building                         14                  14
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                      29                  29
procurement

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                         Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Philippe Dongier                     John McIntire
Sector Manager:            Rosemary Mukami Kariuki              Jaime M. Biderman
Project Team Leader:       Martin Onyach-Olaa                   Lance Morrell
ICR Team Leader:           Jonas Ingemann Parby
ICR Primary Author:        Jonas Ingemann Parby

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Strengthen the ability of the MDAs and LGs to plan and manage resources in
collaboration with communities for service delivery


                                                vi
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally      Actual Value
                                             Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                               approval         Target      Completion or
                                              documents)        Values       Target Years
                  % of LGs in the Northern Uganda meeting the minimum conditions to access the
Indicator 1 :
                  LDG
Value
quantitative or   30% (for FY04-5)         85%                               88% (FY10-11)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/18/2008                 12/31/2011                           12/31/2012
Comments          Achieved (target exceeded). Latest available figure. The actual value is 85% if
(incl. %          using the total number of LGs in Northern Uganda following the creation of new
achievement)      LGs in 2010 (55 instead of 38 LGs)
                  % of LGs which have computerized financial management system complete the
Indicator 2 :
                  final accounts within three months after the end of the fiscal year
Value
quantitative or 0                           90%                               100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/18/2008                    12/31/2011                        12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved (target exceeded).
achievement)
                % of Higher LGs registering at least 20% increase in own source revenue from
Indicator 3 :
                the baseline year of 2005/06
Value
quantitative or 10%                         45%                               56%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/18/2008                    12/31/2011                        12/31/2012
Comments
                Achieved. Latest available figures (FY10-11). The actual target value represents
(incl. %
                the improvements for a total of 81 LGs (data available), including new LGs.
achievement)
                At least 75% of the LDG is invested in education, health, water, and roads
Indicator 4 :
                sectors, consistent with the PEAP
Value
quantitative or 65%                         80%                               85%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/18/2008                    12/31/2011                        12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved (target exceeded).
achievement)




                                                vii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                approval                        Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                       Target Years
                  % of LGs that have been computerized for at least one year completing bank
Indicator 1 :
                  reconciliation within two months
Value
(quantitative     70                         100                                  100
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/18/2008                  12/31/2011                           12/31/2012
Comments          Achieved. Please note that the results framework in the PAD did not include
(incl. %          targets for the last two years of the project. The original target value above is
achievement)      therefore the value for 2009.
Indicator 2 :     % of LGs in Northern Uganda with at least x% of the approved staffing filled
Value
(quantitative     35                         65                                   32
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/18/2008                 12/31/2011                        12/31/2012
                  Not achieved. Figures are for FY11-12. The result is 18% using the total number
Comments
                  of LGs following the creation of new LGs (55 instead of 38 in Northern
(incl. %
                  Uganda). PAD results framework did not include targets for 2011/12 - target
achievement)
                  value applied is for 2009.
                  % of LGs which are collecting property rates for at least 60% of the valuation
Indicator 3 :
                  rolls
Value
(quantitative     0                          55                                   43
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/18/2008                   12/31/2011                          12/31/2012
Comments          Partially achieved. Please note that the results framework in the PAD did not
(incl. %          include targets for the last two years of the project. The original target value
achievement)      above is therefore the value for 2009.
Indicator 4 :     % of LLGs using the Harmonized Participatory Planning Guide (HPPG)
Value
(quantitative     60                         85                                   100
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/18/2008                  12/31/2011                           12/31/2012
Comments          Achieved. Target exceeded. Please note that the results framework in the PAD
(incl. %          did not include targets for the last two years of the project. The original target
achievement)      value above is therefore the value for 2009.




                                                   viii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                         IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1    03/19/2008        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     0.00
                                                   Moderately
  2    06/25/2008        Satisfactory                                             0.00
                                                 Unsatisfactory
 3     11/20/2008        Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory             0.00
 4     05/28/2009        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    5.27
 5     12/01/2009        Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory             7.37
 6     06/10/2010        Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory            17.63
 7     03/04/2011        Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory            28.17
 8     07/05/2011        Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory            30.51
 9     01/30/2012        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   39.50
 10    07/30/2012        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   45.48
 11    03/20/2013        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   53.22


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     A level 2 restructuring was
                                                     completed in September 2011.
                                                     The Financial Agreement was
                                                     revised to extend the closing
                                                     date from December 31, 2011 to
                                                     December 31, 2012. The main
                                                     reason for the extension was the
 09/28/2011       N       S     MS           36.38
                                                     delay in acquiring
                                                     Parliamentary approval for the
                                                     project. The project was
                                                     approved by Board on
                                                     December 18, 2007 and became
                                                     effective on November 19,
                                                     2008.




                                         ix
I. Disbursement Profile




                          x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country Context
Uganda’s population in 2008 was 29.6 million people. Since 1986, economic growth has average
7 percent and poverty level fell from 57 percent in FY93 to 24.5 percent in FY2010. Over the
past two decades Uganda has established a strong record of prudent macro-economic
management and structural reforms. Furthermore, after more than 20 years of insurgency, the
conflict affecting Northern Uganda had significantly reduced in scope and intensity, and
Government had initiated activities to re-establish full security in the greater Northern Region.

Sector Background
Uganda had implemented a policy of decentralization since 1992 as a means of democratization,
improved service delivery and poverty reduction. The policy of decentralization is enshrined in
the Constitution and elaborated in the Local Government Act (LGA) Cap 243. Since October
2000, the International Development Agency (IDA) through the first and second Local
Government Development Program (LGDP I & II) supported Uganda in the implementation of
the decentralization policy. The implementation of the decentralization policy encountered a
number of challenges including (i) the large share of conditional grants and low local
government own revenues limiting local government autonomy; (ii) growing dependency on
central government transfers; (iii) inadequate downward accountability; and (iv) poor quality of
services and constraints for service delivery in local governments in Northern Uganda
experiencing insurgency.

To provide a more comprehensive institutional framework for addressing the above challenges
and contribute to deepening the realization of the decentralization policy intentions, Government
of Uganda (GoU) formulated a Decentralization Policy Strategic Framework (DPSF) and Local
Government Sector Investment Plan (LGSIP) in 2006. The DPSF provides a structure for
coordination of efforts aimed at deepening decentralization. The LGSIP, on the other hand,
details local government sector strategic investment plans, priorities and budgets in six thematic
areas: local service delivery; political decentralization; administrative decentralization; fiscal
decentralization; good governance; and Local Economic Development (LED). In addition the
Government formed the Decentralization Sub-Sector Working Group (D-SWG) and
subsequently, the Public Sector Management (PSM) Sector Working Group. Finally,
Government had also prepared a Financial Management and Accountability Program (FINMAP)
to support the Public Financial Management (PFM) Reform Program which intended to address
public financial management issues in both the central and LGs.

Rationale for Bank Assistance
The Local Government Management and Service Delivery Project (LGMSDP) was designed as
the third phase of Bank involvement in supporting decentralization reforms in Uganda –
following the Local Government Development Project (LGDP I, starting in 2000), and LGDP 2
(2003-2007). Furthermore, LGSMD was building on key lessons and insights from the




                                                1
implementation of the EFMP projects – particularly on with regards to support to public financial
management reforms1.

Through the introduction of the DPSF, the development of the Local Government Sector
Investment Plan (LGSIP), and the passing of the FINMAP program, Government had established
a coherent sectoral framework for support for the next stage in further enhancing decentralization
reforms. LGMSD was formulated as Bank’s support to the LGSIP. The project aimed to
harmonize service delivery at the local level and align sectors and increase coordination in
support of sub-national service delivery. Support to Government’s implementation of the PFM
reform program was a crosscutting measure to this effect. The project also was integrated in the
deepened donor coordination structure in the decentralization sector – both through the SWG and
through the PFM Development Partner group. The added value of Bank involvement in this
context was particularly in the following areas: (i) providing policy advice and implementation
support for decentralization in a comprehensive manner, including in overall decentralization
reforms, and (ii) expertise and experience in design and implementation of IFMIS reforms.
LGMSD was coherent and consistent with the Uganda CAS, specifically contributing to Pillar 4
Good Governance and to the Strategic Objective 4.2: Strengthened Public Sector Management
and Accountability.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The development objective of the project was to strengthen the ability of the MDAs and LGs to
plan and manage resources in collaboration with communities for service delivery. The project
outcome indicators were:
       • % of LGs in the Northern Uganda meeting the minimum conditions to access the
          LDG
       • % of LGs which have computerized financial management system complete the final
          accounts within three months after the end of the fiscal year
       • % of Higher LGs registering at least 20% increase in own source revenue from the
          baseline year of 2005/06
       • At least 75% of the LDG is invested in education, health, water, and roads sectors,
          consistent with the PEAP

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved) and Key Indicators
The PDO and the indicators were not revised, but due to the increase in number of districts,
Government opted to report both on the original indicators as well as on the indicators with
revised values since the overall percentages could be affected by the calculation of old versus
new districts.




1
  The LGDP I was designed as a pilot with the development objectives to test the feasibility of implementing constitutional
and legal mandates with respect to decentralized service provision and the evolution of the development budget and to build
the capacity of a sub-set of LGs for improved service delivery, accountability and transparency. The LGDP II was designed
to deliver discretionary funds to cover all higher and lower level local governments based on a philosophy of bringing
development funds as close as possible to beneficiaries. Parallel to the LGDP II, the Bank also financed the second
Economic and Financial Management Project (EFMP II) whose objectives were to improve the effectiveness of public
expenditure management processes.


                                                               2
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The primary target groups of the project were (i) the local governments2 and their institutions
and constituencies, and (ii) MDAs and local governments for Component 1 on strengthening
public financial management systems. In addition, private sector contractors benefitted from
contracts managed and implemented under LDG and CDD.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The project had three components with a total cost of US$198.7m of which US$55m was an IDA
Credit and US$143.7m was financed by GoU.

Component 1 - Support to the Public Financial Management Systems Reform Program
(US$20.1 million - IDA) - This component supported Public Financial Management at central
and local government levels to ensure the efficient, effective, transparent and accountable use of
public resources as a basis for poverty eradication and improved service delivery. It had three
subcomponents: (i) financial management systems in central departments and agencies, in order
to develop accountable and transparent institutional and management arrangements for effective
performance, as well as expanding the current users in the central ministries; (ii) support to
MoLG and Local Governments (LGs) in order develop a sustainable capacity in LG budget
formulation, financial management and control, transparent and comprehensive financial
reporting and training in use of systems; and (iii) management support, in order to improve the
capacity of MoFPED to manage reform programs and facilitate the overall management and
coordination of the FINMAP activities.

Component 2 - Support to the Local Government Sector Investment Plans (US$143.7 million -
GoU and US$37.2 million - IDA) – The component had four subcomponents: (i) local
development grants; (ii) community driven development (CDD) grants; (iii) strengthening local
governments; and (iv)support to the LGs in Northern Uganda.

(i) Local Development Grants (US$129.4 million - GoU). The LDG, which was piloted under
LGDP I and rolled-out nationally under LGDP II was mainstreamed and funded by GoU under
LGSMSD. The LDG was used to strengthen the capacity of eligible local governments to
implement subprojects consisting of local infrastructure. The LDG was disbursed against
appraised and approved subprojects drawn from the LGs rolling developments plans. The access
criteria, co-funding requirements (for LGs), investment menu and performance assessment were
detailed in the LDG Operational Manual. The Government maintained the existing systems
(operational manual, M&E reporting format, accountability format, horizontal and vertical fund
sharing formula between LGs/communities, funds flow mechanism, etc.) which were developed
under LGDPI/II with minor adjustments in line with the LGMSD objective and focus of
strengthening planning and managing resources for service delivery.

(ii) Community Driven Development (CDD) Grants (US$8.1 million - IDA). The objective of the
CDD grant was to facilitate the interface between the lowest level of local governments and
communities; empower communities to demand better services from their local governments;
strengthen participatory planning processes; strengthen transparency in the local government

2
 With the creation of new districts in 2010, the total number of beneficiary LGs increased from 80 to 112.
Similarly, the number of LLGs increased from 942 to 1147.


                                                         3
service delivery process; and create a harmonized platform within the local government service
delivery system through which support to communities will be provided3.

(iii) Support to the Local Governments in Northern Uganda (US$21.9 million - IDA). The
subcomponent provided support to the local government component of the Government’s Peace,
Recovery and Development Program (PRDP) and re-establish state presence in the 38 districts in
Northern Uganda. The project provided resources for construction and renovations of lower
level government offices and staff houses, equipment/vehicles, engineering supervision and
monitoring.

(iv) Strengthening Local Governments (US$14.3 million - GoU and US$2.2 million - IDA). The
subcomponent supported the local government capacity building activities through GoU’s
Capacity Building Grants (CBGs). The project supported the following areas: (i) Capacity
Building Grants (CBG) to local governments to enable them to - cascade capacity to LLGs,
strengthen local governments in the North, facilitate career development of LG staff throughout
HLGs and LLGs4, and to develop skills through the use of generic training modules (GTM);
(ii) certification and professionalization of select senior LG staff with a view to developing a
nationally available group of professional local government managers; and (iii) strategic support
for local government capacity building which included strategic supply-driven capacity building
to LGs, capacity building for MoLG staff; re-orientation of MDAs; support of thematic research
in local governance and support to the Capacity Building Unit.

Component 3 - Institutional and Policy Support (US$2.7 million - IDA)
The component supported the management activities associated with the implementation of the
project, the establishment and implementation of a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) system and the preparation of the next phase of the project. Activities included:
(i) project implementation support; (ii) monitoring and evaluation; (iii) environmental and social
management monitoring; (iv) project audit; (v) procurement audit; and (vi) support to the
implementation of the Good Governance and Anti-Corruption Strategy (GGACS) for Local
Governments in Uganda.

1.6 Revised Components
The project components were not revised nor were the objectives changed.

1.7 Other significant changes
A level 2 restructuring was completed in September 2011 and approved by Management. The
Financial Agreement was revised to extend the closing date from December 31, 2011 to
December 31, 2012. The main reason for the extension was the delay in acquiring Parliamentary
approval for the project. The project was approved by Board on December 18, 2007 and only
became effective on November 19, 2008. The project was therefore delayed by 12 months.


3
  The CDD grants was funded through: (i) GoU through the 30% of the LDG for lower local governments which was
previously the Parish IPF, amounting to US$19.0 million; and (ii) the IDA credit amounting to US$5 million. In addition
the beneficiary communities were expected to make contributions in a manner appropriate to them (cash, kind, time etc.).
4
  HLGs is another term for districts, i.e. the highest level of local government, whereas LLGs describes the secondary level
of LGs within each district, i.e. sub counties and town councils. Both HLGs and LLGs benefitted from the LDG as per the
allocation formula.


                                                               4
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Analytical
As the Bank had been providing support for decentralization since late 1990s, and specifically
through LDGP I and II since 2000, there was a clear rationale and analytical foundation for the
Bank’s continuous intervention in decentralization. In particular, the background analysis in the
PAD included key lessons from LGDP I and LGDP II as well EFMP II, and provided a clear
outline for the key challenges for continuous decentralization reforms. The analysis also
integrated lessons from other components and project, in particular the following lessons:
(i) institutional reform requires considerable political will and should be carried out in a
sustainable manner; (ii) projects with an institutional change focus that also include
infrastructure investments must be carefully designed to ensure appropriate sequencing and
incentives to achieve institutional reforms; (iii) project ownership reflected in participatory
design and implementation arrangements that integrate with core functions are key to success;
(iv) the need to improve community access to information on local government budgets;
(v) participation in investment decisions; and (vi) integration of community planning into local
government planning and budgeting cycles will result in better oversight of standards and
quality by the technical staff at the local level. The project was prepared in consultation with
development partners and with the relevant sector ministries, in particular Ministry of Local
Government (MoLG) and Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MoFPED) – the two lead
agencies.

Assessment of Project Design
The design of the operation and its components was sound and relevant, and reflected the context
of the ongoing reforms in Uganda and the policy commitments made by Government through the
passing of the LGSIP and the DPSF. The project in total aimed at addressing ten different reform
areas5. In this context, the choice of APL as a lending instrument was rational and well justified.
A two phase, 10 year Adaptable Program Loan (APL) was intended to allow sufficient time to
achieve the envisaged institutional reforms for deepening the decentralization process, but it also
could serve as an exit strategy in case commitment to decentralization reforms would dissipate.

The Local Development Grant support was built on substantial experience under LGDG 1 and
LGDG 2. A particularly useful approach in the context of the relative low level of per capita
grants available per LG was to encourage LGs to enhance and sustain existing infrastructure to
make it fully functional and sustainable rather than constructing new infrastructure. Under
Component 2, the Government introduced a new mechanism, a CDD grant, within the overall
Local Development Grant structure. The aim of introducing the CDD grant was to strengthen the
interface between citizens at the lowest local Government level. However, in the design of the
project, more attention could have been given with regards to the risks associated with this



5
 (i) Human Resources Development/ Management, (ii) Development Planning and Resource Allocation, (iii) Financial
Management and Audits, (iv) Fiscal Decentralization Strategy (FDS), (v) Local Government Revenues, (vi) Management
and Sustainability of Social Investments, (vii) Local Government in Conflict Areas, (viii) Support to the National Anti-
Corruption Strategy at Local Level, (ix) Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), and (x) Institutional Strengthening of MoLG.


                                                             5
approach and the existing capacity at the level of the implementation agency to manage and
implement this new modality.

As mentioned above, the project was designed as the first part of a two-phased APL with
substantial Government counterpart funding6. The GoU contribution to this program (total GoU
financing amounting to 72% of LGMSD) demonstrated Government’s strong commitment to and
ownership of the overall reform program and to the LDG specifically as an intergovernmental
fiscal transfer mechanism.

The overall PDO was consistent with the project components and the proposed activities and
outputs. The PDO reflected the integration of one component focusing partially on MDAs
(Component 1) and the share of activities focusing on LGs 7 . The project design was well
balanced in terms of infrastructure investments and institutional strengthening activities aiming
at sustaining outcomes. The implementation arrangements were clear and justified and were
consistent with the project objectives.

Assessment of Risks
The project provided a comprehensive assessment of potential risks, and risk mitigation
measures were appropriately applied. Only two areas were assessed as high risk: (i) lack of
capacity in MoLG to support the roll out of IFMIS to local governments; and (ii) reduction in
local revenues and creation of new districts will compromise local governments’ ability to meet
co-financing requirements and sustainability. Beyond fiduciary risks, the project at design stage
did not include specific risk management measures on the CDD Grant. The overall risks
assessment of Government support to decentralization policy and commitment was justified at
the time of appraisal, but risks with regards stagnation in financing made available for local
government were not envisaged at design stage.

Based on the observations above, the ICR rates the quality at entry as satisfactory.

2.2 Implementation
Overall implementation of the project was sound. Missions were conducted on a regular basis
and there was consistent coordination and follow up with Government and development partners
in the SWG. As outlined in section 1.7, the project closing date was extended by one year. The
midterm review was conducted as per the legal covenant - 24 months after project effectiveness.
The midterm review recommended that the project should be extended by 12 months to allow for
completion of activities. The MTR also provided valuable input for managing the
implementation delays under component 1 (mainly result of discussions between the Bank and
the Government with regards to the appropriate technological solution for the roll out of the
IFMIS), and Component 2 (particularly with regards to the implementation for the Northern
Uganda sub component and the CDD grant), a clear road map for implementation was agreed.

6
  The first APL (LGMSD) totaled US$198.7m, of which US$143.7m was financed by GoU (all towards financing the LDG),
and US$55m was financed by the Bank. The second APL was budgeted at US$321.3m, of which US$206.3m GoU and
US$115m by the Bank.
7
  The project integrated two different activities – PFM and support to overall decentralization reforms programs. While
complementary (due to the fact that PFM reforms also involved the roll out of IFMIS to Local Governments), the activities
were designed to be coordinated and managed by two different entities – MoLG and MoFPED due to the mandate and role
of each of these institutions. This, however, did not affect project implementation.


                                                              6
The project was a problem project at one time during the early project implementation due to low
disbursement rates resulting from delays under Component 1 and 2.

The implementation of the project (component 2 and 3) was affected by overall external changes
and policy shifts:

Creation of new districts: In July 2010, GoU established 32 new districts (increasing the total
number to 112 districts). The creation of new districts had negative impact on project
implementation in the following areas: (i) the change in number of districts necessitated changes
in the scope of work and caused delays in implementation of IFMS Tier 2, (ii) reduction in
staffing levels and available capacity at HLG and LLG levels for both for new and old districts,
with negative impacts on implementation of Component 1 and 2 and the overall project outputs
and results, (iii) impact on interventions under Component 2 in Northern Uganda – the reform
resulted in an increase in total number of districts from 38 to 55, thus impacting the volume of
LDG transfers per district, negatively influencing the staffing levels, and increasing the volume
of work to be completed, and (iv) failure to provide the necessary staffing for new districts
resulted in a failure to meet the trigger to APL II on staffing threshold (75% of LG structures
fully funded).

Effects of the diminishing size of LDG and CBG: Over the course of the project, the per capita
investments for the Local Development and Capacity Building Grants dropped to about US$0.75
for the rural districts and around US$1.57 for urban local governments due to the fact that the
allocations provided remained stagnant. As the volume of money sent to Local Governments
reduced (shrinking further after the creation of new districts) the net impact was a reduction in
direct investments, the overall discretionary grants available for each LG, and a deterioration in
the fiscal incentive provided as part of the LDG.

Despite these challenges, the project implementation teams were able to undertake the necessary
actions to ensure that by project closure almost all activities were satisfactorily completed at
project closure and the credit provided was fully disbursed.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design: The project built on the existing M&E framework as developed under LDGP II.
Routine M&E data was made available through mainstream data collection performed by the
MoFPED for Component 1 and MoLG for Components 2 & 3. The project included a total of 8
indicators. The indicators were not modified during project implementation. The results
framework in the approved PAD did not at the time reflect updated baselines for all indicators8,
and the intermediate indicators did not include targets up to the end of the project (only up to
2009). The PDO indicators and the intermediate indicators did not reflect the focus on MDAs
spelled out in the PDO.



8
  The indicator for revenue collection still made reference to the original baseline of FY2005/06 and was not updated, also
not during midterm review and restructuring.




                                                                7
M&E Implementation and Utilization: Monitoring and evaluation activities were carried out
by the project teams for the various components as per the project design, including using data
from the national performance assessments and establishment of a CDD project database. The
project was able to consistently report on progress for each of the indicators under
implementation and to track the implementation of projects under LDG and CDD. However, due
to the delay and difficulties in obtaining some of the fiscal data, there was a lag between the year
of reporting and the year under implementation. In addition, the results framework was not
revised to cater for the increase in number of districts or to complete the missing annual targets
for the intermediate indicators. The data collected was used to inform resource allocations (in the
case of LDG) and to inform project progress reporting.

Local Government National Assessment. The national assessment system designed under
LGDPII was applied during LGMSD as a basis for allocation of LDG. The assessment was
managed by Government teams and the intention to rely more on reports generated automatically
from the LGs was achieved. However, despite these gains, the costs of the annual assessment
remained high (almost US$1m per year) and this created challenges in terms of the timely
delivery and completion of the assessments, thus affecting the timeliness of the budget and
allocation process of the LGs9.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards. The project was appraised as a category B project, triggering OP4.01
Environmental Assessment and OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement. The project’s safeguards
instruments included a Resettlement Planning Framework and Environmental Social
Management Framework. Both were discussed at consultations and disclosed in-country on July
30, 2007 and in Infoshop on August 6, 2007. In addition to the safeguards instruments, the
project envisaged an ambitious and comprehensive training program facilitated in partnership
with the National Environment Management Agency (NEMA), targeting LG and MoLG staff.

While comprehensive training, sensitization and mainstreaming efforts were undertaken to
integrate safeguards aspects in project implementation and in local government management
more general, safeguards were generally rated Moderately Satisfactory during implementation,
largely due to the following issues: (i) delays in establishing and formalizing partnership with
NEMA also causing delays in the roll out of the training program, (ii) insufficient application of
the screening processes undertaken at LG level, and (iii) lack of environmental officer on site or
lack of capacity for officer designated with the responsibility. Furthermore, the project design
had indicated that an annual assessment of environmental and social safeguards would be
completed. This was not done consistently – mainly towards the end of the project. MoLG
undertook a review of sub projects in 15 districts in 2012. The review revealed up to 70%
compliance with ESMF requirements in terms of screening, development and implementation of
EMSPs and certification of projects.

9
  In this scenario, Government has decided to undertake a thorough review of the relevance of assessment model, including
(i) the current indicators, and minimum conditions, (ii) the management and implementation of the assessment process, (iii)
the linkages of the assessment with M&E systems. The Ministry commissioned a consultancy team, which is reviewing the
NAT with a view of making it more affordable, more sector-inclusive with more emphasis on value for money.




                                                               8
The Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) was used as the overall framework for screening and
reducing risks associated with land acquisition as part of implementation of LDG projects. While
the project assisted MoLG in integrating safeguards as an indicator in the national annual
performance assessments, and thereby contributed to further awareness and capacity on
safeguards issues at LG level, the actual uptake and institutionalization of social safeguards
management LG level was not fully successful, and there was some degree of variation of
performance between LGs. A review conducted in 2012 indicated that one of the main
challenges associated with the compliance with the RPF was delays in implementation of
compensation measures. The main reason for this delay was due to low capacity and lack of
knowledge and skills required to handle the process of land acquisition in the most appropriate
and timely manner at LG levels.

Fiduciary. In line with the project design, LDG (and CDD) was transferred using country
systems for the fiscal transfers to LGs. LG FM and procurement systems were assessed as part of
the national performance assessments, and the overall results demonstrated that the large
majority of LGs performed acceptably. The project had an adequate financial management
system (using national systems for LGs) that provided, with reasonable assurance, accurate and
timely information that funds were being used for intended purposes. The accounting and
financial procedures were in line with national and Bank procedures. Annual financial audits did
not highlight any major issues10. FM was rated was rated MS and S interchangeably. Annual
procurement plans were shared with the Bank team for review. The procurement plans were
disclosed in time, according to Bank’s requirements. Procurement of works and goods were
carried out satisfactorily during the project, but the project did face procurement delays
(particularly under component 1) and was affected by capacity constraints (in particular with
regards to implementation of sub projects in Northern Uganda). The annual procurement audits
(a legal covenant under the project and a risk mitigation measures) were not carried out every
year. The rating for procurement management in the project was overall Moderately Satisfactory
and this was consistent over the life of the project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

In line with results of LGDP I and II sustainability of assets is expected to be satisfactory. All
new and rehabilitated assets are managed and maintained by the local governments (districts and
sub counties) in the case of component 2 and by LGs, and MDAs supported by technical teams
from MoFEP and MoLG in the case of Component 1. At the closing of the project, due the
failure of Government to meet one of the 6 triggers (75% of LG structures fully funded) for
APL211, the follow on project has been temporarily put on hold. However, the continuation of
the local government investment cycle has been secured due to the mainstreaming of the CBG
and the LDG in the Government budget. Furthermore, Government through a recent Cabinet
decision has announced that it will take the following steps to address bottle necks in
decentralization: (a) restructure LGs and adjust them to the status and needs, (b) halt the creation
of new LGs and establishment of stringent criteria for future creation of LGs, and (c) finance any
remaining works under the Northern Uganda support from GoU budget. In this context, the Bank

10
   Audit reports on utilization of LDG revealed minor inconsistencies in the use of LDG, although this was limited to a
relative small number of LGs and relatively small amounts (unaccounted for).
11
   Refer annex 10 for a full list of the triggers for APL II and the status at project closure.


                                                             9
will maintain the dialogue and assess when preparation of the follow up project can begin. The
Bank is strategically placed to continue the engagement in the sector given the long experience
as well as the current engagement in other urban projects that are closely tied to the
decentralization agenda (Uganda Support to Municipal Infrastructure Development (USMID)
and Kampala Institutional and Infrastructure Development Project in particular).

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The relevance of the project objectives and the design remains high. The objectives and the
design are consistent with both the UJAS (active Country Assistance Strategy at the time of
approval) and the current CAS for Uganda. The objectives are fully aligned with Government’s
Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) (which emphasizes decentralization as a mechanism to
increase local autonomy and strengthen both upward and downward accountability) at the time
of design as well as with the current National Development Plan (NDP). In particular, LGMSD
addresses the sub-national thematic area of the NDP12. LGMSD was also aligned to the Peace
Recovery and Development Plan for Northern Uganda (PRDP)13, and with key sectoral priorities.
The mainstreaming of the LDG as a core component in the intergovernmental fiscal system also
helped support the foundation for further World Bank engagement in the urban sector (USMID).
USMID was designed as a performance grant for selected urban local governments with more
stringent performance criteria in accordance with the higher capacity and more substantial capital
investment of the urban local governments.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Achievement of PDO is rated Satisfactory. The development objective of LGMSD was ‘to
strengthen the ability of the MDAs and LGs to plan and manage resources in collaboration with
communities for service delivery’. While the PDO included national and local level, the PDO
indicators focused only at LG level and did not include any indicator to measure the level of
services provided. Overall, the project objective was achieved. The project accomplished
concrete and tangible results through the direct support to investments at LG level funded under
Component 2, through the institutional and organization gains resulting from Component 1, and
through the comprehensive capacity building support activities under Component 2.

With respect to strengthening of MDAs, IFMIS was rolled out to a larger number of MDAs that
originally targeted and a higher number of LGs than targeted completed their final accounts
within the stipulated time (PDO indicator 2) – this provides evidence that element of the PDO
12
   Including: (i) Increase access to service delivery, (ii) Promote the growth of Local Economic Development (LED) at sub-
national level especially at parish level, (iii) Promote inclusive participation of all sections of population in planning and
budgeting, (iv) Increase access to services in war affected areas in Northern and Eastern Uganda, (v) Improve household
income to at least 20m shillings per household annually, (vi) Strengthen oversight institutions at local level, (vii) Facilitate
extension of Rural Electrification services, (viii) Develop a system of responsive and accountable leadership at Local
Government level, and (ix) Enable Local Governments develop adequate capacity to mobilize, allocate, and utilize financial
resources at their disposal.
13
   The PRDP is a special plan of action that also acts as a coordinating framework for stabilizing Northern Uganda in order
to regain peace, recovery and development. Through the sub-component on support to Northern Uganda (SNU), LGMSD
contributed to the implementation of the PRDP to re-introduce state presence thereby strengthening service delivery
coordination, supervision and monitoring. The support to Northern Uganda contributed to four core PRDP strategic
objectives namely; (i) consolidation of state authority; (ii) rebuilding and empowering communities; (iii) revitalization of the
northern economy; and (iv) peace building and reconciliation.


                                                                10
associated with MDAs and LGs was achieved. The successful implementation of IFMIS to
MDAs and LGs was remarkable, in particular in the context of the many challenges that such
reforms often face delays and setbacks (as has been observed in several other countries in Africa).
Although the implementation of the component was significantly delayed, the broad objectives
in supporting and expanding the roll out of the Public Financial Management Reform Program
were achieved. All three subcomponents achieved, and in some cases, exceeded their stated
targets and outputs. The economic analysis (refer annex 3) indicates that the targeted benefits
expected through the implementation of IFMIS were largely achieved, and that the project was
both cost effective and efficient.

With regards to the “strengthening of LGs ability to plan and manage resources for service
delivery?, evidence provided from the national performance assessments indicates that the PDO
was achieved. The share of districts meeting the minimum conditions has increased from 61% in
2009 to 89% in 2011 (including 88% in Northern Uganda, thus exceeding the target for PDO
Indicator 1), and the share of districts (LGs) achieving rewards as a result of high scores in the
assessments has increased to 64% in 2011. Similarly, the share of municipalities and LLGs
meeting the minimum conditions has increased from 77% to 95% and from 57% to 73%
respectively. This is another indication that the PDO focusing on strengthening ability of LGs to
plan and manage resources with communities was achieved. Further, the project was highly
successful in consolidating and expanding the capacity building activities targeting local
government staff, including training of more than 67,000 LG staff in key LG management areas
and more than 1,600 staff benefitted from the professionalization program. This contributed to
improved LG performance and the expansion of a critical mass of LG staff. Finally, the PDO
indicator on increases in LG own source revenues was achieved (PDO Indicator 3) – a total 56%
of LGs increased their overall revenue with more than 20% between 2005/06 and 2010/11.14.

With respect to service delivery, a total number of 16,016 sub-projects financed by LDG were
implemented and completed by end of FY13 under the LGMSD across all 111 local governments
in Uganda - with more than 4,500,000 direct beneficiaries (of which 51% women) and an
estimated 17 million indirect beneficiaries. 85% of all the investment activities under Local
Development Grant (LDG) were made in core PEAP sectors - education, health, water, and roads
–exceeding the target for PDO indicator 4. A LDG review exercise (covering 8,423 projects) also
revealed that most LGs were in full compliance with two of the key principles outlined the
LGMSD design: (i) 84% of the reviewed projects were implemented in accordance with the
principle under LGD to focus on making existing structures and facilities fully functional and
fulfilling the required service standards, and (ii) 80% of the projects were compliant with the
service delivery packages (setting service standards). A beneficiary survey indicated that almost
90% of beneficiaries were either satisfied or partially satisfied with the services and goods/works
provided, and that overall satisfaction with LG services increased from 42 to 66% (refer section
3.6 for details).

While substantially delayed, the successful implementation of the civil works has contributed to
the achievement of the objective of the sub-component of the support to the LGs in Northern
Uganda. Availability of buildings in sub-counties that had been practically abandoned by both

14
  Data for FY10/11. This number includes a total of 81 LGs for which data was available at the time of this ICR, both new
and old.


                                                              11
the LGs and its clients has to some extent re-established the presence of state authority and an
improved level of service provision in the areas. A survey carried out by MoLG established that
the improvements (in combination with training efforts and provision of operational equipment)
had contributed to (i) reduced absence of sub country staff, (ii) improved productivity of LLG
staff15.

With regards to “strengthening of LGs ability to plan and manage resources in collaboration with
communities for service delivery?, a set of implementation reviews provide indications that the
CDD modality achieved the intended objectives set out at the beginning of the project, and that
the CDD approach was successful in enhancing the strengthened interface between communities
and the LGs and LLGs. Under CDD, a total number of 13,016 projects benefitting 2,640,098
direct beneficiaries (of which 52% were women)16 in agriculture, livestock and services sectors
were completed.

One intermediate indicator - on minimum staffing levels for LGs in Northern Uganda – was off
target (32% vs. target of 65%). As explained, this indicator was strongly affected by external
factors, including the creation of new districts – and this also is mirrored in the shortfall in
meeting one of six triggers for the APL Phase 2.

Based on the analysis above, the ICR rates the overall achievement of the PDO as satisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency
An economic analysis was completed for IFMS roll-out (Component 1), a cost effectiveness
analysis was done for the implementation of the LDG (Component 2), and an economic efficacy
analysis was done for CDD grants (Component 2) – refer details in annex 3.

Economic Analysis of Component 1: The sample evaluated in this analysis includes four local
government agencies from the pilot phase of tier 2 implementation (Luwero, Nebbi, Iganga, and
Kumi), and one central government agency (Uganda Heart Institute). The evaluation of
component 1 is based on the comparison of the existing and future costs and benefits of IFMIS
implementation, and calculation of the net present value and the internal rate of return of the
investments. Overall, aggregated internal rate of return of all the reviewed sites is 17.27%,
which is higher than the assumed opportunity cost of capital and thus a positive result. The
overall net present value of the project for the sites in the sample is about UShs 320 million, or
about US$123,000 (the results for the individual sites in the sample vary)17.

Because of the small sample size it is difficult to make the overall conclusion based on the
results of the cost-benefit analysis alone. It should be noted, however, that economic cost-benefit

15
   However, monitoring visits also indicated that some of the staff houses (in particular in rural areas) were not consistently
occupied by staff – this points to the issue that while housing can attract and retain staff, it must be complemented by
additional incentives and actions (financial or other, and actual provisions for LGs to recruit staff).
16
   Each CDD project has an average of 25 direct beneficiaries representing 25 households. The average size of a household
is 6 members. CDD program reviews indicated that each household has a programming influence of at least 5 other
households. Using this formula, it can be projected that the total number of individuals engaged in CDD projects, directly
and indirectly, are 9,762,000. This represents at least 30% of the total population of the country.
17
   Refer annex 3 for details. The PAD included a cost benefit analysis of IFMIS roll out to 2 LGs and 2 MDAs undertaken
under EFMP II, but the author did not have access to the background data for this analysis. The analysis had an average
NPV of 1.7b UGX A (approximately US$646,000) and an average ERR of 31%.


                                                                12
analysis is likely to underestimate the true value of the project or its components. While all of the
costs of the component implementation are well defined and included in the analysis, not all of
the benefits can be identified, measured and quantified in economic value terms and included in
such analysis. Therefore, the estimated benefits of the component 1 described in this analysis
could be considered somewhat conservative, and the actual benefits are likely to be larger.

Economic Analysis of Component 2: The evaluation of this component includes the estimation
of the cost efficiency of investments compared to the similar past investments (for LDG) and
evaluation of the likelihood, based on the reported result, that the component achieved positive
economic results. A cost-benefit analysis could not be completed because the component
supports thousands of sub projects in different sectors that have varied costs, potential benefits,
scale, and types of impact on beneficiaries. For this reason, it is difficult to accurately estimate
benefits of the component as a whole and consequently to perform the economic cost benefit
analysis for the entire component. While the cost efficiency analysis is not as useful in
demonstrating the economic efficacy of the project, it nevertheless demonstrates whether any
cost efficiencies were achieved during the implementation of this component (a similar approach
was applied in the PAD).

Cost Efficiency of LDG: The table below summarizes average cost figures for the LGMSD
project, as well as average cost figures for the LGDP 1 and 2, which also used similar financing
mechanism. The table summarizes average cost figures by economic sector.

Cost Efficiency Comparison of LDG Projects (in US$, key sectors)
                                            LGMSD                           LGDP 2                          LGDP 1
                                 No of Projects Average Cost     No of Projects Average Cost     No of Projects Average Cost
                                  Completed      per Project      Completed      per Project      Completed      per Project
     Administration                      1.426   $      1.947             256   $       4.946             117   $     10.639
     Education                           3.110   $      4.482           3.445   $       2.481           2.525   $      2.241
     Health                              3.723   $      3.793           1.248   $       4.281             832   $      3.903
     Production and Marketing            1.611   $      3.788           2.593   $       1.493             809   $      1.498
     Roads and Drainage.                 3.447   $      6.345           3.338   $       4.281           2.081   $      4.502
     Solid Waste                            66   $      1.373             140   $       2.201              99   $     27.054
     Water                               2.117   $      2.829           2.770   $       1.666           1.741   $      1.892
                                         15.500 $     4.186,47           13.790 $     2.773,06            8.204 $    3.255,09


The table above presents a comparison of cost-efficiency of individual investments across
different projects with similar approach. While some sectors (such as administration, health,
and solid waste) appear to have improved in cost-effectiveness, others (such as education,
roads, and water) show significantly less cost-effectiveness compared to LGDP projects. This
may be due to the scale and of individual projects, especially in resource heavy infrastructure
projects. Road, drainage and waterworks improvement projects normally are more costly per
project compared to other sectors and, if relatively large scale improvements were undertaken
in these sectors, the cost-effectiveness figure would be negatively affected18. Finally, the fact
that procurement for all LG investments was undertaken using procedures in compliance with
Bank guidelines and with Uganda’s legal framework is also an indication of the likelihood that
project investments were cost-effective.

18
   In addition to this, there are limitations with regards to crosscutting comparison over time for costs, due to prices changes
in material costs, inflation and depreciation of the Ug Sh.




                                                                 13
Economic Efficacy of CDD: Similarly to LDG, no detailed data is available to assess CDD
projects’ actual economic benefits. However, because intended benefits of this subcomponent
are already expressed in economic value terms (i.e. income generation for the beneficiary
population), it is possible to estimate the likelihood of its economic efficacy. Based on the
available data concerning the number of projects and beneficiaries, and assuming that these
projects provided all their direct beneficiaries with an income equivalent to at least poverty line
rate of annual income (403 U Shs per hour or US$1.25 per day ), the result would be a more
than 400% return on investment. However, it is probably not likely that all CDD projects were
successful and/or all of the projects provided income to all of their direct beneficiaries.
Therefore, it is necessary to estimate at what level of adjustment (of project success rates, and
of the number of direct project beneficiaries) the project would generate sufficient economic
benefit to result in zero net present value of costs and benefits (i.e. breakeven point at a
assumed opportunity cost of capital). If the actual results are higher than this adjustment level,
then the actual net present value of the project is also positive and the project is economically
beneficial. The analysis determined that if the actual success rate is only 46% of total funded
projects, the subcomponent can be said to have achieved positive result. The adjustment point
is conservative enough (in other words, it allows for large enough percentage of projects to be
unsuccessful and still result in overall positive outcome) to allow for positive assessment for
this subcomponent.

Based on the findings above, it is concluded that the project achieved a positive economic result.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The overall project outcome is rated satisfactory. The project remains highly relevant to current
Government and Bank priorities. The project succeeded in achieving its overall PDO: ability to
plan and manage resources was effectively improved at MDA and LG level, involvement of
communities was enhanced through use of the CDD approach, and, in addition, service delivery
was improved. Three of four PDO indicators exceeded the target value and one indicator was
partially achieved. Two of four intermediate indicators were exceeded target value, one was
partially achieved and one was not achieved19. Furthermore, additional achievements outside of
the PDO indicators justify that the overall outcome rating is satisfactory, among others due to
(i) the effective delivery of sub projects in accordance with the LGMSD design principles
improving access to services for the population nationwide as evidenced in beneficiary
satisfaction surveys, (ii) the roll out of CDD as a new type of funding window achieving several
of its intended institutional objectives while providing opportunities for gainful employment and
income, (iii) the successful implementation of the sub component on strengthening local
government capacity through CB grant and professionalization all contributes to the overall
rating, (iv) the improvement in institutional capacity at LG level as evidenced in the results of
the annual performance assessments, and (v) the achievement of 5 of 6 triggers for the next APL,
including that Government continue to fund the LDG and CBG from own source (including
beyond the lifetime of LGMSD). Lastly, the project was completed at a satisfactory level of

19
   However, the intermediate indicator not achieved (staffing levels in Northern Uganda) was also affected by decision and
policy changes outside the control of the project (increase in number of districts, and lack of financing of new staff).




                                                              14
efficiency and with a positive economic result as demonstrated in the gains from implementation
of IFMIS and CDD.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
While no detailed data exists to demonstrate the poverty dimensions of the project, it can be
stated that the fact that 85% of the investments under LDG were made within the core PEAP
sectors is an indication that the project provided tangible benefits to all segments of society,
including the most poor and vulnerable (provision of public goods). Similarly, there is evidence
that poor communities benefited from CDD interventions, either directly (e.g. large number of
women’s groups, groups of PWDs, youth, female headed households), or indirectly as members
of a larger group. The project also integrated gender and poverty dimensions through the use of
the Harmonized Participatory Planning Guidelines emphasizing participation and inclusion of all
groups in LG planning and budgeting, and the integration of social and gender dimensions in the
Annual Assessment indicators (clear focus on poverty eradication, through partnerships with
NGOs/CBOs and private sector, and gender mainstreaming in development plans). Under CDD,
communities contributed in-kind (amounting to US$ 5.2m in total), mostly labor, as part of the
design and implementation of projects. This created temporary and also more permanent income
opportunities for community members. In addition, while not quantifiable, it is estimated that a
large proportion for both LDG and CDD were retained at local level since most of the
construction materials was procured locally. It is also noteworthy that for both LDG and CDD,
the number of female beneficiaries is high (52% for CDD, and 51% for LDG), and under CBG, a
total of 39% of the LG staff trained were women.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Through the roll out and implementation of IFMIS and the expansive capacity building activities
under Component 2 (financed by the CBG), the project contributed to strengthening of LG
financial management and overall management, planning and delivery capacity of LGs, as
outlined above. This is also evidenced in the improvement in performance scores across districts
in the annual performance assessments. Furthermore, as evidenced in annex 3, there is clear
evidence that the roll out of IFMIS to MDAs resulted in efficiency gains – potentially gains that
could increase further over time. With regards to institutional change, the dialogue on
decentralization reforms under the project, including the size and financing of LGs, indirectly
contributed to a decision by Government to halt the creation of new districts, and to establish a
commission to determine the appropriate structure for the different types of local governments
(rural districts versus urban local governments), including their human and financial resources.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The challenges associated with financing available for LGs faced during implementation of the
LGMSD has led to deepening of the policy dialogue with Government regarding how to address
the financing needs for urban and rural local governments. This dialogue led to the formulation
of the Uganda Support to Municipal Infrastructure Development (USMID) which was approved
by the Board in FY13 (the project includes targeted financing to meet capital needs of urban
areas and expands the performance assessment for LGMSD).




                                               15
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

In addition to the review, a Beneficiary Satisfaction exercise was completed for 180 LDG
projects in 38 LGs (including LLGs in each LG) – representing a sample size of 1.1% of the total
number of LDG projects, and 34% of total number of LGs. The survey focused on quality of the
goods and/or works provided, timeliness of implementation, and sustainability of the service
provided. The results of the exercise showed that more than almost 90% of the beneficiaries were
satisfied or partially satisfied with the services provided: (i) 58% satisfactory, (ii) 28% partially
satisfactory, and (iii) 14% not satisfactory. The main problems raised were (i) delays in project
implementation, (ii) inadequate maintenance of roads and drainage, (iii) inadequate drainage
around key community facilities, and (iv) the relative small size of facilities (i.e. of LDG
financed projects) which often could not meet the demand.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The risks to maintaining the development outcome as well as the risks to the overall institutional
framework for decentralized service delivery are moderate given the commitment demonstrated
by the Government and the capacity of the LGs to manage and maintain services and
infrastructure provide under the project. While Government has demonstrated its commitment to
supporting a decentralized framework for service delivery (including full financing of the LDG),
the uncertain policy environment for decentralization, the decrease in overall funding per capita
for LDG as a result of creation of new districts and population increase, and the inability to meet
one of the triggers for phase 2 of the APL (on minimum staffing) are all potential risks to the
sustainability of the gains made during the project. These risks are expected to be reduced due to
the decision of Government to halt the creation of new districts and to review the structure of
LGs in terms of staffing needs and requirements.

On the institutional side, MoLG was provided with support to operate and manage the processes
related to Component 2 and 3. Following the close of the project, Government has transferred
responsibility and management for LDG and CDD, and is formulating a sustainability plan for
management and oversight of IFMIS. At LG level, the sustainability of investments and outputs
achieved has been secured through the strengthening of management and delivery capacity of
LGs to perform on their mandate. Finally, as highlighted above, Government has decided to
undertake a thorough review of the current assessment model and its indicators and institutional
arrangements, and specific improvements have already been made as per the performance
assessment model used for USMID.




                                                 16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Quality at Entry - Satisfactory.
The formulation of LGMSD commenced as a natural continuation of Bank engagement under
LGDP I and II and key lessons from these operations were integrated in the design of LGMSD.
Overall, the analytical foundations of the project were well prepared, strategically relevant, and
consistent with Government policies and priorities. The risks and mitigation measures were
assessed and relevant mitigation measures were identified, although some risks were more
contextual than inherent to the project itself (e.g. creation of new districts). The choice of APL as
the preferred instrument was logical and justified in the context of the medium and long term
reform agenda and the specific focus of the project on a broad array of different reforms and
initiatives. The APL approach was also chosen to have an exit strategy in case Government
commitment to decentralization reforms were to dissipate. The PDO was somewhat convoluted
due to the integration of MDAs and LGs in one objective and could have been simplified. The
results framework did not fully reflect the MDA focus under Component 1, and did not include
targets for the last two years of implementation (for intermediate indicators).

(b) Quality of Supervision - Satisfactory
The Bank conducted a total of 11 implementation support missions during the life of the project,
and the mid-term review was completed 24 months after effectiveness as stipulated in the
Financial Agreement. Most missions included joint field visits with the Government team, and
the missions were effective in identifying and addressing any implementation issues. In addition,
the Bank provided rapid day-to-day responses to GoU requests and queries on key issues. As part
of the technical discussions on Component 1 (specifically on the data center), and in order to
resolve technical issues with regards to the preferred technical solution, the team brought in
technical expertise from other units to allow for the integration of experiences from other
countries and to ensure quality and sustainability of the chosen IT solution.

The midterm review completed in December 2010 provided valuable input an particularly
allowed the Bank, in conjunction with the GoU team, to systematically target impeding factors
for implementation, in particular the substantial delays under Component 1 and Component 2
encountered during the first eighteen months of the project. However, during midterm review
and the subsequent restructuring, the Bank did not take advantage of the opportunity to update
the results framework - although the number of districts had changed and no targets had been
identified for intermediate indicators beyond 2009. The supervision and mid-term review
documentation, including the Aide memoires, were adequate and detailed. The ISR ratings
reflected the state of the project at the given time – from the delays in effectiveness, the delays in
Component 1, and up until the last 18 months of the project were ratings were consistently
satisfactory. The ratings on FM, procurement and safeguards deteriorated somewhat over time,
and the M&E ratings may have been higher than warranted, in particular in connection with the
delays in acquiring updated M&E data in the first two year of the project.




                                                 17
While the project did identify the risks of changes in Government approach to decentralization
reforms, the mitigation measures designed to limit the risk (bringing the reform dialogue to the
highest possible level through PRSC dialogue) did not prove fully effective. Furthermore, the
design did not fully anticipate two major obstacles that caused delay in the first two years of the
project: (i) the complexity of procurement under Component 1 and the preferences of
Government to overhaul the existing data center, and (ii) the complexity in acquiring land titles
in Northern Uganda which caused delays under Component 2. However, these two issues could
not easily have been known up front and the Bank adequately collaborated with the Government
to address implementation challenges and reduce delays.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.
As the rating of the project was Satisfactory through most of its implementation, and since the
key implementation issues were proactively addressed, the overall satisfactory rating for Bank
performance is justified.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

Although Government supported the its support to the project through the continuous timely and
predictable transfer of resources to the LGs, and the prioritization of LDG (including CDD and
CBG) in Government’s MTEF and annual budget and the co-financing provided by LGs as per
project requirement, the combination of the following factors justifies a rating of Moderately
Satisfactory: (i) the creation of new districts which had negative impact on project
implementation, affecting staffing levels, scope of work and causing delays (refer section 2.2),
(ii) the stagnation in overall funding to LDG resulting in a de facto reduction in the annual
allocations to LGs due to population growth and creation of new districts, (iii) the insufficient
provision of staffing for LGs resulting in the project not meeting one of six triggers for Phase 2
of the APL, and (iv) long delay in acquiring Parliamentary approval, thus delaying project
effectiveness.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

MoFPED: The performance of MoFPED as implementing agency for Component 1 was
satisfactory. Although implementation was substantially delayed, the substantial follow up of
delayed activities ensured that almost all activities had been satisfactorily completed at project
close. The ministry resolved implementation challenges and effectively coordinated work
between the three agencies involved in implementation (MoFPED, OAG, and MoLG).

MoLG: The performance of MoLG as implementing agency for Component 2 and 3 was
moderately satisfactory. The ministry ensured that LDG/CBG/CDD funds were transferred on a
timely basis. It also provided comprehensive and timely implementation support on the capacity
building activities, and provided oversight and management of LDG and CDD – however, there



                                                18
were delays in the roll out and implementation of CDD and the activities in Northern Uganda.
The national assessments were not consistently completed on a timely basis (and the assessment
for 2012 was not completed at time of project closure), and there were inconsistencies in M&E,
safeguards and fiduciary oversight as evidenced in the sections above.

LGs: Overall, the performance of the LGs was satisfactory and in accordance with LDG rules
and regulations, and in case of Bank financed components, in accordance with Bank
requirements. The main gaps in performance were with regards to (i) compliance with safeguards
requirements, and (ii) adequate supervision of CDD.

 (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.
The weighting of Government performance determining the enabling environment for the LGs,
and indirectly affecting the implementation of the project justifies an overall rating of moderately
satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

Consolidation and focus on sustainability of services – The shift from purely new investments
(as per LGDP I and II) to a principle of consolidation of existing services to bring them up to
standard (using specific service delivery standards for the relevant sectors) was a relevant and
appropriate approach in the context of limited resource envelope and reduced discretionary
grants (including OSRs) available for LGs. The successful implementation and adherence to
these principles added value to the project outputs, and provided a useful example of focusing
resources towards sustaining existing assets and enabling improved delivery of services.

Operational lessons from LGMSD were incorporated into the design of the (PforR) Uganda
Support to Municipal Infrastructure Development (USMID) program. These include:
(i) distinguishing between urban and rural local governments due to the different financial and
capacity needs, (ii) using independent assessors (for minimum access conditions and other
indicators/reviews) to increase transparency and accountability of assessments, and (iii) aligning
the design with Government systems and procedures, and creating a fiscal transfer mechanism
that can gradually become an integrated part of Uganda’s intergovernmental fiscal framework.

Decentralization reform agenda is susceptible to external interventions, and such interventions
can significantly stall reform process – even with risk mitigation measures in place. These issues
require long term engagement. While LGMSD had anticipated the use of PRSCs as leverage for
dialogue on decentralization reforms, the mitigation measures were not adequate to influence the
decision to create new districts or to reduce the effects stagnation in financing. However, towards
the end of the project, following sustained dialogue, specific announcements from Government
indicated that it would take actions to address some of the overall reform agenda risks.

Understanding and adjusting the LDG System – Performance and Allocations: The project
successfully supported the expansion of the LDG system. However, beyond the immediate
service outputs, there is still limited understanding of (i) the incentives and demands of the
existing LDG system (indicators and allocations), and (ii) the institutional improvements at LG
level observed over time. The essence of a performance assessment system is that it is timely,


                                                19
independent, credible and objective. Currently, the LDG performance assessment system does
not fully comply with such criteria. The lesson learned is that performance assessment systems
must be regularly reviewed, adjusted and updated (including the specific indicators) in the
context of the overall decentralization reform framework, and in particular with regards to fiscal
framework and the particular service delivery responsibilities of the LGs.

Undertaking IFMIS reforms in the context of decentralization projects can be a catalyst for
implementation: the project demonstrated that, rather than causing substantial coordination
problems, the linkage between IFMIS reforms and local service delivery was conducive in that
the creation of capacity at LG level promulgated a demand for installation and implementation of
IFMIS. It also demonstrated that although the transactions at LG level are relatively low
compared to most MDAs, the existence of a functioning institutional environment (including
availability of skilled staff) can facilitate roll out of IFMIS at LG level, with particular economic
and organizational benefits. This case can be demonstrated across the region – several countries
are currently undertaking IFMIS roll out (also to LGs).

Balancing provision of public goods under LDG with implementation of Community Grants:
The project was one of the first examples of integration of a regular local government grant with
a specific community development grant, targeting community groups. As such, the project
demonstrated both the risks and opportunities with such an approach. However, one lesson
learned is that the implementation of CDD grants, while improving citizens demand for services
and engagement with local government officials, also require substantial supervision and
consistent oversight and support in order to create sustainability and ensure accountability.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
N/A




                                                 20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

   (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)20
                                     Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                                                                                    Percentage of
   Components                         Estimate        Estimate
                                                                                                     Appraisal
                                   (USD millions) (USD millions)
   Component 1                           20.1            17.8                                              88%
   Component 2                           32.2            32.5                                             101%
   Component 3                            2.7             3.1                                             115%
   Total Baseline Cost                 N/A             N/A
   Physical Contingencies              N/A             N/A
   Price Contingencies                 N/A             N/A
   Total Project Costs                   55.0            53.4                                              97%
   Front-end fee PPF                   N/A             N/A
   Front-end fee IBRD                  N/A             N/A
   Total Financing                       55.0            53.4                                              97%
   Total undisbursed                                      0.177
   Percentage disbursed                                                                                  99.67%


   (b) Financing
                                                                                      Actual/
                                                                   Appraisal
                                                                                      Latest
                                             Type                  Estimate
                                                                   of                                   Percentage of
   Source of Funds                                                                    Estimate
                                             Cofinancing           (USD                                 Appraisal
                                                                                      (USD
                                                                   millions)
                                                                                      millions)
                                             Parallel
   Borrower                                                              143.70            120.221               84%
                                             cofinancing
   IDA                                                                    55.00              53.4                97%




   20
      The Uganda shilling depreciated against the US$ (1 US$ was equivalent to approximately 1,600 USh in 2009 and
   approximately 2,800 USh by the end of 2011. The US$ also depreciated against the SDR. The Government has made
   its commitment as co-financing in Ush, and the con-financing was not formally stated in the FA.
   21
      GoU provided a recurrent amount in USh each year, but the total amount is lower than anticipated at appraisal due to
   the depreciation of the shilling.


                                                            21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1 – Support to the Public Financial Management Systems Reform
Program

Subcomponent 1: Financial Management Systems in MDAs (US$11.6 million)
Activity 1: Technical support to Accountant General’s Office.
   • Funding of 12 consultants in the Accountant General’s Office (5 FMSs, 5 IT
       Specialists, 1 Data Centre Manager and 1 Program Officer).

Activity 2: Implementation of the further roll-out of IFMIS in Central Government.
   • The Oracle IFMIS is running at 79 sites (65 CG sites and 14 LG sites).
   • The Tier 1 solution has been rolled out to 28 CG agencies22.
   • An IFMS Project Support Team was funded to provide technical guidance on the
       system's implementation at both existing and new sites. The team comprised 1
       IFMS Project Manager, 1 Data Centre Manager, 2 Senior IFMS Accountants and a
       Project Administration Support team.

Activity 3: Upgrading the data center to support extension of IFMIS to new entities
and accommodation of related systems like the integrated personnel, payroll and
pensions system.
   • The IFMS Tier 1 solution was rolled out to 28 Central Government sites comprising
       ministries, commissions, agencies and referral hospitals (see detailed list in annex
       9).
   • Data center was partially upgraded23

Activity 4: Support to the IFMS technical staff, including recurrent costs. The
Management Support team continued to provide facilitate the consultants in the Program
Coordination Office.

Subcomponent 2: Support to MoLG & Local Governments (US$6.9 million)

Activity 1: Roll-out and integration of new ICT based PFM system (IFMIS and other
systems such as budget reporting system) to 6 LGs. The IFMS was successfully rolled
out to six (6) new districts of Arua, Wakiso, Kabale, Gulu, Tororo and Rakai in May 2012.



22
   See annex 9 for full list.
23
   The activity was not fully completed by the time of project closure due to several reasons: (i) challenges in conversion
of the center’s application from Oracle version 11 to 12, (ii) delay in procurement process. During the period January to
March 2012, MoFPED completed the upgrading of the hardware for the Data Center in Kampala. MoFPED had expected
to upgrade the Oracle software from version 11g to version 12g in July 2012 but this was not achieved by project closure.
MoFPED is now in the process of directly hiring Oracle to support the upgrade, and it is expected that the upgrade will be
finalized by July 2013.




                                                          22
Technical support also continued to be provided to the pilot LGs on tier 1. This brought the
total Tier 1 roll out to 14 LGs24.

Activity 2: Implementation of an IFMIS system for Tier 2 local governments.
   • The tier 2 solution was rolled out to six (6) pilot sites: Ntungamo, Mubende, Kumi,
       Iganga, Luwero and Nebbi districts – the sites went live in March 2012.
   • The roll-out phase covered an additional 20 local governments namely: Adjumani,
       Apac, Busia, Bugiri, Bundibugyo, Kalangala, Kapchorwa, Kitgum, Nakasongola,
       Pader, Kyenjojo, Paliisa, Kisoro, Masindi, Rukungiri, Sembabule, Hoima
       Municipality, Lugazi Town Council, Jinja Municipal Council and Mukono
       Municipal Council25. These sites became active between October and December
       2012.

Activity 3: Technical support for the second tier LGs as well as the establishment of a
team of consultants for application support. A team of Application and IT consultants at
MoLG continued to support the implementation of Public Financial Management reforms
in Local Governments.

Activity 4: Establishment of Financial Systems/ICT Support functions at MoLG. The
training provided to the Inspectorate Department at MoLG was crucial in building a cadre
of MoLG staff to sustain the process of implementation and roll out of IFMS.

Subcomponent 3: Management Support (US$1.6 million). Throughout the project, the
management support unit provided facilitation and backup for consultants working in the
Program Coordination Office, including the Program Coordinator, the Finance Manager,
Procurement, and M&E specialist, i.e. both the FINMAP program and the PFM
components of the LGMSD project. A strategy for mainstreaming support in the national
budget has also been identified, but a formal exit strategy remains to be completed.

Component 2: Support to LDG
The support provided to LGs including support to Northern Uganda, LDG, CBG and CDD)
was used by LGs and community groups to achieve the following outputs:

Subcomponent 1: Local Development Grant (LDG)
   • A total number of 16,066 projects at an average unit cost of UShs 10,884,932 were
     completed at project closure in the sectors of administration, education, health,
     production, roads and drainage, solid waste and water
   • The project contributed to improved access to services for a total of 4,687,582
     direct beneficiaries (of which 51% women) and an estimated 17 million indirect
     beneficiaries.
   • 85% of all investment activities under LDG were in core sectors - education, health,
     water, and roads.

24
   The total number of LGs under Tier 1 were reduced from 14 to 8 when Kampala City Council and 5 divisions
became Kampala City Authority in FY10/11.
25
   Kitgum and Kalangala did not go live before the end of the project due to delay with LAN Connectivity. By February
1, 2013, both these LGs were fully operative.


                                                        23
       •    The overall LDG envelop was invested as per the following as follows: Roads
            (32%), education (21%), health (21%) and water (9%).

  Below is a list of the key sub project outputs per sector:
  Sector                   # of projects                  Average costs per project     Share of total LDG
  Administration           1,426                          5,061,450UShs                 4%
  Education                3,110                          11,653,066 UShs               21%
  Health                   3,723                          9,862,167 UShs                21%
  Production               1,611                          9,849,862 UShs                9%
  Roads and drainage       3,447                          16,496,214 UShs               32%
  Water                    2,117                          11,653,066 UShs               9%

  Sector       Output
  Education    • A total of 13,933 classrooms were built in primary schools
               • A total of 83,332 three seats desks were procured for primary school pupils resulting into
               comfortable seating for 249,996 pupils.
               • A total of 515 staff houses (1030 Dwelling Units) for teachers were built hence providing
               accommodation to approximately 1030 teachers.
  Health       • A total of 513 facilities were built (Health Centres II, III and IV).
               • Staff houses totalling 352 (880 Dwelling Units) were built for the medical staff.
  Sanitation   • A total of 2,734 latrines (10,936 stances) were built mainly in schools, health centres and
               markets
               • 267 garbage skips especially in Town Councils and Trade Centres;
               • 22 sanitation lanes in Municipalities.
  Water        • 1796 projects increasing access to water listed as follows: Boreholes, hand dug wells, piped
               water networks, shallow wells, water tanks, Gravity Flow Schemes and protected springs.



  Roads        • 2598 km of roads were rehabilitated or constructed.
               • Many LGs invested in fixing culverts on swampy parts of the roads as well swamp raising.
               Others invested in building bridges; light grading, paving, graveling of roads
               • Provision of streetlights
  Production   • Procurement of seedlings for clonal coffee, mangoes and oranges; and cassava cuttings for
               the farmers.
               • Livestock investments (under CDD)
               • Construction of 56 small markets and 1063 market stalls
               • Improvements made to four abattoirs to improve waste management
               •A total of 77 slaughter slabs were constructed and latrines and water tanks provided

  Trends in LG Performance in National Performance Assessments 2008-2011
Year             2008                      2009                      2010                     2011
Indicator        MC      PMs               MC PMs                    MC     PMs               MC PMs
(Minimum
condition
/Performance
Measure)
                 MC      Reward   Static   MC    Reward     Static   MC     Reward   Static   MC    Reward   Static
Districts        34%     24%      7.5%     61%   48.8%      31%      85%    40%      23%      89%   64%      22%
Municipal        37%                       77%   61.5%      38.5%    89%    50%      21%      95%   46%      36%
Councils
LLGs                                       57%   23%        9.2%     74%                      73%   46%      21%




                                                       24
Outcomes/Results:
 • Improvement in access to service delivery due to the large number of investments,
     then national coverage and the multi sector type of investments
 • Increase in income for households with opportunity to provide labor or support for
     implementation of sub projects, thus contributing to the local economy
 • Improvements in overall institutional capacity of local governments as evidenced in
     improved scores in the national performance assessments

Subcomponent 2: CDD Grants
   • Under CDD, a total number of 13,016 projects benefitting 2,640,098 direct
     beneficiaries (of which 52% were women).
   • The total costs of projects (including community contributions) was approximately
     US$ 19,7m (including US$5,2m provided in kind by community groups) and the
     average cost per project was around US$ 1,516
   • The priority sectors under CDD projects were: (i) livestock (43%), (ii) agriculture
     (33%), and (iii) services (events, management, catering, transport) – 9%. Other
     sectors included food processing, arts and crafts, small scale industries
   • For livestock, 5,891 projects implemented at an average unit costs per project of
     2,623,946 UShs
   • For agriculture, 4,173 projects implemented at an average unit costs per project of
     2,858,774 UShs
   • For services, 1,260 projects implemented at an average unit costs per project of
     2,659,860 UShs

Outcomes/results:
  • Each CDD project has an average of 25 direct beneficiaries representing 25
     households. The average size of a household is 6 members. Progressive CDD
     program reviews indicated that each household has a programming influence of at
     least 5 other households. Using this formula, it can be projected that the total
     number of individuals engaged in CDD projects, directly and indirectly, are
     9,762,000. This represents at least 30% of the total population of the country.
  • The implementation of the CDD modality has led to the creation of 13,016 group
     enterprises.
  • The CDD principle of direct community financing was adopted by other
     government programs such as Lake Victoria Environmental Management Program.
  • CDD revamped and emphasised the role of Parish Chiefs in the development
     process as the core interface between communities and Government.
  • The implementation of the CDD modality gave rise to some untended but positive
     benefits; including testing and applying the Community Procurement Guidelines
     facilitating the implementation of the NGO Registrations Act, creating
     programming and funding linkages with NGOs and other programs, and revamping
     the role of the Parish Chief.
  • CDD gave an opportunity to scale up activities for improved livelihood by enabling
     value addition of existing processes (e.g. acquisition of milling machines, coffee
     hullers, and other small scale production stations). The production stations not only
     created jobs and additional income in the communities, they also reduced the


                                          25
        burden and effort on part of the farmers/ households in respect to less time taken to
        walk/travel to trade centers or towns to get their produce and food processed.

Subcomponent 3: Support to the Local Governments in Northern Uganda

Activity 1, 2 and 3: Rehabilitation of existing office blocks and construction of new
ones, provision of residential housing for staff and provision of office equipment and
vehicles.
The following outputs were delivered in 378 sub-counties spread across Northern Uganda:
   • construction of 88 new and renovated/completed the construction of 241 office
       blocks
   • construction of 122 new and renovated/completed the construction of 185 chiefs’
       residences
   • construction of 156 new and renovated or completed the construction of 183
       residential houses for extension workers.
   • each benefitting sub-county was furnished with sufficient office furniture including
       a lockable filing cabinet, desks, chairs, a lockable notice board, a desk top computer
       and a printer.
   • supply and installation of 205 solar power systems in the sub-counties that are not
       connected to the national electricity grid (completed after project closure)
   • 40 vehicles and 2,400 bicycles distributed to LGs, LLGs and parish chiefs to enable
       mobility in areas

Activity 4: Induction of new LG staff.
   • Induction and training of staff in new areas, including in Participatory Planning,
       Financial Management, Procurement Council Procedures and records management.
   • Copies of 25 key government reference documents (laws, regulations and
       guidelines) were printed and distributed to the LGs
   • Three generic training modules (GTMs): Peace and Peace Building, Conflict
       Resolution and Management, Psychosocial Rehabilitation, were developed to equip
       the LGs with the management tool for the post conflict situation under which they
       operate.

Activity 5: Support to Physical Planning in 9 LGs with IDPs.
   • 30 Physical Development Plans for thirty urban centers (25 Town Boards and 5
       Town Councils) were completed to guide physical development in the fast growing
       trading centers26.
   • Pilot activities for implementation of Physical Development Plans were
       implemented, including: (i) Transferring the information on the approved detailed
       plans of the Central Business District (CBD), (ii) Opening a number of strategically
       located roads and the associated drainage systems and (iii) Naming of the roads and
       installation of road names and plot numbers to give permanent addresses to
       different locations within the towns.


26
  Note that at the time of planning, even the five Town Councils were still town Boards. Most of the
planned urban centers hosted the once populous Internally Displaced Persons camps.


                                                    26
Outcomes/Results
   • A survey carried out by MoLG in conjunction with the LGs established that the
      improvements had contributed to (i) reduced absence of sub country staff,
      (ii) improved productivity of SC staff. However, the results of the national
      assessments indicated that a large number of district sin Northern Uganda still
      failed to meet minimum conditions or scored low in the performance assessment.

Subcomponent 4: Capacity Building Support

Outputs:
   • Using CBG, LGs trained a total of 67,884 (41,316 men and 26,568 women). The
       following key topics where LGs utilized CBG to strengthen the capacity of various
       stakeholders (Councilors, LGs Technical Staff, staff of CBOs and NGOs,
       contractors, etc.):

Topic of CB                                        Females     Males       Total
Mentoring                                          3298        3318        7020
Mentoring of LLGs                                  951         759         1709
Performance appraisal                              1453        2602        4055
Procurement and contract management                642         801         1443
Revenue mobilization and enhancement               588         811         1399
Roles and responsibilities                         468         591         1059
Development Planning                               607         1199        1806
Environment management                             472         841         1313
Ethics and integrity                               468         425         893
Financial management                               1304        2382        3686
Gender and gender mainstreaming                    1035        1286        2321
Induction of councilors                            137         201         338
Induction of technical staff                       3349        3578        6927
Leadership skills                                  1264        782         2046
Administrative Law                                 511         890         1401
Computer training                                  354         194         548
Data and records management                        747         731         1478

    •   1,653 staff trained under the professionalization scheme, of which 1429 were
        trained under the CBG and 224 under the professionalization program. Out of those
        trained, 288 staff (representing 17%) were promoted, 166 staff (representing 10%)
        moved on for better jobs, while 55 staff (representing only 3%) either retired,
        resigned, dismissed or passed away.

Outcomes:
  • 100% funding of the Capacity Building Grant (CBG) by the Government of Uganda
     which was incorporated in the Midterm Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and
     regularly transferred to LGs (as 10% of LDG);
  • The CBG is fully managed by Human Resources Development and Management
     (HRM/D) units in the LGs and it funds a wide range of CB activities,




                                          27
   •   Utilization of nine institutions of higher learning (IHL) to provide training under the
       professionalization arrangement resulting 180 staff (HLG and LLG) being trained
       under the professionalization scheme.
   •   Improved performance across all LGs in the areas of Human Resource Management,
       procurement, LG planning, records management, financial management, public
       administration, contracting, community development and management, M&E and
       resource mobilization to satisfactory levels
   •   The Local Governments have acquired a critical mass of professionals spread across
       all Local Governments in areas of human resource management, public
       Administration and management, procurement, environment management, gender
       mainstreaming, records management responsible for the streamlined systems in
       their areas of profession (but still huge staffing gaps)
   •   There is increased gender awareness in the Local Governments as evidenced from a
       reduction in gender disaggregated beneficiary differential

Component 3: Institutional support

Outputs:
   • Prepared review reports for CDD, safeguards management, implementation of LDG
       and CBG
   • Prepared and delivered Mid Term review report on collaboration with consultants




                                            28
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

An economic analysis was completed for IFMS roll-out (Component 1) and a cost
effectiveness analysis has been done for the implementation of the LDG (Component 2). In
addition, an economic analysis was completed for the CDD grant under Component 2.

Economic analysis of IFMS roll-out;
The focus of the analysis for this component is the continued rollout of Integrated Financial
Management Information Systems (IFMIS) to Central and Local Government Agencies.
The analysis attempts to quantify and compare existing and future costs and benefits of
IFMIS implementation, and calculates the net present value and the internal rate of return
of the investments. As the costs of the project are given, the primary challenge of this
analysis is to, as accurately and comprehensively as possible, estimate economic benefits of
the investments.

Project Benefits
The expected benefits of the project are assumed to result from the efficiencies gained as a
result of IFMIS implementation, and economic costs that will or can be reduced or
eliminated. Calculation of these benefits involves the estimation of the time spend on
various activities and transactions before and after IFMIS implementation and estimation of
economic value of improved efficiency and accuracy in processing transactions and
performing related activities. Specific projected benefit categories estimated in the analysis
are:
     (i)    Time and cost reductions needed for processing payment transactions, and
            resultant savings in opportunity cost of economic resources. As the time and
            effort needed to process transactions is reduced, the amount of economic
            resources freed up and is available for more productive economic activities.
     (ii)   Time and cost efficiencies achieved by central and local government agencies
            for processing of payments and related transactions. As a result of IFMIS
            implementation, the staff spends significantly less time processing each
            payment transaction and on related activities. This can lead to either direct
            reduction of staff costs for the government agencies, or can simply create
            opportunities for other productive use of staff time.
     (iii) Time and cost efficiencies achieved by central and local government agencies
            for other processes and activities encompassed by the IFMIS, such as account
            reconciliation, preparation of financial and management reports, and so on. The
            direct economic benefits of this category are similar to the ones described above,
            as they reduce the cost of these activities and create opportunities for either
            direct administrative cost reductions through the reduction of staffing levels or
            through the utilization of feed up staffing resources for other activities.

This analysis, based on the data collected and supplied by the implementing agency,
considers economic effectiveness of this component by examining only a sample of central
and local government agencies that implemented IFMIS. The sample evaluated in this
analysis includes four local government agencies from the pilot phase of tier 2




                                            29
implementation (Luwero, Nebbi, Iganga, and Kumi), and one central government agency
(Uganda Heart Institute).

It is noted that, besides the few economic benefits estimated in this analysis, there are many
other potential benefits that are not factored in the cost benefit analysis described here27. It
should also be recognized that the real economic benefits accruing to the recipients may not
be financial or economic in nature. Therefore, the estimated benefits of the project
described in this analysis could be considered somewhat conservative, and the actual
benefits are likely to be larger 28 . Given the limitation of the assumption relating to
productive use of available resources29, which has been freed due to the introduction of the
IFMS, the benefits estimated in this analysis should be considered to be potential rather
than definite.

The numerical representation of the magnitude of efficiencies achieved as a result of IFMIS
implementation is provided in the tables below. These values, together with payment
transaction volumes and administrative cost figures, were used in quantifying the economic
benefits of Component 1.

Table 1 summarizes the average no of days needed, before and after IFMIS implementation,
for a payees’ accounts to be credited after invoicing. Table 2 summarizes total estimated
staff time, in hours per month, needed to process payment transactions before and after
system implementation.


Table 1: Number of Days Needed to Complete Payment Process
                              Contractors            Suppliers                     Staff Advances           Transfers
                         Pre-IFMIS Post-IFMIS Pre-IFMIS Post-IFMIS              Pre-IFMIS Post-IFMIS Pre-IFMIS Post-IFMIS
Luwero                       11          2        11           2                    3           1        5             1
Nebbi                        9           2        9            6                    2           1        4             1
Iganga                       12          3        12           3                    3           2        4             2
Kumi                         15          2        14           2                    7           1        4             1
UHI                          10          4        10           4                    14          3         -            -
Average                     11.4        2.6      11.2        3.4                   5.8         1.6      4.3           1.3




27
   This is either because estimating such benefits is impossible because of the unavailability of the data or because it is
impossible to quantify the value of these benefits
28
   Some examples of additional benefits of the project include: (i) Improved Access to Data: archiving and retrieving
records is easy and accurate, (ii) Faster identification of bottlenecks in the payment process, (iii) Greater flexibility in
correcting an error made during the process (Most manual processes required fresh paperwork, IFMS allowed
correction of the same transaction (iv) Easy access to an audit trail of a transaction (an auditor or accounting officer can
now log on to IFMS and instantly access transaction data, rather than constantly looking for hard copy documents), (v)
Easy tracking of Budgets and Expenditure for Heads of Department and all other relevant authorities, (vi) System
budget controls have helped in controlling expenditure within the approved budget, (vii) Improved transparency: each
department has access to their approved budgets and budget and financial information can be obtained on real time
basis, and (viii) Accurate complete and timely reports are available at any time.
29
   The freed resources may or may not be put into productive use.


                                                            30
Table 2: Number of Hours per Month Needed to Process Payment Transactions
                         Contractors           Suppliers           Staff Advances          Transfers
                   Pre-IFMIS Post-IFMIS Pre-IFMIS Post-IFMIS   Pre-IFMIS Post-IFMIS Pre-IFMIS Post-IFMIS
Luwero                38.17       2.43     69.83       4.72       32.42        6.63   23.75         1.97
Nebbi                 19.33       1.78     24.67       6.44       21.58        5.10   17.67         1.68
Iganga                64.50       3.65     45.00       2.71      159.33       16.00   73.33         3.33
Kumi                 146.00       3.40    217.08       5.58      122.83        5.71   21.50         2.60
UHI                   3.25        0.35     38.25       2.53       85.83        3.50      -            -
Average               54.25       2.32     78.97       4.40       84.40        7.39   34.06         2.39

Project Costs and time horizon
Project investment costs included in the analysis are fixed and recurrent costs for each site
in the sample. Fixed costs include site preparation, equipment and software, training and
other miscellaneous one-time costs incurred during the implementation of the project.
Recurrent costs include support and maintenance, software, overhead, and other ongoing
expenses. This analysis assumes that the time horizon of this project is 6 years.

Results of Economic Assessment
Overall, aggregated internal rate of return of all the reviewed sites is 17.27%, which is
higher than the assumed opportunity cost of capital and thus a positive result. The overall
net present value of the project for the sites in the sample is about Ushs 320 million, or
about US$123,000.

The results of the cost-benefit assessment vary among the sites selected for the analysis.
Two of the local government sites in the sample (Luwero and Kumi) and the central
government site have positive net present value of cost and benefit streams and an internal
rate of return that exceeds the assumed opportunity cost of capital. However, two other
local government sites (Iganga and Nebbi) generated internal rates of return that, while still
positive, are lower than the opportunity cost of capital used for the analysis and therefore
result in the negative net present value of cost-benefit streams. Despite this mixed results,
the overall result is a positive net present value, with an internal rate of return that exceeds
the assumed opportunity cost of capital.

Table 3: Net Present Value and Internal Rate of Return Results for the Reviewed
Sites
                                         NPV (USh
                                                       NPV (USD)         IRR
                                         Millions)
                  Luwero                     78.34    $     30,132       17.44%
                  Nebbi                     (47.81)   $    (18,387)       8.45%
                  Iganga                    (88.97)   $    (34,218)       5.50%
                  Kumi                      373.57    $    143,682       36.29%
                  UHI                         5.50    $      2,117       13.63%

                  Overall                    320.65 $      123,326       17.27%



                                              31
Because of the mixed nature of individual site results and a small sample size, it is difficult
to make overall conclusions with complete certainty. The overall result is a positive net
present value, with an internal rate of return that exceeds the assumed opportunity cost of
capital. However, site-specific results are varied, with two out of five selected sites
showing negative net present values. However, considering that the benefits of the project
are not limited to the ones estimated and quantified in this analysis (while its costs are
given), it is likely that the overall net effect of the project is positive.

Sensitivity Analysis
The sensitivity analysis estimates what the results of the analysis would be if the time and
cost efficiencies achieved under the project were lower than the base figures assume. For
example, assuming that the days needed to complete payment transactions and the staff
time needed to process these transactions were 10% lower than the current estimates
suggest, two of the sites still would show positive net present values. However, the overall
internal rate of return of the project would drop slightly below the opportunity cost of
capital and would thus result in a slightly negative NPV. If the above figures were 20%
lower than assumed, then all but one of the sites, as well as the overall sample, would show
negative net present values. The internal rate of return of the project would in this case
drop to about 6%, which is about half of the assumed opportunity cost of capital. Table 4
summarizes these findings.

Table 4: Sensitivity Analysis – Cost-benefit Analysis Results with 10% and 20%
reduction of the efficiencies achieved under the project
                                       -10%                                  -20%
                      NPV (USh                              NPV (USh
                                   NPV (USD)       IRR                   NPV (USD)      IRR
                      Millions)                             Millions)
Luwero                     4.65    $      1,789    12.33%      (69.04)   $   (26,554)    6.85%
Nebbi                   (108.50)   $    (41,732)    3.65%     (169.20)   $   (65,078)   -1.58%
Iganga                  (147.32)   $    (56,662)    0.84%     (205.67)   $   (79,106)   -4.26%
Kumi                     271.71    $    104,502    30.16%      169.84    $    65,322    23.73%
UHI                      (25.61)   $     (9,851)    3.87%      (56.73)   $   (21,819)   -7.89%

Overall                    -5.08 $       (1,954)   11.91%      -330.81 $ (127,234)       6.14%

Cost effective analysis of the Local Development Grants (LDG) utilization:
The evaluation of this component included only the estimation of the efficiency of
investments compared to the similar past investments.        Cost efficiency analysis
demonstrates whether any cost efficiencies were achieved during the implementation of
this component.

The table below summarizes average cost figures for the LGMSD project, as well as
average cost figures for the LGDP 1 and 2, which also used similar financing mechanism.
The table summarizes average cost figures by economic sector.




                                              32
Table 5: Cost Efficiency Comparison of LDG Projects
                                        LGMSD                               LGDP 2                              LGDP 1
                           No of Projects  Average Cost per    No of Projects  Average Cost per    No of Projects  Average Cost per
                            Completed          Project          Completed          Project          Completed          Project
Administration                      1,426          5,061,450               256        12,859,060               117        27,660,868
Education                           3,110         11,653,066             3,445         6,449,738             2,525         5,827,796
Health                              3,723          9,862,167             1,248        11,131,430               832        10,146,595
Production and Marketing            1,611          9,849,862             2,593         3,882,787               809         3,894,377
Roads and Drainage.                 3,447         16,496,214             3,338        11,130,932             2,081        11,705,568
Solid Waste                            66          3,570,878               140         5,723,182                99        70,340,525
Water                               2,117          7,356,224             2,770         4,331,300             1,741         4,919,837
                                    15,500        63,849,862            13,790        55,508,429             8,204       134,495,566



While sectors, such as Administration, Health, and Solid Waste, appear to have improved
in cost-effectiveness, others, such as Education, Roads, and Water, show significantly less
cost-effectiveness compared to LGDP projects. This may be due to the scale and of
individual projects, especially in resource heavy infrastructure projects. Road, drainage
and waterworks improvement projects normally consume large amount of financial
resources per project compared to other sectors and, if relatively large scale improvements
were undertaken in these sectors, the cost-effectiveness figure would be negatively affected.
It is important to note that this by no means implies economic inefficacy of these projects
but simply a comparison of cost-efficiency of individual investments across different
projects.

Community Driven Development (CDD) Grants
Similarly to LDG, no detailed data is available to assess CDD projects’ actual economic
benefits. However, because intended benefits of this subcomponent are already expressed
in economic value terms (i.e. income generation for the beneficiary population), a
rudimentary assessment can be performed to evaluate economic efficacy of this
subcomponent. Based on the available data concerning the number of projects and
beneficiaries, and assuming that these projects provided all their direct beneficiaries with
an income equivalent to at least poverty line rate of annual income (403 UShs per hour or
$1.25 per day30), the result would be a more than 400% return on investment. Such a result
would be extraordinary, but it would probably not be prudent to assume that all of these
projects were successful and/or all of the projects provided income to all of their direct
beneficiaries.

A useful and illustrative exercise in this case would be to estimate at what level of
adjustment (of project success rates, and of the number of direct project beneficiaries)
would the project generate sufficient economic benefit to result in zero net present value of
costs and benefits (i.e. breakeven point at a assumed opportunity cost of capital). If the
actual results are anywhere higher than this adjustment level, then the actual net present
value of the project is also positive and the project is economically beneficial. Therefore,
if this adjustment level is sufficiently low to allow for a conservative assessment, it would
be safe to declare that this subcomponent likely achieved net positive economic effect.



30
  Wage data is based on “Wages in Uganda? survey by wageindicator.org, October 2012:
http://www.wageindicator.org/main/publications/2012/wages-in-uganda-wage-indicator-survey-2012


                                                              33
Table 6: Minimum Project Success Rate Needed to Achieve Breakeven Point
P rojec t S uc c es s R ate Needed to A c hieve B reakeven P oint                                            46,15%

                                                                             O verall                 Adjus ted
Number of P rojec ts                                                                     13.016                6.007
D irec t benefic iaries per projec t                                                         25                 11,5
T ota l D irect benefic iaries                                                          325.400            69.308,3

T otal A nnual Inc om e G enerated - at poverty line rate (US h)             259.649.676.000          55.303.851.866
T otal P rojec t C os ts (U S h)                                              49.378.439.166          49.378.439.166
Net P res ent V alue of C os ts and B enefits (U S h)                        162.903.239.903                     -

T otal A nnual Inc om e G enerated - at poverty line rate (US D )        $         99.865.260     $      21.270.712
T otal P rojec t C os ts (U S D )                                        $         18.991.707     $      18.991.707
Net P res ent V alue of C os ts and B enefits (U S D )                   $         62.655.092     $             -

R eturn on inves tm ent                                                                   426%                  12%


As the table above demonstrates, this adjustment point appears to be about 46%. In other
words, only 46% projects would have to be successful, and each project would have to
provide poverty rate level of income for only 46% of direct beneficiaries, for the
subcomponent to generate internal rate of return that is equivalent to the assumed
opportunity cost of capital. While no such cursory evaluation would be sufficient to
clearly demonstrate that the subcomponent was economically beneficial, the adjustment
point is conservative enough (in other words, it allows for large enough percentage of
projects to be unsuccessful and still result in overall positive outcome) to allow for positive
assessment. It should also be noted that this evaluation includes only one year’s worth of
economic benefit provided by these projects. It is reasonable to assume that at least some
of these projects would continue to generate economic benefit for direct beneficiaries
beyond the one year horizon, and consequently further increase the economic value of the
project.

Besides direct economic benefits of these projects, the subcomponent also has some
additional side benefits the economic value of which is not included in the above
evaluation. Some of these benefits are:
   - Household hygiene, universal primary education enrollment rates, and some other
       indicators have improved, since they are prerequisites to access CDD funds
   - Communities are positively responding to government programs (like
       immunization, etc.) because they are a requirement to access CDD funds
   - Communities have opened accounts in financial institutions
   - Community management and procurement within groups has enhanced
       decentralization and improved accountability in local government agencies.




                                                                    34
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
Names                        Title                                Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Solomon Alemu                Consultant                           AFTU1
Agnes Kaye                   Program Assistant                    AFMUG
Daryoush Kianpour            Consultant                           MNSPS
Marie Claire M. Li Tin Yue   Senior Program Assistant             AFTU1
Rowena J. Martinez           Consultant                           AFTU1
Catherine S. McSweeney       Consultant                           SDV
Barjor E. Mehta              Lead Urban Specialist                SASDU
Lance Morrell                Consultant                           IEGPS
Naa Dei Nikoi                Operations Adviser                   LCSDE
Richard Olowo                Lead Procurement Specialist          AFTPE
Martin Onyach-Olaa           Sr Urban Specialist                  AFTU1
Zara Inga Sarzin             Sr Urban Development Specialist      AFTU1
Patrick Piker Umah Tete      Sr Financial Management Specialist   AFTME

Supervision/ICR
Solomon Alemu                Consultant                           AFTU1
Mary C.K. Bitekerezo         Sr Social Development Specialist     EASDE
Parminder P. S. Brar         Lead FM Specialist                   AFTME
Howard Bariira Centenary     Senior Procurement Specialist        AFTPE
Martin Fodor                 Senior Environmental Specialist      AFTN3
Paul Kato Kamuchwezi         Financial Management Specialist      AFTME
Agnes Kaye                   Program Assistant                    AFMUG
Rosemary B. Kyabukooli       Program Assistant                    AFMUG
Daryoush Kianpour            Consultant                           MNSPS
Marie Claire M. Li Tin Yue   Senior Program Assistant             AFTU1
Catherine S. McSweeney       Consultant                           SDV
Barjor E. Mehta              Lead Urban Specialist                SASDU
Martin Onyach-Olaa           Senior Urban Specialist              AFTU1
Jonas Ingemann Parby         Urban Specialist                     AFTU2 ICR Author
Zara Inga Sarzin             Sr Urban Development Specialist      AFTU1




                                         35
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                               USD Thousands (including
                          No. of staff weeks
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                 0                           6.5
  FY06                                28.55                      124.74
  FY07                                67.14                      323.48
  FY08                                52.35                      245.26
Total:                               148.04                      699.98
Supervision/ICR
  FY09                                48.26                      213.77
  FY10                                46.79                      261.69
  FY11                                26.24                      165.96
  FY12                                11.94                       64.69
  FY13                                13.15                       62.92
Total:                               146.38                      769.03




                                   36
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


A Beneficiary Satisfaction exercise was completed in November 2012 for a total of 180
LDG financed projects in 38 LGs (including LLGs in each LG) – representing a sample
size of 1.1% of the total number of LDG projects, and 34% of the total number of LGs. The
review team consisted of members of the MoLG PIU. The team conducted feedback
sessions with beneficiaries in each of the districts – at district level as well as at the town
council, sub country and municipal council level. A minimum of 5 projects were visited per
District/Municipality. The projects visited were in the areas of health, education, sanitation,
roads and drainage. The survey focused on quality of the goods and/or works provided,
timeliness of implementation, and sustainability of the service provided. The results of the
exercise showed that more than almost 90% of the beneficiaries were satisfied or partially
satisfied with the services provided: (i) 57% satisfactory, (ii) 28% partially satisfactory, and
(iii) 14% - not satisfactory. The main problems raised were (i) delays in project
implementation, (ii) inadequate maintenance of roads and drainage, (iii) inadequate
drainage around key community facilities, and (iv) the relative small size of facilities which
often could not meet the demand.




                                             37
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


N/A




                                     38
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Summary of Project Description
The Local Government Management and Service Delivery Project (LGMSD) designed as
the initial phase of a ten (10) year Adaptable Program Loan (APL). It aimed at providing
phased support for the implementation of the Government’s Public Financial Management
(PFM) Reform Program and the Decentralization Policy Strategic Framework (DPSF).
The project required step-by-step policy reform and institutional development. The first
phase of four (4) years commenced in FY 2008/09 and was supposed to end in FY 2011/12.
Arising out of initial delays, the project was granted a one year no cost extension to end on
December 31st, 2012. The program objective was to enhance Local Governments (LGs)
ability to plan and manage human and financial resources for effective and sustainable
delivery of local government services. The development objective for the first phase of
2008/09 to 2011/12 was to strengthen the ability of MDAs and LGs to plan and manage
resources in collaboration with communities for service delivery.

Context
The Local Government Management and Service Delivery (LGMSD) Project was designed
to give effect to the implementation of these reforms and instruments. LGMSD was also
designed to conform to the National Development Plan which is Uganda’s equivalent of a
Poverty Reduction Strategy. LGMSD was also fully aligned with and supportive of The
National Local Government Capacity Building Policy and The Peace and Recovery
Development Plan (PRDP). The Peace Recovery and Development Plan for Northern
Uganda (PRDP) became operational in the Financial Year (FY) 2008/2009.

Project Outcomes and outputs
Component 1: Strengthening Public Finance Management Systems
The objectives and expected outputs for this component were achieved. Despite the overall
improvement in the timeliness of submission of the bank reconciliations and financial
statements as a result of the roll out of IFMIS, the trend in the quality of the financial
reporting by the targeted LGs remained mixed, as measured by the audit opinions of the
OAG. These results indeed lend support to the notion that computerization of financial
management systems is a necessary but not sufficient condition for ensuring fiduciary
assurance in PFM.
Component 2: Support to LGSIP
Under the LGMSDP, the LDG was incorporated in the GoU Medium Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF) and allocated across LGs based on the weights of - 45% for
population; 40% for poverty count; and 15% for land area. As a deliberate consolidation
effort, the LDG was used to undertake complementary activities to make existing
investments more functional rather than investing in new infrastructure (service delivery
units), guided by the service delivery packages provided by sectors. A maximum of 5% of
the LDG was earmarked for re-tooling, maximum 5% for monitoring and maximum 5% for
technical support and supervision.


                                            39
Local Government Development Grant
A total of 16,066 were implemented across the various sector of education, water, health,
roads and environment, among others. LDG investments created employment and benefit
for a total of 4,687,582 direct beneficiaries (2,399,175 women and 2,288,407 men) and an
estimated 17 million indirect beneficiaries, and detailed in some of the outputs below:

Education
• A total of 13,933 classrooms were built in primary schools
• A total of 83,332 three seats desks were procured for primary school pupils resulting into
comfortable seating for 249,996 pupils.
• With the provision of desks, the teachers were able to easily maintain eye contact with the
pupils thus making it easy to teach and supervise them.
• A total of 515 staff houses (1030 Dwelling Units) for teachers were built hence providing
accommodation to approximately 1030 teachers. This has enabled the teachers to have
ample time to evaluate the pupils work and to prepare well for the lessons.

Health
• A total of 513 facilities were built in Health Centres II, III and IV.
• Staff houses totaling 352 (880 Dwelling Units) were built for the medical staff.

Sanitation
• A total of 2,734 latrines (10,936 stances) were built mainly in schools, health centres
and markets
• 267 garbage skips especially in Town Councils and Trade Centres;
• 22 sanitation lanes in Municipalities.

Water
• 1796 projects increasing access to water listed as follows: Boreholes, hand dug wells,
piped water networks, shallow wells, water tanks, Gravity Flow Schemes and protected
springs.

Roads
• 2598 km of roads were rehabilitated or constructed.
• Many LGs invested in fixing culverts on swampy parts of the roads as well swamp
raising. Others invested in building bridges; light grading, paving, graveling of roads
• Provision of streetlights

Production
• Procurement of seedlings for clonal coffee, mangoes and oranges; and cassava cuttings
for the farmers.
• Livestock investments (under CDD)
• Construction of 56 small markets and 1063 market stalls
• Improvements made to four abattoirs to improve waste management
•A total of 77 slaughter slabs were constructed and latrines and water tanks provided




                                            40
CDD - Progress and Results
The CDD cycle was formulated and implemented for the first time in Uganda. It involved
group formation or remobilisation, registration, expression of interest, household
assessment, generating community project proposal, group management assessment,
implementation of the community projects, procurement of goods and services,
accountability of funds and reporting on community project progress on a quarterly basis.
CDD provided direct community financing which went to innovative community
investments. Based on the community group and the Parish as the entry point, CDD re-
enforced the implementation of key Government policies such as the Universal Primary
Education (UPE), the National Water and Sanitation Policy and the Public Health care
policy. The flexibility of the CDD modality ensured targeting of hitherto untargeted
categories of the population such as the youth, disabled persons, and formerly internally
displaced persons.

Northern Uganda
While the implementation of this component suffered significant delays, the planned
activities were implemented and completed at the end of the project.
• Civil works: The successful implementation of the civil works has contributed immensely
to the achievement of the objective of the sub-component of the support to the LGs in
Northern Uganda, namely, to strengthen the LG institutions for improved service delivery,
good governance and Reinstating State presence in Northern Uganda. Availability of
buildings in sub-counties that had been practically abandoned by both the LGs and its
clients has rekindled life in the originally ‘dead’ sub-counties. A survey carried out by
MoLG in conjunction with the LGs established that the following impacts were closely
linked to the successful implementation of the works.
• Physical Development Plans: Physical Development Plans of thirty urban centers (25
Town Boards and 5 Town Councils) were prepared to guide physical development in the
fast growing trading centers.
• Challenges encountered: (i) insufficient capacity of local contractors causing delay in
works, (ii) time lag between the planning (2006) for the buildings and the actual
implementation of the planned activities (2010) causing escalation of costs due to price
changes in building materials, and (iii) personnel turnover causing risks to implementation
and oversight of works.
Strengthening Local Governments - Capacity Building support
This sub component broadly achieved its objectives and expected outputs. The impact of
the capacity building program is evidenced by the following:

   •   There is improved performance across all LGs in the areas of Human Resource
       Management, procurement, LG planning, records management, financial
       management, public administration, contracting, community development and
       management, M&E and resource mobilization to satisfactory levels.



                                           41
    •   The Local Governments have acquired a critical mass of professionals spread across
        all Local Governments in areas of human Resource management, public
        Administration and management, Procurement, environment management, gender
        mainstreaming, records management responsible for the streamlined systems in
        their areas of profession.
    •   There is an improved awareness of standards of service delivery in the local
        Governments with a significant improvement in service access.
    •   There is increased gender awareness in the Local Governments as evidenced from a
        huge reduction in gender disaggregated beneficiary differential.
    •   There is a marked improvement in public procurement awareness which has
        diminished related procurement queries in Local Governments.

However, in the context of the prevailing environment for decentralized service delivery, a
number of challenges remain: (i) reduced size of Capacity Building Grant provided to the
districts, (ii) low staffing levels - and (iii) Particular staff challenges in new districts: In the
newly created districts, relatively fewer staff benefited from the capacity building
initiatives as they received little CBG and for a relatively shorter period.

Component 3 – Institutional and Policy Support
This component was implemented to satisfaction with regular monitoring activities and a
careful watch on the Key Performance indicators. The Midterm review was conducted in
time and its recommendation were implemented. It should be noted that project
implementation picked real momentum after the MTR.

Major Implementation Issues and Challenges Encountered
i)      Creation of new districts. The creation of new districts which distorted the original
planned scope of works and led to delays in implementation of the IFMS tier 2 solution.
Additionally, as a result of the proliferation of the new districts, a significant proportion of
key local government positions remain unfilled and there is also a significant non-wage
recurrent cost shortfall. All these factors collectively conspired to affect the efficacy and
sustainability of the system’s implementation in the affected districts. New districts also led
to challenges in project supervision, and required extra resources. Also affected were the
staffing levels whose averages dropped at times to a dismal 9% and this invariably
impacted on project implementation. On a tougher note, the drop in staffing averages
undermined the trigger to APL II which required a staffing threshold of 75% especially for
Northern Uganda.
ii)    Upgrade of the IFMS data centre. The delay in the upgrade of the data centre, in
large part due to challenges in the conversion of the centre’s application software from
Oracle version 11 to 12. This in turn undermined the realization of optimal performance of
the IFMS system;
iii)   Lack of Ownership. Lack of ownership of the IFMS by some of the political
leadership at the districts and in so doing affecting the system’s sustainability. This




                                               42
necessitated an intensification of change management efforts in the concerned districts so
as to influence the attitudes of the political leadership towards the system;
iv)    Lack of reliable power supply. This escalated to unsustainable levels, the recurrent
costs of running the system, particularly in terms of fuel for the generator and other
incidental costs;
v)     Manpower gaps. Manpower gaps for the provision of timely and adequate on-going
application support (for at least six months) at the tier 2 roll-out sites. This subsequently
undercut the efficacy of the system at the affected sites.
vi)     Draw Down Effects of the Diminishing size of LDG and CBG. Increasingly per
capita investments for the Local Development and Capacity Building Grants dropped to
about US$ 0.75 per capita for the rural districts and around US$ 1.57 per capita for urban
local governments. As the volume of money sent to Local Governments reduced, shrinking
further after the creation of new districts the net impact was a reduction in direct
investments. Correspondingly, the overall coverage for CDD grants was quite insignificant
in comparison to the number of administrative units and community groups.
vii)   Slow uptake of mainstreamed project functions. While greater effort was put in
support MoLG to execute the mainstreamed project functions, there was equally a slow
pace in the adoption and execution of project activities. This can be attributed to workloads
of the staff, especially in the Inspectorate Department and the difference in work
requirements between precise project requirements and the more routine work of
Government.

Project Sustainability
LGMSD was consciously designed to take into consideration the sustainability of processes
and direct investments. The matrix below presents key achievements with regards to
sustainability.
Component          Observation

Public Financial       (i) Recurrent costs for Tier 1 IFMS have been mainstreamed, and external support is retained
Management                 for purposes of major ongoing interventions.
Reforms
                       (ii) Some of the recurrent costs for the Tier 2 IFMS have been mainstreamed, but significant
                            investment is still required to extend the system to over 100 eligible local governments

Local              LDGs are now part of the routine Government of Uganda (GoU) Financing Framework, under the
Development        consolidated Fund.
Grants

Capacity           CBGs are now part of the routine Government of Uganda (GoU) Financing Framework and part of
Building Grants    the Consolidated Fund. The revised Local Government Sector investment Plan provides for and
                   places emphasis on new Local Government capacity delivery and the requisite resourcing
                   framework.

Support       to   Institutional Structures strengthened through provision of permanent accommodation for critical
Northern Uganda    Lower Local Government staff. O&M costs will continuously be met from Local Government own
                   revenue. Sub-county administration headquarters, capacity Building and post trauma conflict




                                                     43
Component        Observation

                 resolution and management will strongly contribute to the re-establishment of state presence.



CDD              CDD used a group approach that was anchored on existing government systems of registration and
                 support by the Community Services Department in each Local Governments. CDD has set an
                 agenda for and reinvigorated the hitherto weak function. Emerging community safety nets are
                 largely income-based and will be self-sustaining.

Institutional    Landmark project activities such as Career Development and Professionalization have led to the
Support          creation of a critical mass of Local Government managers in the country. The National Local
                 Government capacity Building Policy is being reviewed for uptake of emerging capacity building
                 concerns. The Local Government Sector Investment Plan (LGSIP) now reviewed gives promise the
                 the Local Government capacity question and calls for resourcing.

Program          The Program Support Team worked in conjunction with the mainstream MoLG staff (who were the
Management and   Component Managers) to execute all key program functions. Increasingly this has ensured
Coordination     sustainability of project management skills.




Key Lessons Learnt
Continuity, Consolidation and Innovation – The LGMSD demonstrated a very valuable
lesson on the need for continuity that also allows innovation and new areas. The LDG
under the program was implemented under LGDP I & II. It had been adopted by the
Government as the preferred mode of financial transfers to the Local Government.
Innovations and new areas under CDD and Support to Northern Uganda offered relevance
to the entire program given their criticality in addressing some of the top outstanding
development dilemmas for the country. Critical to note is the consolidation principle upon
which the LGMSD design was based. It has ensured completion and use of hitherto stalled
or even abandoned investments.
Program Synergies with Policy and Institutional Framework – Adherence to country
systems and particularly the anchoring of the LGMSD in the Financial Management Plan
and corresponding national financial management reforms, the Local Government Sector
Investment Plan, the Decentralisation Policy Strategic Framework and the Peace, Recovery
and Development Plan increased program relevance and programming scope for the
LGMSD.
The need for a strong locus for service delivery and management - Local Government
administrations as the vanguards for service delivery need to be strong and visible. The
renovation and building of sub-county headquarters in Northern Uganda has fundamentally
improved relation between the citizens and Government. This has immensely augmented
the peace building and resettlement effort.
Conflict vs opportunities for economic regeneration – the LGMSD revealed huge
economic opportunities arising out of the conflict situation in Northern Uganda which must
be increasingly tapped. For example former Internally Displaced Peoples Camps (IDPCs)
have merged into satellite towns. Returnees especially the youth needs gainful employment



                                                     44
that may only be offered by a highly innovative and nontraditional service delivery
program.
Community Involvement for cost reduction and accountability - Involving
communities in the management of public resources leads to a reduction in the cost of
transaction while stimulating demand for rights, obligations and accountability for public
resources.

Recommendations
Constant attention to environment and natural resource management – LGMSD has
raised GoU understanding and attention to the natural resource management. The
implementation of the program revealed that all kinds of investments including “software?
activities have a direct or indirect impact on the environment. All program designs must
therefore take cognizance of this and have in-built mechanisms for addressing the emerging
concerns.
Sustainability – this must be anticipated at the design and onset of the program in order to
constantly check if sufficient attention is being paid to ensure sustainability of the process
and the investments. Equally important, program designs need to have inbuilt flexible
mechanisms for reviews and tracking.
Continuous systems security monitoring - which is especially critical during “stage one?
of Public Financial Management reform efforts. To this end, the government will engage a
consultancy firm to address the various security issues that came to the fore following the
forensic audit of the Office of the Prime Minister.

According greater priority to the revenue component of a future Public Financial
Management reform strategy. This will help ensure that the revenue base of the Local
Governments is widened and in so doing transform them into financially viable and
sustainable entities.
Adopting a more participatory approach in stakeholder consultation during the
design of subsequent PFM reform undertakings. This should entail broader consultation
with politicians as this will help ensure full support of the leadership for the system during
subsequent system roll-outs.
Review and assess CDD to ensure effective implementation and managing risks. To
secure sustainability of the CDD investments, it should be a key priority of Government to
conduct more in-depth reviews to establish the evidence on the investments, e.g. by
conducting the following: (i) An economic analysis to determine the economic benefit of
the CDD across groups and individual households, (ii) A tracer study to determine how
each of the community groups has progressed since CDD inception and beyond, and (iii) A
random impact assessment to establish whether CDD met its objectives.




                                            45
Bank Performance

Design and design Support. The Bank was instrumental in originating the initial Concept
Note on the Local Government Management and Service Delivery program. Specific input
was made on the Community Driven Development (CDD) modality, which was a new area
for Uganda. The Bank provided protracted design support through sub-component design
team leaders who worked with local counterparts at MoLG. Three preparatory missions
were fielded to augment the project preparation momentum.

Procurement. The Bank provided regular support and advice on procurement compliance
and the issuance of No Objections as appropriate. Each supervision mission ensured the
participation of a Procurement Specialist who worked with national staff. Annual
procurement audits were conducted to routinely check progress.

Financial management. Financial Management support included regular financial
performance reviews and actual replenishments. Each implementation support mission
ensured a dedicated check of the financial status and whether there was continuous
conformity to the Bank financial management procedures as agreed in the Financial
Management Manual.

Project Cost and Financing. This was done jointly with the Ministries of Local
Government and that of Finance Planning and Economic Development. Project costing
entailed appropriation of the budgets to be provided by GoU, namely the Local
Development and capacity Building Grants and determining IDA financial support. The
Bank also considered and approved all subsequent cross component cost adjustments.

Implementation. The Bank provided regular implementation support through e-
communication, supervision missions and reviews. Six dedicated financial management
and procurement reviews helped to refocus implementation during the course of the
program. In terms of Financial Management, the Bank reviewed and approved the
Financial Management Manual which formed the basis of operations in the context of the
Public Finance and Accountability Act and the Local Government Financial Regulations.

Borrower’s Performance

Design. The Government of Uganda through Ministry of Local Government and Ministry
of Local Government provided dedicated teams for the design of the LGMSD. Given the
teams’ experience in designing the first and second Local Government Development
Pprogram (LGDPI & II) and the First and Second Economic and Financial Management
Program (EFMP I & II), Uganda made very valuable input into the design process.

General Execution and Implementation. Implementation was spearheaded by two
specialized units – the Program Support Team at MoLG and the Program Coordination
Unit at MoFPED. Internal management reviews, quarterly Program Technical Committee
(PTC) meetings, backstopping teams, component implementation reviews provided regular
avenues for progress tracking. Particularly for the PTC, program implementation benefitted



                                          46
from external views of key Local Government stakeholders while its quarterly physical
rotation provided opportunity for on spot checks and cross learning. Other than some
residual activities under Component 1 and the Support to Northern Uganda, all LGMSD
activities were implemented to full completion as at December, 2012. Overall the
Government provided very robust and commendable execution and implementation effort
to the LGMSD especially in the second half of the program, after the Midterm review.

Procurement. The Program Support Team and the Program Coordination Unit had a
strong Procurement function that oversaw all procurements in liaison with the Procurement
and Disposal Units (PDUs) in the respective Ministries. This ensured timely preparation of
the procurement plans and regular follow up of specific procurements with the PDUs.
MoLG and MoFPED comprehensively participated in the procurement reviews which
helped to iron out inconsistencies in procedure and hastened subsequent processes. Other
than external delays in a major procurement for solar panels under Support to Northern
Uganda, procurement was expeditious.

Financial Management. Progressive missions noted that there was strict financial
management that followed Bank and GoU procedures. A Financial Management Manual
Agreed at program inception was followed. Financial Management Reports (FMRs) were
prepared and filed in time while a financial status report was always prepared for each of
the implementation supervision missions.

Application for replenishments was quite regular as were the Local Government financial
transfers made on a quarterly basis. Mandatory accountability was required for any
financial resources released either to MoLG staff of the Local Governments themselves.

Conclusion
Overall LGMSD contributed significantly to the implementation of the Decentralization
Policy in Uganda and within the aspirations of the National Development Plan and the
objectives were met. The implementation of the program was kept within the context of the
main theme, i.e. Local Government Management and Service delivery. While continuing
the performance based grant model, the LGMSD also sought greater community
participation and benefit through the Community Driven Development model. The
Program created a bridge between mainstream public investments and community projects.
The Support to Northern Uganda made tremendous stride to re-establish state presence
after over twenty years of war and conflict which had paralyzed state and particularly,
Local Government apparatus. While there was and continue to be overwhelming response
from NGOs and development partners to the Northern conflict, a continued absence of
Local Government institutional and physical negated this process. Through LGMSD, the
restoration of sub-county headquarters to act as a locus for development and post conflict
settlement is a major achievement of the program.
Other key successes of the program include contribution to the policy debate on the
clarification of context issues, such as the direction of the decentralization reform,
functional assignments for each LG level and dealing with emerging capacity concerns.
There were improvements on LDG and CBG by considering them as separate grants. The


                                          47
subdivision of the LDG to create a community empowerment grant was applauded as a
very strong policy response action to decentralized governance. The nationwide roll-out of
IFMS is anticipated to reduce transaction cost across government.
To a significant level, LGMSD dealt with some of the critical public sector and governance
issues in Uganda. These include among others; increasing service access through public
sector and community level investments, skills enhancement of Local Government
managers, increasing voice for the poor to demand for services and accountability,
handling post conflict trauma and resettlement and re-establishing state presence in
Northern Uganda.




                                          48
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                      49
Annex 9. List of Central and Local Government IFMIS Sites

            IFMS Central Government Sites (FY 2009/10)
  1         Ministry of ICT
  2         Ministry of East African Community Affairs
  3         Public Proc. and Disposal of Assets Authority
  4         Directorate of Ethics and Integrity
  5         NEMA
  6         Public Service Commission
  7         Judicial Service Commission
  8         Education Service Commission
  9         Health Service Commission
  10        Uganda Bureau of Statistics
  11        Law Reform Commission
  12        Inspector General of Government
  13        Electoral Commission
  14        National Planning Authority
  15        Local Government Finance Commission
  16        Uganda Police
  17        Directorate of Public Prosecution
            IFMS Central Government Sites (FY 2011/12)
  1         Mulago Hospital
  2         Blood Transfusion Services
  3         National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO)
  4         National Agricultural Advisory Services (NAADS)
  5         Uganda Prisons
  6         Butabika Hospital
  7         Lira Hospital
  8         Uganda Aids Commission
  9         Uganda Human Rights Commission
  10        Mbale Hospital
  11        Uganda Land Commission




                                                  50
              Hybrid Sites (FY 2011/12 – 2012/13)
   1          Uganda National Bureau of Standards
   2          Uganda Cancer Institute
   3          Uganda Heart Institute
   4          National Citizens and Immigration Control
   5          Uganda Tourism Board
   6          Uganda Cotton Development Organisation
   7          External Security Organisation
   8          Diary Development Authority
   9          Ministry of Trade and Industry
   10         Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife


List of Local Government Sites – Tier 2 IFMIS Roll Out

                               TIER 2 IFMS – LOCAL GOVERNMENTS

                               Iganga District Local Government
                               Kumi District Local Government
                               Luwero District Local Government
                               Mubende District Local Government
                               Nebbi District Local Government
                               Ntungamo District Local Government
                               Rukungiri District Local Government
                               Kotido District Local Government
                               Kalangala District Local Government
                               Kyenjojo District Local Government
                               Masindi District Local Government
                               Kitgum District Local Government
                               Apac District Local Government
                               Busia District Local Government
                               Kapchorwa District Local Government
                               Lugazi Town Council
                               Adjumani District Local Government
                               Bundibugyo District Local Government
                               Kisoro District Local Government
                               Pader District Local Government
                               Nakasongola District Local Government
                               Pallisa District Local Government
                               Sembabule District Local Government
                               Bugiri District Local Government
                               Hoima Municipal Council
                               Mukono Municipal Council




                                                 51
Annex 10. LGMSD – APL Triggers – and status at project closure

Triggers                            Benchmark                          Status as December 2012
1. Integrated Financial             Pilot LGs producing and            Met. The entire six pilot second tier
Management Information              submitting final accounts for      LGs are already online since March
System (IFMS) solution              audit within 3 months              2012 and the Interim Operational
operational in 6 piloted second                                        Acceptance certificate has been
tier LGs                                                               issued by GoU. The benchmark for
                                                                       submission of final account within
                                                                       three months (by September 2012)
                                                                       has been met.
2. 75% of Data Centre Support       Recruitment and training of        Met. The organizational structure of
and IFMS Focal Point                staff in AGO and MDAs              the data center has a total of 12
mainstreamed into AGO, central      completed.                         positions of which 10 are appointed
Ministries, Departments and                                            civil servants. While the help desks
Agencies (MDA).                                                        in MoFPED and MoLG are manned
                                                                       by consultants, the onsite systems in
                                                                       most MDAs and LGs are operated
                                                                       by civil servants.
3. Service delivery packages and    LGs utilizing the service          Met.      Seven service delivery
standards developed by at least 3   delivery packages and              packages have been integrated into
key line ministries.                standards.                         the Operational Manual, and
                                                                       disseminated to the LGs. A survey
                                                                       carried out in 20 sampled LGs
                                                                       revealed that 91% of projects
                                                                       implemented by LGs abided by the
                                                                       packages.
4. At least 3 sector Management     National assessment process        Met. Currently, LoGICS can
Information Systems (MISs)          utilizing the MIS                  effectively process data from Health,
integrated in the National                                             Education and Water MISs. Funds
Assessment process.                                                    have been secured to procure a
                                                                       consultant who will transform the
                                                                       current NA tool into one that will
                                                                       rely on sector MISs, to generate the
                                                                       continuous assessment reports.
5. Government continue funding      Actual release to LGs of           Met. Government is fully funding
the LDG and CBG from own            US$143.7M budgeted under           the LDG and CBG under the MTEF.
source.                             phase 1                            However, due to increase in
                                                                       population the per capita size of the
                                                                       grant is decreasing annually.
6. 75% of LG structures fully       Funding of the LG structures       Not met. The trigger could only be
funded                              included in the national budget.   achieved if (a) government provided
                                                                       more money for financing the LGs
                                                                       structure, (b) entry levels for LGs
                                                                       staff for the various positions
                                                                       reviewed to allow for more entry and
                                                                       competition, and (c) the current
                                                                       structure is reviewed and made
                                                                       leaner to fit within the existing
                                                                       budget envelop. There are a number
                                                                       of studies which will inform
                                                                       government on the policy decision.




                                                    52
Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents

LGMSD Financing Agreement
LGMSD Project Appraisal Document
Environmental and Social Management Framework, LGMSD
Resettlement Policy Framework, LGMSD
Implementation Status and Results Reports
Aide Memoires
LGMSD Mid Term Review Report, December 2010 (Technical Review)
LGMSD Mid Term Review, Summary of Review Workshop, December 2010
Review of the LGMSD in respect to existing facilities, Use of Service Delivery
Packages, and Beneficiary Satisfaction, FY08/09-FY11/12, October 2012
National Local Government Assessment Reports, 2010 and 2011 (Annual Assessment of
Minimum Conditions and Performance Measures for Local Governments)
CDD Review Reports, 2010-2012
LGMSD Implementation Completion Report (Government of Uganda)




                                         53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 40134

                                                                                                                 UGANDA
                             LOCAL GOVERNMENT MANAGEMENT AND
                                    SERVICE DELIVERY PROJECT
                                      PROJECT DISTRICTS:                                                           DISTRICT CAPITALS*                                                DISTRICT BOUNDARIES

                                      PRIOR TO JULY 1, 2009                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                      EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2009                                                       RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                      EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2010                                                       *District names are identical to District Capitals,                   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                   and are, therefore, not named on the map, except
                                                                                                                                                                                         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                   in six exceptions, e.g. “KABAROLE?.
                                                                                                                                                                                         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.




                    30°E                                                                                         32°E                                                                                  34°E
                             0        25        50      75         100 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                   SOUTH
                             0             25            50                    75 Miles
                                                                                                                                   SUDAN

4°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4°N


                                                                                                        Moyo
                                                                                                                                                         Lamwo
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kaabong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         K E N YA
                                                                                    Yumbe
                                                                                                            Adjumani
                                                                   Koboko                                                                                   Kitgum
      UGANDA
                                                                   Maracha
                                                                                               le
                                                                                           Ni




                                                                  Arua                                       Amuru                                                                                                 Kotido
                                                                                        t




                                                                                                                                             Ac
                                                                                           r
                                                                                      Albe




                                                                                                                                                hw




                                                                                                                                                               Pader          Agago




                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ok o k
                                                                                                                                                   a




                                                                                                                                 Gulu                                                         Abim
                                                                              Ora
                                                                                                        Nwoya
                                                        Zombo                                                                                                                                                                         Moroto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        an
       DE M . RE P.                                                          Nebbi                        Nile
                                                                                                                                              Kole
                                                                                                                                                                            Otuke
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   om
                                                                                               Victoria
      O F C O N GO                                                                                                                 Oyam
                                                                                                                                                        Lira
                                                                                                                                                                         Alebtong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Napak
                                                                                        Bulisa
                                                                                                                                                                                             Amuria
2°N                                                                                                  Kiryandongo                             Apac                                                      Katakwi                            Amudat         2°N
                                                                                                                                                               Dokolo                                                        Nakapiripirit
                                                                                                                                     Lake                                                           Lake
                                                                                                                                    Kwania                               Kaberamaido                        Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Salisbury Opeta
                                                                     r   t                                Masindi
                                                                  be
                                                                                                                                                                                    Soroti                        Siti
                                                                                                                                         Amolatar
                                                                                                                                                                                             Ngora   Kumi          KWEEN
                                                        Al




                                                                             Hoima                                                               Lake Kyoga                   Serere                    Bulambuli      Binyiny
                                                                                                 Kafu                        Nakasongola                                                                       Kapchorwa
                                                   ke




                                                                                                                                                                                               Bukedea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Bukwo
                                                La




                                                                                                                                                                Buyende                      Pallisa         Sironko
                                                              i                                Kyankwanzi
                                                       Nkus                                                                                                                                          Budaka             Mbale
                                   Ntoroko                                                                                                                                             Kibuku
                                                                                                                                                               Kamuli                                                           Bududa
                                                                                                            Kiboga                                                             Kaliro                 Butaleja
                                                                                                                                          Luwero                                         Busiki                               Manafwa
                                                                             Kibale                                                                                        Luuka
                        Bundibugyo                                                                                                                       Kayunga
                                 Fort Portal                                                                             Nakaseke                                                                    Tororo
                                                     Kyenjojo                                                                                                                        Iganga
                                                                                        Mubende                                                                                                 Bugiri
                            KABAROLE                               Kyegegwa
                                                                                                                                     Wakiso                                                           Busia
                                                                                                                    Mityana
                                                                                                                                                       Mukono          Jinja        Mayuge
                                                                                                                        KAMPALA                                    Buikwe               Namayingo
                                           Kamwenge
                  Kasese                                                                         Kanoni                            Mpigi
                                               Katonga                                                               A                                                   Kitamilo
                                                                                                 GOMBA            BAL Gombe
                 Lake                                                                                          AM
0°                                                                           Sembabule                      BUT                                                                                                                                           0°
               George
                                                                                                           Kalungu
                                             Ibanda                            Bukomansimbi                                                                          BUVUMA
                        Rubirizi
       Lake                                           Kiruhura                                       Masaka
      Edward                          Buhweju                                Lyantonde
                                                                                                                                Kalangala
                                                                                         Lwengo
               Mtooma
                            Bushenyi
                                        Kibingo                                                                                                                                                                                           K E N YA
                                              Mbarara
                             SHEEMA                                             Rakai
                 Rukungiri                              Isingiro

         Kanungu                      Ntungamo




               Kisoro
                        Kabale                                                                                           Lak e                                 Vic toria
                                                         TANZ AN I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                      TA NZA NIA
        RWA N DA                                                                                                 32°E                                                                                  34°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      JULY 2013
