Report No. 860a-ZA                                                              FILE  COPY
Appraisal of the
Development Bank of Zambia (DBZ)
November 19, 1975
Development Finance Companies Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Kwacha (K) 1 equals US $1.56
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB            African Development Bank
AFC            Agricultural Finance Corporation
DBZ            Development Bank of Zambia
DEG            Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft
EIB            European Investment Bank
FINDECO        State Finance and Development Corporation
INDECO         Industrial Development Corporation
KfW            Kreditanstalt f'r 1Wederaufbau
NCB            National Commercial Bank
SNDP           Second National Development Plan (1972-76)
ZAMDEV         Zambia Development Loans Scheme
ZEMCO          Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
Goverr!nent: January 1 - December 31
DBZ:         April 1 - March 31



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLV
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA       ......................................         i
SUMMARY   .     ........................                       iv
* I~~~~.   INTRODUCTION ...  ...o:.........1
II.   THE ENVIRONMENT ...1
The Industrial Sector ........... ............                  2
The Role of the Private and Parastatal Sectors ...              2
Industrial Policies and Objectives               . .            4
Prospects ...... . ..... .. ...                       .         5
The Agricultural Sector                                         5
Financial Institutions                                          6
DBZ's Role ...................................                  9
III.   THE INSTITUTION.             ... o ........                     10
Charter                    .         .         .......  10
Policies.                       ............    10
Board of Directors.                         .        .    12
Management ......... . ............................            12
Organization and Staff        . . .............                12
Procedures .......                        ......t14
IV.   RESOURCES, OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION ....             14
Resources   . .14
Operations..                                                   14
Financial Condition                   .                        15
V.   PROSPECTS ...............16
Projected Operations    ..16
Resource Position and Needs ..16
Projected Income Statements   .              .17
Projected Balance Sheets   .              .18
VI.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS   .             .18
This report was prepared by Messrs. Pieter J. M. Bulters and Tom C. Tsui on
the basis of their mission to Zambia in March 1975.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
1.   Interest Rates in Zambia
2.   List of Shareholders
3.   Operations Policies
4.   Board of Directors
5.   Organization Chart
6.   Loans Approved as of March 31, 1975
7.   Analysis of Loans Approved as of March 31, 1975
8.   Balance Sheets and Income Statements
9.   Assumptions tor Operational and Financial Forecasts 1976-1980
10.   Forecast of Operations 1976-1980
11.   Projected Income Statements 1976-1980
12.   Projected Balance Sheets 1976-1980
13.   Projected Cash Flow Statements 1976-1980
14.   Pipeline of Projects as of June 30, 1975
15.   Zambian Laws Applicable to the Proposed IFC Investment in the
Development Bank of Zambia
16.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Loan



-i -
DEVELOFMENT BANK OF ZA.MBIA
BASIC DATA
Exchange Rate: K1 equals US $1.56
Year of Establishment:  1973
Ownership: (as of October 1, 1975)
Amount
Subscribed
(K'000)
Class "tA"
Government of Zambia                               4i,500
Bank of Zambia                                        500
Zambia National Provident Fund                        500
Zambia National Building Society                      150
Zambia State Insurance Corporation Ltd.               150
National Coimercial Bank Ltd.                         100
Commercial Bank of Zambia Ltd.                        100
6,000
Class "B"
Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft                   1,500
Group of Yugoslav Banks                               30O6/
Barclays Bank of Zambia Ltd.                          200
Standard Bank of Zambia Ltd.                          200
African Development Bank                              150
Grindlays Bank International (Z) Ltd.                 100
Bank of America                                       100
Banca Nazionale del Lavoro                            100
Den Norske Kredit Bank                                 50
2,700
Proposed IFC investment                               350
Other unsubscribed "Class B" shares                   950
Total authorized and issued share capital          10,000
1/ Not yet paid-in.



-ii -
Resources Position (as of March 31, 1975)
Domestic            Foreign
Currency            Currency
(K'million)
Subscribed share capital                    8.7
Reserves and retained earnings              0.1                  -
Borrowings                                  0.1                  1.4
Total sources                               8.9                  1.4
Net fixed assets                            0.7                  -
Loan portfolio outstanding                  3.8
Undisbursed loan commitments                0.7
Total uses                                  5.2
Resources available for commitment          3.7                  1.4
Uncommitted approvals                       2.1                  -
Operations (for year ending March 31, 1975)
Number            Amount
(K million)
Approvals                                   1-4                  6.6
Commitments                                 10                   2.6
Disbursements                                6                   1.5
Operating results (for year ending March 31, 1975)
(K'000)
Gross Income                                398
Administrative Expenses                     309
Financial Expenses                           19
Net Profit                                   70
Net profit/average net worth (%)            1%
Financial Pbsition (as of March 31, 1975)    (K million)
Total assets                                7.1
Net worth                                   7.0
Debt/equity                                 0.01



-iii -
Interest Rate and Other Charges
Interest rates on DBZ's approved loans have varied between 8 11/2%
and 10 1/2%. IEZ intends to charge an average rate of 10% with a minimum
of 9% in the future.
Cormitment fee: Normally, IBZ charges 1% upon approval plus 1% of the
unwithdrawn balance on each anniversary date.



- iv -
SUMMARY
(i)       The Development Bank of Zambia (DBZ) was established in July 1973
as a statutory corporation to provide medium and long-term financing to
industrial, tourism and large agricultural projects in both the private and
public sectors. DBZ is also empowered to provide technical and promotional
assistance and management advisory services.  While some other existing
institutions provide financing to the parastatal sector, the Government wished
to establish an independent bank that would undertake thorough project analysis
and assist the private sector as well as the parastatal sector. Two Bank
missions in 1971 and 1972 studied the feasibility of such a new institution
and assisted the Government in its establishment. DBZ has a share capital of
K 10 million, 60% of which is reserved for the Government and its agencies
and 40% for private and foreign shareholders. DBZ has requested a Bank loan
of $15 million and an IFC equity investment of K 350,000 (approximately
$550,000 equivalent).
(ii)      Value-added in manufacturing has increased by over 14% p.a. since
1971 and, in 1974, the industrial sector contributed 13% to GDP. Although
it is heavily oriented towards the domestic market and largely depends on
imported inputs, it is after agriculture the most promising alternative to
Zambia's mining economy. Public sector enterprises in manufacturing are con-
trolled by INDECO, the parastatal holding company for industry. In 1974, they
accounted for half of the sector's value-added and employment. The Government
wants INDECO to consolidate its present operations and improve its efficiency.
Although the Government has taken an active role in industry through INDECO,
the private sector continues to grow.
(iii)     Despite Zambia's potential for agriculture, the agricultural sector
still accounts for only 10% of GDP and Zambia still needs to import 40% of
its food requirements. Especially in view of Zambia's difficult economic
condition, the Government is keen to reduce its dependence on food imports.
Commercial farming already provides 60% of marketed domestic produce and
offers the best short-term prospects for increased agricultural production.
(iv)      As of October 1975, DBZ had approved 32 loans for K12.6 million; it
had not made any equity investments as of that date. DBZ has been successful
in tapping some local and foreign resources. It has financed projects in a
wide variety of sectors. Most of DBZ's projects are in the private sector
and the amount of DBZ's assistance is about equally divided between private
and parastatal projects. Although the Government holds the majority of DBZ's
share capital, DBZ is free from Government interference in its day-to-day
management and selection of projects. The projects financed by DBZ appear
econom!cally sound. DBZ's Statement of Policies is satisfactory.



-v -
(v)       DBZ has good management and a professional staff of thirty (eight
of whom are expatriates). DBZ is keen to reduce its reliance on expatriates
and has begun a program to train its new Zambian staff. Two DBZ staff members
have attended EDI courses and more candidates are expected in the future.
(vi)      DBZ forecasts an active operational program in the next five years
with expected approvals of K10 million in FY 1976 and increasing to K12.3
million in FY 1977 and K15.5 million in FY 1978. These plans include modest
levels of equity financing. DBZ has a well-filled pipeline; almost all pro-
jects are private and more than half of DBZ's financing would go to private
projects. DBZ expects to enhance its economic and financial impact by under-
taking syndication of financing for industrial projects of national signifi-
cance to which it can make only limited financial contributions. As Zambia
faces severe resource constraints brought on by declining copper prices, DBZ's
growing project appraisal expertise will be invaluable in efficiently allocat-
ing scarce resources.
(vii)     DBZ is a suitable and creditworthy borrower for a Bank loan of
$15.0 million equivalent. The loan would cover one half of DBZ's estimated
foreign resource needs through early 1978 and represent about one third of
DBZ's overall commitments. DBZ expects to obtain the remainder of its re-
source needs from other foreign and domestic lenders.
(viii)    Recognizing DBZ's expected cost of borrowings, modest forecast pro-
fitability during the initial years, and the need to build up reserves, it is
recommended that DBZ be granted concessionary tre?atment of commitment charges.
An individual free limit of $250,000 and an aggregate free limit of $3.0
million are recommended.
(ix)      An IFC investment of K 350,000 (equivalent to about US$550,000) in
DBZ's share capital is also recommended. DBZ has been designed as a coopera-
tive venture between the Government, private and foreign investors and an IFC
equity investment is desired both to help complete the financing of DBZ's
share capital reserved for private and foreign shareholders as well as to
enable DBZ to benefit from IFC's experience and advice that can be important
in the development of DBZ's policies and operations through IFC representation
on its Board of Directors. Although the Government controls the majority of
DBZ's share capital, the Government is keen to have DBZ operate independently
and on a commercial basis.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Development Bank of Zambia (DBZ) was established in July 1973
as a statutory corporation to provide financial and technical assistance to
industrial, tourism and large agricultural projects. DBZ's establishment had
been recommended to the Government by two Bank missions in 1971 and 1972 which
studied the feasibility of such a new institution.  DBZ has requested a Bank
loan and an IFC investment.  This report appraises DBZ and recommends a loan
of US$15.0 million, and an equity investment of K 350,000 (approximately
*          $550,000), equivalent to 3.5% of DBZ's share capital and 9% of the share capital
reserved for private and foreign investors.
1.02      Objectives.  The major objectives of the proposed loan and invest-
ment are:
(i)  to provide appropriate medium - and long-term financing to
medium to large-scale industrial projects which meet sound
economic, financial, and technical standards. This is
particularly important in view of the country's growing
scarcity of funds for industrial investments and the fact
that DBZ is essentially the only financial institution in
Zambia providing medium and long-term financing to private
industry; and
(ii)  to assist in the development of DBZ as an effective development
institution by further strengthening its appraisal capacity.
II. THE ENVIRONMENT
2.01      The economic situation of Zambia is analyzed in the "Economic
Position and Prospects of Zambia," report number 4A-ZA dated December 26, 1972.
A basic economic mission visited Zambia in June/July 1975. This report
reflects the mission's preliminary findings.
2.02      Zambia has a population of 4.8 million, which is growing at an
annual rate of 2.9 per cent. In 1974, GDP amounted to K1.8 billion, equi-
valent to US$585 per capita. During the first three years of the Second
National Development Plan (1972-1976), GDP in real terms grew at 3.6% p.a.,
only slightly above the growth rate in population and substantially below
the Plan's target of 7.4%.
2.03      Zambia's economy is dominated by copper mining which, in 1974,
accounted for 41% of GDP, 16% of total wage employment, 40% of Government
revenue and 96% of export earnings. From 1964-1974, the annual production
of copper has fluctuated between a low of 616,000 tons (1967) and a high of
748,000 tons (in 1969); it was 700,000 tons in 1974. More important were
the fluctuations in copper prices which ranged between K718 (in November 1972)
and K1,950 (in April 1974) per ton; recently the price has been between
K750-K800/ton.



-2-
2.04      The sensitivity of the economy to the fluctuations in copper revenue
emphasizes the urgency for Zambia to diversify its economy. Agriculture
accounts for only 10% of GDP but holds much potential. Development of the
sector requires improvement in planning, changes in pricing policies, and im-
provement of extension services and credit facilities. After agriculture,
industry is the next most promising alternative to mining.
The Industrial Sector
2.05      At independence in 1964, most industries of the former Federation
with Southern Rhodesia and Nyasaland were located in what is now Rhodesia.
Since then the importance of Zambia's manufacturing sector has increased
substantially. Despite setbacks from the closure of the border with Rhodesia
in 1973, value added in manufacturing increased by 14.4% p.a. since 1971,
almost matching the Plan target of 14.7% p.a. Most of the recent industrial
growth has taken place in consumer goods industries such as textiles and
wearing apparel, which grew at 18.5% p.a. during 1972-74 compared with an
annual growth of 5.5% in chemicals and stagnation in non-consumer goods sub-
sectors such as non-metallic minerals. During these years, some ambitious
new projects, such as a large vehicle assembly plant and a synthetic textile
plant, were implemented; these have contributed little to foreign exchange
savings as most of the inputs must still be imported.  In 1974, manufacturing
output amounted to K255 million and accounted for 13% of GDP. Food and beve-
rages accounted for 33% of value added in manufacturing, followed by fabrica-
ted metal products (21%), and textiles and wearing apparel (11%). At present,
there is little industrial activity related to the copper industry and this
is a subsector with some potential.
2.06      Industrial employment in Zambia is currently about 45,000 compared
to a national labor force of approximately 1.5 million. The food, beverage
and tobacco industry accounts for one-third of industrial employment, textiles
and apparel for 20%, and metal fabrication (including machinery) for 17%.
One of the Government's major objectives is to increase wage employment. Tne
SNDP aimed at 20,000 additional jobs per year, including 5,000 in manufacturing.
2.07      Over ninety percent of all industrial enterprises, employing a
similarly high percentage of the industrial labor force are located in the
Copperbelt, where all the mining activities are centered, and along the "line-
of-rail" that connects the Copperbelt with the south and which includes
Lusaka. Any dispersion away from these areas is contingent upon infrastructure
development.
The Role of the Private and Parastatal Sectors
2.08      Following independence, the Government had little control over the
large, foreign-owned private sector which dominated all major aspects of
mining, manufacturing, commerce, and banking. In 1966, on the grounds that
Zambianization was too slow and investment insufficient, the Government directed



- 3 -
the Industrial Development Corporation (INDECO) to participate on its behalf
in the industrial sector. INDECO's activities greatly expanded after the
Government decided, in 1968, that it would henceforth have a controlling in-
terest in all major industries. As of March 1974, INDECO comprised 60 subsid-
iaries and associated firms with net assets of K250 million and annual sales
of K330 million.  They included all major industries and accounted for half of
value added and employment in the industrial sector. These companies are
grouped into six areas: brewing and distilling, building supplies and engin-
eering, manufacturing, chemicals, rural enterprises, and a miscellaneous
group.
2.09      INDECO itself is a subsidiary of the Zambia Industrial and Mining
Corporation (ZIMCO), which is the overall holding company for the Government's
investments in all sectors of the economy. ZIMCO operates through various
subsidiaries like INDECO for the indLc6rial sector and FINDECO for the financial
sector. The President himself is Chairman of ZIMCO's Board of Directors, which
further includes the Ministers of all relevant ministries and the Managing
Directors of the various subsidiaries.
2.10      INDECO's profit for 1974 was about 9% of year end net assets and
17% of its net worth. INDECO's profit figures are of limited usefulness,
however, since profits of many of its companies are determined largely by
Government decisions on prices and, in some cases, offsetting subsidies.
INDECO's investments average K30 million per annum or two-thirds of total in-
dustrial investment. Most of the investment is financed by funds generated
within the group; the second most important source is local financial institu-
tions. Local financial institutions consider INDECO a prime risk, especially
because of its backing by the Government, and are important sources of funds
especially when they have a high liquidity. For large investments, INDECO also
obtains suppliers' credits and other foreign financing.
2.11      INDECO promotes and develops projects for its subsidiaries.
Because INDECO relies little on government financing, its investment de-
cisions are taken independently except for some major projects such as the
vehicle assembly and nitrogen fertilizer plants.
2.12      Private initiative and capital are still playing an important role
in medium scale enterprises. Such enterprises benefit from the natural
protection afforded by Zambia's geographic location and from import duties
imposed to protect domestic producers and also for balance of payments reasons.
In 1972, the private sector accounted for one half of value added and employment
in the manufacturing sector. Much of these private holdings are in the Copperbelt
area. Privately controlled enterprises constitute the majority in textiles and
wearing apparel, chemicals, fabricated metal products and industries ancillary
to the mining sector. (IFC has assisted two private enterprises in Zambia. It
has made two equity investments totalling $2.3 million in Zambia Bata Shoe
Company Ltd. and a loan and an equity investment totalling $1.0 million in
Century Packages Ltd).



-4-
2.13      There is relatively scant information available on small-scale in-
dustry in Zambia. The subsector employs less than 20% of industrial workers.
Like all industry, small industries (employing 50 or less) are concentrated
in the urban centers in the Copperbelt and along the line-of-rail. Small
enterprises are most active in clothing, printing and publishing, and struc-
tural metal products.
Industrial Policies and Objectives
2.14      The Government's major objective for manufacturing is import sub-
stitution of food products and some consumer goods. The Second National
Development Plan also emphasizes (i) greater capacity utilization, (ii)
further processing of raw materials from agriculture and mining, (iii) creation
of additional employment, (iv) establishment of rural small-scale industries,
and (v) promotion of industrial exports. The Government would like INDECO to
consolidate its operations and, except for undertaking some large projects,
Improve its efficiency rather than expand. The President has recently reaf-
firmed that the private sector has a role to play, especially in small and
medium size enterprises. The Government retains the right to nationalize
enterprises which, because of their size, are of a national interest but has
committed itself to pay in such cases fair and prompt compensation.
2.15      An Industrial Establishment Licensing Act and an Investment Code
are being prepared. Licensing of new ventures is not legally required, but
most medium and large Zambian and foreign entrepreneurs request authorization
from the Ministry of Mines and Industry and submit information about their
intended investment such as ownership, financing plan, and employment (Zambians
and non-Zambians), to facilitate obtaining concessions and permission to
repatriate future earnings.
2.16      Government incentives mainly consist of tariff protection.  Import
duties range from 0-100% in respect of finished goods and from 0-15% for
intermediate goods and raw materials.  Capital goods are subject to a 5% duty.
All dutiable goods are also subject to a 10% sales tax which applies to some
local manufactures as well.. There are also quantitative restrictions which are
primarily aimed at preserving foreign exchange.
2.17      Corporate income tax in Zambia is 45%.  Interest, dividends, and
royalties paid to non-residents from countries without a double taxation
agreement with Zambia are subject to a withholding tax of 20%; payments to
other non-residents are subject to 10% for interest and 15% for other payments.
Foreign shareholders may repatriate each year up to 10% of their paid up
capital or 30% of net profits accruing to them, whichever,is less.



-5-
Prospects
2.18      Despite Zambia's small domestic market, the need to import most in-
dustrial raw materials and the scarcity of entrepreneurs, industrial develop-
ment has proceeded at a remarkable pace (para 2.05). Looking to the future,
the Government is eager to diversify the economy by expanding the industrial
*          base.  As the Government would like INDECO to consolidate its existing opera-
tions and concentrate on a few large projects, the private sector will conti-
nue to have an important role to play in Zambia's industrialization process.
The Agricultural Sector
2.19      The Government's objectives regarding the agricultural sector have
been consistently stated since Zambia attained independence in 1964. Both
the First and the Second National Development Plans emphasized the following
objectives: (i) to increase rural incomes and thereby redress the rural-urban
income disparity, (ii) to become self-sufficient in foodstuffs and cotton,
and (iii) to diversify the economy and widen the export base by producing
agricultural surpluses. Underlying the first objective are social justice and
a pressing desire to curb the rural-urban exodus, in order to avoid overeencen-
tration of population and urban unemployment.
2.20      The objectives are reasonable, and Zambia has adequate land resources
and sufficient effective demand to attain practically all of them. However,
progress towards the Government's goals during the first decade of independence
has been very slow. Output of the agricultural sector has grown at the average
rate of only 1.7 percent per annum over the last 10 years. Real incomes have
not increased and the terms of trade for the Zambian farmers have fallen over
20 percent in the last decade. Zambia is far from being self-sufficient in
either food or agricultural raw-material requirements. Currently about 40 per-
cent by value of Zambia's marketed food is imported and in 1974 food imports
cost the country K 43 million.  The import items are mostly beef and dairy
products, barley, wheat, rice, edible oil and cotton, all of which can be pro-
duced in Zambia. The immediate task of the sector, therefore, remains to fill
the growing gap between domestic demand and supply of agricultural produce.
As the gap is filled by imports, the problem becomes critical in times of low
foreign exchange earnings as Zambia is currently experiencing.
2.21      A unique characteristic of the sector is its dualism.  On one extreme,
there are about 600,000 smallholder subsistence farmers, using hand tools and
traditional technology.  These farmers produce primarily for their own sub-
sistence requirements with a little marketable surplus from which they derive
very meagre incomes. Average family sales are estimated at only about $85 a
year (these farmers produce mostly cotton, maize, groundnuts, and free-grazed
beef).
2.22      On the other extreme, there are large state and company farms and an
economically important group of about 600 commercial farmers. These are
located on state land under leasehold. Their area occupies about 3 percent
of Zambia. Their farms are large and the land is fair. They are close to the



-6-
the line of rail and have good access to market.  These farmers use modern
methods to produce cereals, dairy products, beef, poultry and eggs for the urban
market and tobacco for export.  They consist of experienced expatriate and
Zambian commercial farmers and a new but growing group of innovative Zambian
farmers known as "emergent farmers".
2.23      Commercial farming (public and private, Zambian and non-Zambian)
accounts for 60 percent of the total marketed domestic produce, including 60
percent of maize, 35 percent of beef and over a half of the country's milk,
pork and tobacco.  This subsector can respond rapidly and has the potential
for significantly increasing its production in a relatively short period.
Moreover, certain areas of agriculture, like large scale wheat growing,
ranching and processing, require skills which can best be handled by this
subsector for some time to come. The Government has acknowledged these
facts. To encourage commercial farmers, the Government granted them several
fiscal incentives at the beginning of the last Zambian fiscal year. There are,
however, various constraints to increasing agricultural production by this
subsector and agricultural credit is one of them. DBZ will contribute towards
reducing this particular constraint, by making financial resources available
to medium and large scale agricultural enterprises for production and process-
ing. The task of small scale agricultural financing will remain with the
Agricultural Finance Company of Zambia (see para. 2.35).
2.24      The recent Bank Agricultural and Rural Sector Survey Mission (see
Report No. 841a-ZA).has proposed a new strategy for the sector. The strategy
identifies two urgent needs, namely to increase agricultural production and
lessen dependence on imports and to carry out country-wide rural development
by concentrating limited resources in areas of high growth potential. The
mission identified several constraints to both.  The major constraints
related to pricing policies, organization of administration and services,
and the marketing system. The Bank is discussing with the Government a
series of changes which are needed on key policy issues to overcome these
constraints. It is expected that an action program and identification of
specific projects will follow, and will lead to increased production and overall
rural development.
Financial Institutions
2.25      The small stock exchange which operated when Zambia was part of the
Federation with Southern Rhodesia and Nyasaland, no longer exists. The Bank
of Zambia, which is the central bank, has been the major force in the capital
market through issuance of government securities and bonds. Underwriting of
securities can be done by commercial banks; however, the market is small and
shares in only a few companies, such as Zambia Bata Shoe Company Ltd., have
been sold to the public in Zambia.
2.26      There are a large number of financial institutions.  In addition
to the Bank of Zambia, they comprise four commercial banks and six specia-
lized institutions other than DBZ. The largest commercial bank and all



- 7 -
specialized institutions are goveQ -ment controlled. Except for the National
Savings and Credit Bank, all institutions are involved in financing the in-
dustrial sector. While they may overlap on occasion in industrial financing,
more often they supplement each other. Interest rates charged on medium to
long-term loans range between 7.5%-10.25% p.a., with the majority being bet-
ween 8-9%. Annex 1 summarizes the interest rates paid and charged by the
various institutions.
2.27      Commercial Banks.  The State-owned commercial bank is the National
Commercial Bank (NCB) which, after being merged with the smaller Commercial
Bank of Zambia in March, 1975, has become the largest in the country with
assets exceeding K200 million. It is expected to handle the bulk of the
commercial banking business of the parastatals. The three private banks are
subsidiaries of Barclays, Standard, and Grindlays. In 1974, Barclays held
assets of K196 million while Standard held K164 million. Grindlays is the
smallest but is the most active in underwriting.
2.28      Commercial banks have granted loans of up to five years for indus-
trial projects during times of amr's liquidity such as in 1973, when copper
prices were high. However, due tu the Government's decision in January 1974
to encourage importers to use local rather than foreign banks, together with
the drastic reduction of copper prices in late 1974, commercial banks'
liquidity has become very tight. Consequently, they prefer to provide
short-term financing and leave medium- to long-term financing to specialized
institutions, such as DBZ. The commercial banks possess no project appraisal
capacity. Their medium- to long-term loans carry interest rates between 8.5-
10.0% p.a., with the majority at 9.0%.
2.29      In 1974, Barclays introduced a program called the Zambia Development
Loans Scheme (ZAMDEV) to assist small well-established farmers, traders, and
manufacturers with 3-5 year loans between K500-5,000 at 9% p.a. The program
has been successful; over K420,000 have been loaned to 168 borrowers even
though no manufacturing loan has yet been made. Despite its preliminary
success, however, Barclays' liquidity constraint limits the future scope of
the program.
2.30      Specialized Institutions.  The six specialized institutions other
than DBZ are the National Building Society, Zambia National Provident Fund,
Zambia State Insurance Corporation, National Savings and Credit Bank, Agricultural
Finance Corporation, and Industrial Finance Corporation. With the exception
of the Zambia Provident Fund and Agricultural Finance Corporation, these institu-
tions, as well as the National Commercial Bank, are subsidiaries of the State
Finance and Development Corporation (FINDECO), which is the Government's holding
company for financial institutions.
2.31      The Building Society was formed after nationalization of three pri-
vate building societies in 1971. It obtains funds through savings shares and
deposits from the general public and loans from other institutions. As of
March 31, 1974, its resources totalled K88 million, of which K63 million were



-8-
invested in mortgage loans and the remainder in Government securities, deposits
with commercial banks, and non-Government securities. Its industrial financing
consists of mortgage financing of industrial buildings for 15 years at 9.0-
10.25% p.a.
2.32      The Zambia National Provident Fund is a statutory board which admin-
isters a compulsory retirement savings scheme for Zambian employees. Its total
assets as of January 1975 were K120 million.  Forty-three percent of its funds
were invested in Government bonds, 22% in industrial loans (including loans to
INDECO), six percent in industrial equity investments and the remainder in
municipalities and parastatals such as the Building Society. Loans of the
Fund have maturities between 10-20 years and carry interest rates between
7.5-8.5% p.a. The Fund has no appraisal capacity and lends on the basis of
security or guarantees. It is interested in lending to DBZ or financing large
projects jointly with it. Its current policy permits it to invest 40% of its
surplus funds or about K10 million per year in parastatals and other commercial
and industrial enterprises. It has recently agreed to lend to DBZ K 1 million
for 20 years at an interest rate of 7.5% p.a.
2.33      The Zambia State Insurance Corporation was formed in 1971 after
a merger of all existing insurance companies. As of December 31, 1973, the
corporation's resources totalled K48 million, of which K29 million was
invested in Government bonds, loans (including mortgages), and various in-
dustrial and commercial investments; the rest consisted mostly of current
assets (funds on deposit) and some fixed assets. One-fifth of its assets
are related to industry. It expects to annually invest between K3-4 million
in industrial loans and investments. Having no project evaluation capacity
of its own, the corporation would prefer to join a larger consortium for
such endeavors. It is also considering the possibility of lending to DBZ.
The corporation charges 8.0-9.0% p.a. on term loans of up to 10 years.
2.34      The National Savings and Credit Bank, known as the Post Office
Savings Bank until 1973, receives deposits from the general public for which
it pays 3.75% p.a. It is empowered to make loans and investments in manu-
facturing and other enterprises, but has not done so; instead, it holds nearly
two-thirds of its assets, which totalled K13 million, in the Building Society,
and the remainder in commercial banks and Government securities.
2.35      The Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) was established in 1970
as a subsidiary of the Rural Development Corporation which is a parastatal
holding company under the Ministry of Rural Development; it is primarily a
credit organization. AFC obtains its resources from the Government which
has provided K13 million in interest-free long-term funds, annual subsidies
of K500,000 to cover AFC's operating losses and, indirectly, K5 million by
transferring at K1 million a loan portfolio from AFC's predecessor on which
AFC has collected K4 million and expects to collect another K2 million. AFC
has lent between K8-10 million p.a., 95% of which has been in seasonal credit,



-9-
mostly in kind. AFC charges an interest rate of 8.0% p.a. The default rate
on AFC's loans is high; as of December 31, 1973, it had to make provisions
equal to half the loan portfolio outstanding.
2.36      The Industrial Finance Company was established in 1969 as an INDECO
subsidiary to finance small commercial and industrial enterprises. It was
transferred to FINDECO in 1971. It obtains its resources from commercial
banks, the Government, and parastatals such as the Zambia State Insurance
Corporation; except for Government funds which are subsidized, the bulk of the
Company's resources costs between 7.5-8.5% p.a. The Industrial Finance Company
has concentrated on financing the Zambianization of retail businesses and has
neglected industrial financing. More recently, it has expanded its activities
into hire-purchase financing of private and commercial vehicles, industrial
plants, and various equipment and machinery; it intends to start leasing
operations. Hire-purchase activities now account for 55% of the Industrial
Finance Company's operations which amount to Kl million per annum. Lending
to commercial enterprises represent 40% and industrial enterprises only 5%.
Loans of the Industrial Finance Company have a maximum maturity of 5 years
and carry interest rates between 9-10% p.a. Although it has no upper financ-
ing limit, the Company is expected to serve primarily small enterprises (its
industrial loans average K40,000). Due to a variety of difficulties such as
a high default rate on its loans, continuing operating losses, and shortage
of staff, the effectiveness of the Industrial Finance Company is limited,
particularly in industrial financing.
DBZ's Role
2.37      While most financial institutions provide some medium- and long-term
financing on the basis of security, DBZ is the only institution in Zambia which
concentrates on medium- and long-term financing of productive enterprises and
which has a staff capable of appraising projects. Private projects depend on
DBZ for financing whereas parastatals can sometimes obtain financing at better
terms from the other financial institutions when these are liquid. Although
many parastatal projects are too large for financing by DBZ or another insti-
tution alone, DBZ can play a useful role by appraising such projects and
inviting other institutions to participate in the financing.
2.38      DBZ was established to finance medium- and large-scale enterprises.
DBZ is not intended to serve the small-scale industry and agriculture
sectors. Because of the special nature of agricultural credit, it is rec-
ommended that DBZ restrict itself to commercial agriculture and that the
Government strengthen AFC and expand its activities to provide medium- and
long-term financing for small farmers. Unless DBZ is properly equipped for
financing small scale industry, the Government should consider strengthening
the Industrial Finance Company for this function.



- 10 -
III. THE INSTITUTION
Charter
3.01      DBZ was established as a statutory corporation in July 1973 under a
Development Bank Act and commenced operations in January 1974. According to
its charter, DBZ's main function is to provide medium and long-term loan and
equity financing for industrial, large agricultural, and tourism projects.
DBZ's charter also allows it to provide technical and promotional assistance
and management advisory services.
3.02      DBZ has an authorized share capital of K 10 million consisting of
600 "Class A" shares and 400 "Class B" shares of K 10,000 each. The "Class
A" shares are reserved for the Government and its agencies and have been fully
subscribed and paid-in. The "Class B" shares are reserved for private and
foreign shareholders. Eight institutions and a group of Yugoslav Banks
have subscribed K 2.7 million out of the K 4 million "Class B" shares. Annex
2 shows a list of DBZ's shareholders. DBZ has requested an IFC investment in
its share capital. An investment of K 350,000 (approximately US$550,000
equivalent) is being proposed. This would make IFC the second largest "Class
B" shareholder after the Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft (DEG). DBZ is
also discussing subscription of the remaining "Class B" shares with other in-
stitutions.
3.03      The Government has the formal power to exercise control over DBZ.
It owns directly and through various of its agencies about 60% of DBZ's share
capital; the Minister of Planning and Finance nominates six of DBZ's ten
Board members, including the Chairman and Managing Director; the Act empowers
him to give the Board general directions concerning DBZ's policy as he may
deem necessary and appropriate in the public interest. In practice, however,
the Government is keen to have DBZ operate independently and has not inter-
fered in DBZ's operations. The Government has supported adoption of a State-
ment of Policies that establishes sound guidelines for DBZ's business as well
as the establishment of a broadly based Board. Indeed Government representa-
tives on DBZ's Board include two private businessmen. DBZ's independence is
evidenced by its rejection of several parastatal projects, some of which had
Government support. DBZ's management expects that IFC's investment and
assistance will enhance DBZ's effectiveness.
Policies
3.04      DBZ has recently adopted a Statement of Policies (see Annex 3),
which covers, inter alia, the following policies:
(i) Criteria for DBZ's assistance. DBZ's financing will be
limited to projects which are financially viable, technically
feasible and meet certain economic criteria. DBZ will give
equal priority to parastatal and private projects;



- 11 -
(ii)  Financing limits.  According to the Statement of Policies
DBZ will normally finance no more than 75% of the
borrower's fixed assets, excluding permanent working
capital. The Statement of Policies restricts DBZ's equity
investment in a single enterprise to 5% of DBZ's net worth
or 25% of the share capital of the recipient, whichever is
less, and DBZ's aggregate equity investments to 25% of DBZ's
net worth.   These limits on equity investments are more re-
strictive than the relevant limits in the Act, which are
10%, 25% and 100%, respectively, and reflect DBZ's con-
servative attitude towards equity investments (see also
paras 3.14 and 5.03). The Act limits DBZ's commitments
to a single enterprise between a minimum of K 25,000 and
a maximum of 20% of DBZ's net worth;
(iii) Security requirements. In the past. DBZ has required
collateral of at least twice the amount of its loan. This
was very restrictive. Other local institutions, which do
not appraise projects and rely entirely on security,
require between 100 and 125%. The Statement of Policies
merely requires DBZ to obtain adequate security. DBZ intends
to use this flexibility in its security reqjuirements;
(iv)  Interest Rate Policy.  In the past. interest rates on DBZ7s approve(i
loans have varied between 8-l/2 and 1O-l/2,S.  Because of dilfferences
in the cost of its resources, competitiveness, and differences in
risk, DBZ will continue to charge flexible interest rates. DBZ in-
tends that, to reflect DBZ's increasing cost of capital, its future
lending rate will average 10% with a minimum of 9%. Given the cost
of Bank funds, DBZ plans to on-lend the proposed Bank loan at 10-l11%.
This will not present any problem in utilizing the proceeds from the
proposed Bank loan as funds available to DBZ are limited. Recently,
DBZ has charged 10-1/2% for some highly profitable industrial projects,
9-12% for some agricultural projects, and 9% for some large parastatal
projects where it participated in a consortium which charged lower
rates. DBZ's lending rates seem reasonable in relation to the likely
cost of funds and the inflation rate, which has been relatively low
(about 7.5% p.a. during the last three years). DBZts interest rate
would be only slightly higher than the rate of other institutions
(8-l A %-9%). DBZ also charges a commitment fee equal to one percent
of the loan amount approved plus one percent of the withdrawn balance
on each anniversary date;
(v)  Repayment period.  DBZ's loans have a minimum maturity of
two years and maximum maturity of 15 years;
(vi)  Borrowing policy and debt/equity limitation. The DBZ Act
limits DBZ's debt to seven times its net worth. During
negotiation, DBZ has agreed to limit its debt/equity ratio
for the time being to 4:1. According to the projections,
DBZ's debt/equity ratio would not reach 4:1 until March 31,
1980.



-12-
(vii) Foreign exchange risk. DBZ's statemient of policies pre-
cludes it from assuming the foreign exchange risk on its
operations.  The possibility of the Government assuming tle.
foreign exchange risk has been under discussion but it IIOW
appears likely that DBZ will pass the exchange risk onto :its
sub-borrowers.
3.05      DBZ is presently establishing a Special Development Fund to finance
projects in rural areas on concessionary terms. DBZ's general security and
interest rate policies will probably not apply to these operations, which
DBZ plans to finance from separate soft resources.  DBZ has already obtained
K 3.1 million from two bilateral aid agencies.
Board of Directors
3.06      DBZ's Board of Directors has 10 members.  The Government appoints
six Directors, including the Chairman and the Managing Director, while "Class
B" shareholders are to appoint four Directors, including the Deputy Chairman.
Annex 4 shows a list of DBZ's directors. The Government has appointed as its
representatives the Permanent Secretary of Planning and Finance (Chairman), DBZ's
Managing Director, the Economic Advisor to the President, the Managing Director
of INDECO, and two private businessmen. The "Class B" shareholders have, in
the interim, appointed only one director, a representative of one of the local
commercial banks. DBZ expects additional representatives of "Class B" share-
holders to be nominated in due course. To facilitate IFC's assistance in
developing the policies and operations of DBZ, it is proposed that IFC be rep-
resented on DBZ's Board. This proposal has the necessary support of a number
of "Class B" shareholders. The Board meets about once every two months. It
has established an Investment Committee consisting of four Directors to whom
it has delegated the approval of loans up to K 100,000.
Management
3.07      DBZ's management consists of a Managing Director and a General
Manager. The Managing Director was previously a Director of the African
Development Bank and an Under Secretary in the Ministry of Finance. He pro-
vides DBZ with dynamic leadership. The General Manager was previously one of
the general managers of Den Norske Kredit Bank and has been made available
for two years to DBZ through NORAD.
3.08      DBZ has a Loan Committee which is chaired by the Managing Director
and includes the General Manager and all department heads. All projects must
be approved by the Loan Committee before they can be presented to the Invest-
ment Committee or the Board. The General Manager heads a staff recruitment
committee, which includes all department heads and recommends candidates for
employment to the Managing Director.
Organization and Staff
3.09      Annex 5 shows DBZ's organization chart and the staff allocated to
each department. DBZ's professional staff totals 30, including eight ex-
patriates in senior positions. Four of them are financed through bilateral
assistance. The terms of most expatriates expire in mid-1976 and DBZ is



- 13 -
looking for replacements.  DBZ is keen to reduce its reliance on expatriates.
It plans to fill most vacant positions with Zambian nationals and has charged
one of the expatriates with establishing and conducting a training program for
the new Zambian staff.  During the last year, two DBZ staff members have
attended EDI courses; DBZ is looking for continued EDI support to train the
Zambian staff.
3.10      Operations Department.  This department is in charge of project
appraisal, including engineering studies, and follow up. It is headed by a
former Deputy General Manager of the Industrial Development Bank of India.
3.11      DBZ's processing time is short, usually 3-4 months.  Project
appraisals, which have been of uneven quality in the past, are generally
Improving. DBZ has recently prepared a standard format including guidelines
for various financial calculations. The market and financial analysis are
reasonable. Until recently, DBZ did not make a comprehensive analysis of the
economic aspects of its projects. DBZ has now decided, however, to calculate
the economic rate of return for all projects exceeding K 160,000. The economic
analysis is particularly important as most of DBZ's projects are for import
substitution and as no Government agency takes a comprehensive look at the
economic aspects of projects.
3.12      DBZ has begun to follow up on some of its projects for which dis-
bursements have been made but has not yet established a systematic follow-
up system. DBZ is aware of the importance of supervision and has recently
recruited an officer and two assistants for this task.
3.13      Promotion and Planning Department.  The department is headed by
an economist provided from bilateral assistance. Its main function is project
identification and promotion but, so far, it has concentrated on policy for-
mulation, preparation of background papers and market studies for the opera-
tions department.
3.14      With regard to project promotion, the major contribution of this
department will probably be in the refinement of the project proposals which
are not yet fit for financing when they are presented to DBZ. Most of these
projects are expected to be private as parastatals have their own staff to
develop projects. DBZ has not yet made any equity investments as its manage-
ment has understandably wanted to build up a fairly strong and quick yielding
portfolio in order to get DBZ off to a sound start. However, to become
effective in project promotion, DBZ must become more willing to take equity
participations.
3.15      Finance Department.  The head of this department is an experienced
expatriate who previously occupied a similar position with the Tanzania Invest-
ment Bank. Besides the preparation of financial statements, budget and finan-
cial forecasts and the investment of liquid funds, this department is also
responsible for disbursements and collections of loans. The department is pre-
sently developing an internal reporting system taking into account the Bank's
audit and reporting requirements.



- 14 -
3.16      Administrative Department.  This department, which is headed by a
Zambian, is responsible for the Board secretariat and personnel administra-
tion. Recruitment is handled by Management. DBZ does not have a lawyer
and relies for legal matters on a private law firm. DBZ intends to recruit
a loan administrative officer with a legal background.
Procedures
3.17      Shortly after DBZ's establishment, UNDP provided an expert to
formulate procedures for DBZ such as an operations manual and guidelines for
portfolio supervision. DBZ is adapting the procedures to its specific needs.
They generally form a sound basis for DBZ's operations. DBZ's standard Loan
Agreement with clients is satisfactory. DBZ is presently considering some
changes which were proposed by the Bank.
3.18      Procurement and disbursement.  DBZ normally asks its clients to
obtain quotations from several suppliers and to choose the ultimate supplier
in consultation with DBZ. DBZ bases its disbursements on the general pro-
gress of a predetermined investment program. To meet the Bank's disburse-
ment requirements, DBZ will relate its financing and disbursements to specific
items of expenditure for Bank-financed projects.
3.19      Audit. DBZ has appointed Coopers and Lybrand as its auditors. The
audit report for FY 1975 (ended March 31, 1975) was brief, reflecting DBZ's
young age. DBZ has agreed that future audits will comply with the Bank's il-
lustrative audit form to the extent that the supplementary information is re-
levant for DBZ's operations.
IV. RESOURCES, OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Resources
4.01      As of March 31, 1975, DBZ's resources totalled K10.2 million, consist-
ing of the subscribed share capital (KS.7 million of which K6.9 million was
paid-in), reserves and retained earnings (K100,000), and a loan from the
African Development Bank (K1.4 million at 7% p.a.). Recently, DBZ has also
arranged to borrow a total of K7 million from the Bank of Zambia (K5 million
at 7%), the Government (Kl million at 7%), and the Zambia National Provident
Fund (Kl million at 7.5%). The maturities vary between 8-20 years; however,
no repayment schedule has yet been specified for the Government loan.
Operations
4.02      During its first full year of operations (ending March 31, 1975),
DBZ made a good start and approved 14 loans for a total of K6.6 million; this
compares favorably with the performance of other dfcs during their initial
year of operation. From April to October, 1975, DBZ approved 18 more projects



- 15 -
for a total of K6 million. As of June 30, 1975, DBZ had signed contracts for
22 projects, accounting for K7.8 million, and disbursed K4.1 million. DBZ's
ability to keep the time lag between approvals and commitments as short as it
has is an important achievement. DBZ has not yet made any equity investments
or guarantees.
4.03      DBZ has been aggressive in seeking sound projects during its first
year. DBZ's impact on those projects have been necessarily limited due to
the lateness of its entry. DBZ is eager to increase its role in project for-
mulation and preparation, and it fully expects to do so as its staff acquire
further experience and expertise. To enhance its impact on large national
projects whose financing requirements exceed DBZ's exposure limits (para 3.04),
DBZ is planning to undertake syndication of such projects, as it has already
done in two cases.
4.04      Among the 14 loans approved during FY 1975 (Annex 6), there were
five domestic resource-based projects:  one for vegetable and fruit growing/
storage, one for sugar processing (this project is expected to create 2,300
additional jobs) one for quarrying, and two cattle ranches. Although most
DBZ-financed projects, like the majority of manufacturing interprises in
Zambia, rely on imported inputs, they appear economically well conceived.
Three of the loans involve projects with some export features. DBZ has not
directed its lending to any particular sector and has financed a wide variety
of projects. (Twenty-five percent of all projects financed until June 30,
1975 were for agriculture but they accounted for only 8% of the total amount).
4.05      Eighty percent of the projects approved as of March 31, 1975
(Annex 7) are private; they account for one third of the approved amount.
About half the loans were for new projects; expansions of on-going enter-
prises accounted for 80% of the approved amount. Most of DBZ's assistance
is for projects in Lusaka, the Copperbelt and along the line of rail. Most
loans have been to projects that appear to have very good financial prospects.
The median loan size is K123,000. The loan maturity ranges between 5 and 13
years and averages 8.7 years. The average interest rate is 9%; DBZ intends
to charge an average rate of 10% with a minimum of 9% in the future.
4.06      Most of the approved projects are directed towards the domestic
market. Although DBZ's past appraisals do not include a thorough economic
analysis, the projects appear generally economically sound in view of high
transportation costs on similar imports. The average cost per job created
is $20,000 which is reasonable.
Financial Results and Condition
4.07      Annex 8 shows DBZ's income statements and balance sheets.  As of
March 31, 1975, DBZ's loan portfolio amounted to K 3.6 million; DBZ had
invested K 2.5 million in liquid assets at an average yield of 5.8% p.a.
During FY 1975, administrative expenses amounted to 4% of total assets which



- 16 -
is reasonable for a new institution. Net profits amounted to 1% of share
capital on an annual basis. The low profitability is common for a new
institution and DBZ's financial condition is sound.
V. PROSPECTS
Projected Operations
5.01      DBZ expects that approvals will amount to K10 million in FY 1976
and will increase gradually to K22 million in FY 1980 (Annexes 9 through
13 show DBZ's projections through FY 1980 together with the underlying
assumptions). This forecast level of operations seems reasonable in view of
DBZ's approvals to date and its large pipeline of projects.
5.02      DBZ has a well-filled pipeline of projects.  As of October 1975, the
pipeline consisted of 23 projects for a total amount of K 7.1 million (see
Annex 14). The pipeline included only one parastatal project, a fishery
project which accounted for forty percent of the amount. Of the private
projects, nine accounting for half of the amount are for industry. They cover
a variety of subsectors. Most of them either will use domestic raw materials,
be labor intensive or take advantage of high transport costs to Zambia. DBZ's
pipeline also includes two hotel projects and five bakeries.  In consistence
with the Government's emphasis on increasing food production, one third of
DBZ's private projects under study (accounting for 10% of the amount) are for
agricultural schemes, including farm and cattle ranch development and poultry
farms. AFC provides only short-term financing, and DBZ is the only institution
that can finance these projects.
5.03      In view of the usual low initial returns on equity investments,
DBZ does not intend to make any until FY 1977 and the amount of such in-
vestments is expected to remain relatively low thereafter. This reflects
DBZ's rather conservative attitude. DBZ is aware, however, that if it wants
to be effective in project promotion it should be willing to provide more
equity financing once it is better established.
Resource Position and Needs
5.04      As of March 31, 1975, DBZ's uncommitted resources amounted to
K3.0 million, including K1.4 million of the ADB line of credit. According
to DBZ's projections, its resource requirements will develop as follows
(amounts in K million):



- 17 -
Year ending March 31                  1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
Available for approvals at
beginning of year                   3.0    (5.4)  (16.2)  (29.6)   (45.6)
New share capital                      1.3      -        -        -         -
Internal generation of funds /1       0.3       1.5    2.1       2.8      3.8
Approvals during the year             10.0     12.3   15.5    18.8    22.0
Cumulative resource requirements    5.4        16.2   29.6    45.6       63.8
/1   Cash from operations plus loan collections minus debt repayments.
To cover its operations until the end of FY1978, DBZ needs K30 million in
addition to the increase in paid-in share capital to K10 million. Of this
amount approximaLely 1'. 24 million is needed to finance the import component
of DBZ's operations. DBZ expects to obtain K14 million from local sources,
K 8 million of which will be used for financing imports. It has already
reached agreement with the Bank of Zambia, the Government and the Zambia
National Provident Fund for a total amount of K 7 million during FY1976. DBZ
expects to obtain K 6 million more from foreign sources, such as the African
Development Bank, Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau and the European Investment
Bank. It is proposed that the Bank fill the remaining resource gap with a
loan of K10 million ($15 million). This amount would cover one third of DBZ's
operations and one half of its foreign exchange requirements through FY1978
(ending March 31, 1978).
Projected Income Statements
5.05      Annex 10 shows DBZ's projected income statements assuming that DBZ
will earn a spread of two percent on the average cost of borrowings. The pro-
jected income statements-can be summarized as follows (amounts in K'000):
Year ending March 31       1975       1976       1977     1978      1979    1980
(actual)
Total Revenue              398       836        1,683    2,815    4,068   5,478
Net Profit                  70        168          331      482       636      950
Net profit as % of
average share capital    1%           2%          3%        5%        6%       9%
Net Profit as % of
average net worth          1%         2%           3%       42        5%       8%
The projections indicate that the return on net worth (after adequate
provisions) will increase from 1% in FY1975 to 8% in PY1980. As a statutory



- 18 -
corporation, DBZ is exempted from corporate taxes. The projected level of
profitability is modest but sufficient to maintain an adequate equity base.
Although profit may allow some small dividends, the return on equity will be
modest. (According to the Act, DBZ can pay dividends only after at least
three profitable years). DBZ's administrative expenses as a percentage of
average total assets are expected to decline from 4% in FY1975 to 1% in
FY1980. This requires strict control over administrative expenses but seems
feasible. DBZ's debt service capacity will be adequate with an interest and
principal coverage exceeding 1.6 throughout the period.
Projected Balance Sheets
5.06      Annex 12 shows DBZ's projected balance sheets.  DBZ's total
assets are projected to increase from K7.2 million at the end of FY1975 to
K64 million at the end of FY1980, which represents an average growth rate
of more than 50%. Provisions will amount to 1.7% of the outstanding loan
and equity portfolio in FY1980. DBZ's debt/equity ratio will reach 3:1
during 1979 and 4:1 at the end of FY1980.
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      The manufacturing sector, which has increased substantially since
Zambia's independence, will have an important role to play if the nation is
to move away from its dependence on the mining sector. Government should
formulate policies and design a consistent set of investment incentives to
spur industrial activity. Pending the enactment of the proposed code (see
para. 2.15) there is sufficient investment activity to Justify DBZ's role.
It is important that DBZ use proper economic criteria in selecting projects
and that, ultimately, the Government apply such criteria to all projects
implemented in Zambia. While the parastatals have some access to other
financial institutions, private enterprises essentially can obtain medium
and long-term financing only from DBZ.
6.02      DBZ has a dynamic management which has succeeded in recruiting
suitable staff and established a good track record in terms of its volume
of business and ability to keep its project processing time to a minimum.
DBZ's projects are generally financially and economically sound. In view
of its promising start, it is likely that DBZ's impact on projects will grow
rapidly as it gains the necessary experience. DBZ has been able to build up
a substantial pipeline of interesting projects which are, on the whole,
consistent with Government's objectives for Zambian industry. The industrial
projects in the pipeline cut across a wide variety of manufacturing subsectors.
6.03      To cover its operations until March 1978, DBZ needs K30 million in
new resources, of which K24 million would be for imports. DBZ expects to
obtain K20 million from local and foreign sources. It is recommended that



- 19 -
the Bank lend DBZ $15 million (approximately K10 million) to fill its remaining
resources gap and that IFC invest up to K350,000 (approximately $550,000
equivalent) in DBZ's share capital to increase the subscription of "Class
B" shares.
6.04      The loan would finance the c.i.f. cost of imported goods, the
estimated foreign exchange component of imported goods purchased in Zambia
and civil works. It would be repaid according to a flexible amortization
schedule, conforming to the aggregate amortization schedules of DBZ's
subloans which have a maximum maturity of 15 years. Since DBZ is a new com-
pany, has not yet had time to develop its operations, and will have a low
profitability during its early years, it is recommended that DBZ be given
concessional treatment of commitment charges which would only accrue on amounts
authorized for specific subprojects. DBZ would need the Bank's prior approval
for all projects using $250,000 or more of the proposed loan and would not
be able to use more than $3 million in total without the Bank's approval.
Given the cost of Bank funds, DBZ nlans to on-lend the proceeds of the loan at
an interest rate of 10-1/2%, with the foreign exchange risk borne by the sub-
borrowers.
6.05      Justification.  The proposed loan will serve to alleviate Zambia's
shortage of funds for industrial investments by providing term financing to
medium- and large-scale industrial projects which meet appropriate economic,
financial, and technical criteria. The loan and equity investment will also
provide the opportunity to assist the further development of DBZ as an effec-
tive appraiser and allocater of scarce resources. At present, DBZ is the
only Zambian institution undertaking comprehensive project appraisals. The
industrial sector has a potentially significant role to play in reducing
Zambia's dependence on the mining sector.
6.06      The proposed IFC investment would make IFC the second largest
"Class B" shareholder and, with the support of a number of other "Class B"
shareholders, would allow it to be represented on DBZ's Board of Directors.
DBZ is looking for the technical support of IFC, which through its membership
on DBZ's Board is expected to reinforce the Bank's efforts to strengthen further
DBZ. As no other institution in Zambia is designed to provide medium and long-term
finance to the private sector, a significant portion of DBZ's business will be
with private enterprises. The Government controls the majority of DBZ's share
capital, but is keen to have DBZ operate independently and on a commercial
basis.






ANNEX 1
DEVELOPfEWT BANK OF ZAMBIA
Interest Rates in Zambia
(as of March, J.975)
Interest Rate per Annum (%)
Bank of Zambia, discount rate                                   5.0
Interest rates on fixed-term deposits or.
savings accounts
National Credit and Savings Bank Accounts                   3.75
Coomercial Banks Savings Accounts                          4.0
Commercial Banks Fixed-term Deposits
3-6 months                                            4.0
6-12 months                                           4.5
1-2 years                                             5.0
2-3 years                                             5.5
3 years and over                                      6.0
Zambia National Bailding Society
Savings Shares                                        3.5
Investment Shares                                     6.0
Deposits (3 to 60 months)                             3.0-7.25
Governmient stock (long-term bonds)                         7.25
Iending rates on coumercial banks overdrafts                7.5-10.0
Lending rates on medium- to long-term loans
Comercial banks                                            8.5-10.0
Agricultural Finance Corporation                            8.0
Inchdstrial Finance Corporation                            9.0-10.0
Zambia National Provident Fund
Loans to municipalities                               7.5
Indastrial loans                                      7.5-8.5
Zambia National Eiilding Society
Mortgage loans - Residential properties               7.5
Mortgage loans - Commercial and industrial
properties                         9.0-10.25
Zambia State Insurance Corporation                         8.0-9.0
Development Bank of Zambia                                  9.0-10.5
IBRD/DFCD
May, 1975



ANNEX 2
DEVELOFMENT BANK OF ZAMBIA
List of Shareholders
(as of October 1, 1975)
Amount subscribed
(K'O0O)
"CLASS A" Shareholders
The Government of Zambia                                   4,500
Bank of Zambia                                               500
Zambia National Provident Fand                               500
National Commercial Bank Ltd.                                200
Zambia National Bailding Society                             150
Zambia State Insurance Corporation Ltd.                      150
6,000
"CLASS B" Shareholders
Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft                          i,500
Group of Yugoslav Banks                                      30C;/
Barclays Bank of Zambia Ltd.                                 200
Standard Bank of Zambia Ltd.                                 200
African Development Bank                                     150
Grindlays Bank International (Zambia) Ltd.                   100
Bank of America                                              100
Banca Nazionale del Lavoro                                   100
Den Norske Credit Bank                                        50
2,700
Proposed IFC investment                                           350
Other unsubscribed "CLASS B" Shares                               950
Total authorized and issued share capital                      10,000
j/ Net yet paid in.
IBRD/DFCD
October 28, 1975



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ZAMBIA
OPERATIOMS POLICIES
(Approved by DBZ 'S Board of Directors on August 15, 1975)
I. GENERAL
1. DBZ is a national development institution, and shall contribute
to the development of economically viable enterprises in Zambia in
all the sectors of the economy mentioned in the DBZ Act, mainly:-
a) manufacturing industries;
b) ranching and large scale agriculture;
c) tourism.
2. DBZ shall invest on the basis of national priorities for economic
and social development as laid down in Development Plans. *,thin this
framework, DBZ shall give equal priority to parastatal and private projects.
3. DBZ shall only finance projects which are technically feasible and
financially viable. Wthen these requirements are satisfied, DBZ shall give
priority to projects contributing towards:-
- foreign exchange savings and possible earnings.
- development of local technology and of manpower skills.
- permanent employment.
- use of local raw materials.
- development of related industries.
- Zambian ownership and management.
4. DBZ will not subsidise enterprises or projects.
5. DBZ shall to its best endeavour identify investment opportunities
and present them to potential Zambian and foreign investors.
6.  DBZ shall, where appropriate and possible, offer technical assistance
and advice to its clients in matters of project planning, organisation
and financing.
II. INVESTMENT POLICY
1. DBZ shall grant medium and long term loans wihose terms and conditions
such as repayment periods, interest rates, commitment and other charges will
vary with the requirements of each project. It may also invest in the share
capital of enterprises, underwrite securities and guarantee debts.



ANNEX 3
Pge 2 of 3
2.  DBZ's financial assistance shall notamount to less than K25,000
in any one project.
3. DBZ's total outstanding commitments in favour of one single enter-
prise shall neither exceed 20% of DBZ's net worth nor 75% of the enter-
prise's fixed assets.  Exceptions to this rule must be determined by
the particular nature and merits of a project.
4. DBZ's total investments in the form of equity participation shall
not exceed 25% of the Bank's net worth. In one single enterprise, DBZ's
maximun equity investment shall not exceed 5% of the Bank's net worth
nor, in normal circumstances, 25% of the share capital of the enterprise.
5. DBZ's funds shall not normally be committed specifically for the
financing of working capital.
6. Where appropriate, DBZ may join with other financing institutions,
local or foreign, in financing projects.
7. DBZ shall endeavour to distribute its investments among the various
sectors of the economy mentioned in the DBZ Act, and to the different
provinces of Zambia.
III. RELATIONSHIP WITH CLIENTS
1. DBZ shall not seek to obtain controlling interest in a project or
enterprise. It will also generally avoid assuming management responsi-
bilities in such projects or enterprises.
2. When deciding upon its investment, DBZ shall take into account all
financial requirements of the project or enterprise for the duration of
its investment.
3. In accordance with normal banking practice, DBZ will require its
clients to provide and to maintain adequate security, to keep records
and accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices and to furnish
whatever information on their operations and accounts DBZ deems desirable.
DBZ will have the right to inspect the enterprises and projects if finances.
4. Business secrets and other information furnished by applicants or
clients will be treated as confidential by DBZ.
IV. FINANCIAL POLICY
1. As an independent institution, DBZ shall at all times manage its
funds in such a way that it can honour its obligations. The Bank's
profit margin must at all times be sufficient to cover the operating costs,
to build up provisions and reserves, and to renumerate its share capital.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
The minimum interest rate charged by DBZ shall thus substantially
reflect its cost of capital.
2. To this end DBZ shall:-
- require adequate security for its loans;
- maintain a satisfactory balance between
the maturities of its own obligations and
those of the loans it grants;
- ensure that either the borrowers or the
Government incur the foreign exchange risks
in respect of funds borrowed in foreign
currency by the Bank; and
- make adequate provision against potential
losses and build up reserves to a level
consistent with sound financial practices,
taking into account the size and quality of
its portfolio of loans and investments as
well as the need to pay dividends to share-
holders.
3. Vhenever the Bank considers it necessary to increase capital
resources for operations, DBZ will endeavour to raise funds at best
possible terms locally or abroad.
V. SPECIAL FUNDS
From time to time, Special Funds may be placed under the Bank's
administration, ear-marked for specific purposes or categories of
borrowers. Modifications in the Bank's normal Operational Pblicies
will have to be worked out for each Special Fund.
IBRD/DFCD
October 28, 1975



ANNEX 4
DEVELOPIENT BANK OF ZAMBIA
Board of Directors
(As of October 1, 1975))
Board Member                    Position                  Appointed by
Mr. F. N. Walusiku          Permanent Secretary           Class A shareholders
(Chairman)              Ministry of Planning and
Finance
Mr. C.  N.  Lihusha         Haaaging Director, DBZ         "       "        i
Mr. J.  B. Nyirongo          Managing Director, INDECO
Mr. L.  M.  Lishomwa         Special Assistant to the
President on Economic
affairs                       " 
Mr.  E.  J.  Shamwana        Solicitor                     ""
Mr.  M.  S.  Siame           Chairman of M. S. Company    "        " 
Hr.  F. H. Nkhoma            General Manager, Barclays    Class B shareholders (Standard,
Bank (Zambia) Ltd.             Barclays, and Grindlays Banks)
EBRD/DFCD
October 28, 1975
a



i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    4
ANNEX 5
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ZAMBIA
ORGANIZATION CHART
(AS OF OCTOBER 1, 1975)
Board of Directors
Chairman: Mr. F.M. Walusiku
P.S. Ministry of Planning & Finance
Loan Committee
Chairman: Mr. Lihusha
Managing Director
Mr. C.N. Lihusha
Mr. |uardt (eap.), Maagr  r.W p),Maagr  r  ahMaagM.he                                               omanScrtaChrrman: Mr. Lynth
Mr. B.A. Lenth (exp.)
|Mr. Pasitkari (exp.) |
Promotion & Planning Department                          Opiierations Department                             Finance Department                 -Administrative Departrnent,
Mr. Rudhardt (exp.i. Manager                   Mr. Wadw,ha (exp.), Manager                                Mr. Rahnman (exp.), Manager                       Mr, Chemnbe, ComPany Secretary
1 Senior Economist                             4  Senior Project Officers (2 exp., 1 vacant)              1  Accountant                                     1  Assistant Secretary
3  Economists (i vacant)                       4  Proiect Officers 11 vacant)                             2  Assistant Accountants                          1  Personnel Officer
2  Assistant Economists (1 vacant)             2  Assistant Proiect Officers                                                                                1  Executive Officer
1 Senior Loan Officer (vacant)
2  Loan Administrative Officers (1 vacant)
3  Assistant Loan Administration Officers
1 Engineering Consultant (exp.)
2  Engineers (vacant)
Employment
Professional staff                30
Of which: Zambians          22
Expatriates        a
Vacant Professional Positions      8
Total                             38
Note: lexp.) = expatriate.
IBRD/DFCD
October 28, 1975                                                                                                                                                              World Bank.- 15325



DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ZAMBIA
Loans Approved as of March 31. 1975
(Amounts in K I 000)
Ownership         Type of   Amount       Maturity   Interest   Total             Othr Sources of Finance
Borrower                  Economic Activity        Location      h private   X Zambian   Project   Approved    (year)           rate      Project Cost   Equity                Loans
1.  Walkover Estates    Agricultural estate    Lusaka               100          50          new         90         10           9            180           90
2.  Universal Footwear  Shoe manufacturing         Lusaka           100          51       expansion    50            5           9             60           10
3.  Vimal Textiles        Towel manufacturing    Lusaka             100          51          new        170         10           9            230           60                   -
4.  Indeco Indutrial
Holdings           Bag manufacturing        Kabwe             -          100        rehabili-  1300           8           8.5        7,600          1050                   5250
tation                                                                        (suppliers credit)
5.  Reform bakery        Bakery                    Kafue'           100         100          new         27          5           9             54           27                   -
6.  Nova Knit             Polyester fabrics        Ndola            100          49          new        440          5           9            740          300                   -
7.  African Properties  Cattle, farm              Kabwe             100          95        expansion   123          13           9            266          143                   -
8.  Dunelm Estates        Cattle & Poultry farm  Chipate            100          51        expansion    86          12           9            117           31                   -
9.  Medwich Clothing    Garmet manufacturing   Kitwe                100          84        expansion   262           7          10            462          200                   -
10.  LECO                  PVC blendings            Mwancha          100          -           new         75          5          10            200          125                   -
11.  ZNWMC                 Storage & distribu-    Kabwe              -           100        expansion  1400          12           9           5100         2100                   1600
tion                                                                                                                                       (Building society)
12.  Century Packages    Packaging materials    Lusaka               100          68          new        500          8          10           1670          670                    500 (IFC)
Ltd. *
13.  Zambia Sugar Co.    Sugar production           Lusaka            30          75        expansion  2000           8           9          30000        11000                 17000
(various sources)
14.  Southern Quarries   Quarrying                  Livingston       100         100        expansion   105           5          10            134            29                _
Total                                                                           6628                                 46813        15835                  24350
* Joint Operations with IFC
IBRD/DFCD
November 1975



ANNEXI
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ZAMBIA
Analysis of Loans Approved as of March 31, 1975
(Amounts in K'OOO)
No    %    Amount    %
A.  Type of Project
New                                     6    43   1,302       20
Expansion                               8    57   5 326       80
17   100o  xL.       100
B. Ownership (Private /Public)
Privrate                               11    7Q   1,928       29
Public                                  3    2-   4,700       71
C. Ownership (Zambian/Foreign)
Zambian                                12    86   6,113       92
Foreign                                 2    1       515       8
%    100  ~6,628   -im
D.  Location
Lusaka                                  5,   37   2,810       42
Kabwe                                   3    21   2,823       43
Copperbelt                              3    21      777      12
Other                                   3     21     218       3
4i 10-0  =,          T-
E.  Economic Act'vity
Manufacturing                          10    72   4,929       74
.;griculture                            3    21      299       5
,torage and Distribution                       7              21
i1 o-o  -6Zw      loo0
F. Size
Up to K150,OOO                          7    50      556       8
K150,001 - K500,OOO                     4    29   1,372       21
K500,001 and over                       3    21    .700       71
17   TC)   628      100
Average size: K470,000
Median size: K123,000
G. Maturity
years                                 5    36      697      11
6 - 10 years                            6    43   4,322       65
More than 10 years                       3    21   1.609      24
7l   1o0o            100
Weighted average maturity: 8.7 years
Median maturity: 8 years
H. Interest Rate
;) -55%                                 1      7   1,300      20
".o%                                    9    64   4,386       66
10.0%                                    4    29      942      14
T007U8   100
Average interest rate: 9.0%
IBRD/DFCD
April 1975



ANNEX 8
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ZAMBIA
Balance Sheets
(Amounts in KO00)
As of Yarch 31,                                     1974              1975
ASSETS:
Short term investments                            6,395            2,500
Other current assets                                 93               397
Total current assets                              6,488            2,897
Loans                                              _               3,623
Fixed assets (net)                                   298              633
Total assets                                      6,786             7,153
LIABILITIES-
Cuirrent liabilities                                 90                63
Mortgages                                           -                  74
Total liabilities                                     90              137
Paid-in share capital                             6,650            6,900
Reserves                                              46              116
Equity                                            6,696             7,016
Total liabilities and equity                      6 786             7,153
Income Statements
(Amounts in KIMl)
Year ending March 31,                                1974             1975
9 months
REVENUE:
Interest on short term investments                   200              307
Income from loans                                                      80
Other income                                           2               11
202             398
EXPENSES:
Administrative expenses                              142              309
Financial expenses                                    14               19
156              328
NET PROFIT:                                             46               70
IBRD/bFCD
October 13, 1975



AME 9
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ZAMBIA
Assmaptions for Operational aad Financial Forecasts 1976-1980
Approvals
See Annex 10
Disbursements
Loans: Disbursements take place over a one-year period, starting 3 months after approval.
Equity investments: Disbursement occurs during year of approval.
Loan collections
Average repayment period is 10 years, including 2 years of grace.
Share capital
Paid-in share capital will be increased to K 10 million during FT1976.
Borrowings
All loans approved during FY1975 will be financed from equity.  Thereafter, DBZ will cover
75% of the import component of its loans from foreign lines of credit, Repayment of these
lines of credit matches collections of corresponding subloans.
Other resources requirements will be covered by local borrowings which will not be repaid
before FYl98t .
Provisions
Increased each year by 1 1/2% of the disbursements during the year.
Interest rates and charges
Yield on short-term  investments:         5%
Interest ratp on loans                  10X
Interest rate on borrowings              8%
Commitment charges on loans and on
borrowings have been ignored
Yield on equity investments
1 % - starting the second year after approval.
Taxes
DBZ is tax exempt.
Administrative 3Xpenses
As provided by DBZ. Rent is expected to remain constant throughout the period.  Salaries
during FY1976 as budgeted and increased by K 21,000, K 14,000 and K 15,000 during next three
years to allow for new recruitment. From FY1977 salaries have been increased by 10% per
year to account for merit increases and inflation. All other expenses have been increased
by 105 per year.
Dividends    No dividends have been assumed during the projec.ion period.
IBRD/CFCD/April 1975



ANNEX 10
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ZAMBIA
Forecast of Operations (1976 - 1980)
(Amounts in KIOOO)
Year ending March 31          1975      1976    1977      1975     1979     19L0
(actual)        -         -
APPROVALS
Loans, domestic component     6,9&V     3,333    4,oo    5,000    6,000     7,000
Loans, import component         -       6,667    8,000   1 0,000   12,000    14,000
Loans                         6;-60    10,000   12,000   15,000   18,000    21,000
Equity investments              -         -        250      500      750     1,000
Total                         6-600    10,000   12,250   15,500   18,750    22,000
DISBURSEMENIS
Loans, domestic component     3,800    4j,oSo    3,583    4,375    5,375     6,375
Loans, import component         -       2,500    7,167    8,750   10,750    12,750
Loans                         3,800    6,550   10,750   13,125   16,125    19,125
EqUity investments             -          -       250       500      750    1,000
Total                        3,boo    6,550  11,000   13,625   16,875    20,125
j,/ It has been assumed that all loans approved before March 31, 1975 will be
financed from domestic resources
IBRD/DFCD
October 28, 1975



ANNE 11
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ZAMBIA
Projected Incomae Statements (1976-1980)
(Amounts in KrOOO)
Year ending March 31st              1975     1976      1977     1978     1979      1980
(a=Eal)     ---
REVENUE:
Interest on short term
investments                       318      128      120       137      134       129
Interest on loans                    80      708    1,563    2,678    3,909    5,299
Dividend income                     -        -         -        -          25       50
Total revenue                       398      836    1,683    2,815    4,068    5,478
EXPENSES:
Administrative expenses             309      429       490      552      622       682
Financial expenses                   19      141      697    1,577    2,568    3,559
Provisions                          -         98      165       204      242       287
Total expenses                      328      668    1,352    2,333    3,432    4,528
NET PROFIT                             70      168       331      482      636       950
Net profit as percentage
of average share capital              1%       2%        3%       5%       6%        9%
Net profit as percentage
of average net worth                  1%       2%        3%       4%       5%        8%
Administrative expenses as
percentage of average total assets   4.3%      4.1%      2.5%     1.8%     1.4%      1.2%
IBRD/DFCD
October 28, 1975



ANNEX 12
DEVELOPMENT RANK OF ZAMBIA
Projected Balance Sheets 81976-1980)
(Amounts in K'0  )
is of March 31                    1975     1976      1977     1978      1979     1980
(a7clua) -    --                         -        -
ASSETS
Ourrent assets                  2720     2376      2913     2618      2801     2552
Loans outstanding               3800 / 10350    20125    31027    43429    57856
Equity investments                         -        250      750      1500     2500
Portfolio outstanding (gross)  380C    10350    20375    31777    44929    60356
Provisions                        -        (98)    (263)    (467)    (709)    (996)
Pbrtfolio cutstanding (net)    3800    10252    20112    31310    44220    59360
Fixed assets                     633      1287     1614      2146     2392      2392
Total assets                    7153    13915    24639    36074    49j13    64304
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Ourrent liabilities               63       107      125      140       155       170
Domestic borrowings               74      1649     6649    11649    17649    23649
Foreign borrowings                -       1875     7250    13188    19876    27802
Total long-term debt              74      3524    13899    24837    37525    51451
Paid-in share capital           6900    10000    10000    10000    10000    10000
Reserves and retained earnings  116        284      615      1097     1733      2683
Eqcuity                         7016    10284    10615    11097    11733    12683
Total liabilities and equities 7153    13915    24639    36074    49413    64304
Undisbursed approvals           2800      6250     7500     9375    11250    13125
Debt/equity ratio               0.01      0.34     1.31      2.24     3.20      4.00
1/ Includes receivable portion of outstanding portfolio.
IBRD/bFCD
October 28, 1975



ANNEX 13
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ZANBIA
Projected Cash Flow Statements (1976-1980)
(Amounts in K'OOO)
Year ending March 31             1975     1976     1977      1978     1979     1980
(actua)     ---
SOURCES:
Net profit                       70      168      331      482       636      950
Provisions                                98      165      204       242      287
Cash from operations             70      266      496      686       878     1237
Loan collections                 -        -       975     2223      3723     4698
Local borrowings                 74    1575      5000     5000      6000     6000
Tbreign borrowings               -      1875     5375     6770      8520    10108
Increase in share capital      6900     3100      _        _        _
Total sources                  7044     6816    11846    14679    19121    22043
USES:
Increase in fixed assets (net)  633      654      327       532      246      -
Disbursements of loans
- domestic component         3800     4050     3583     4375      5375     6375
- import component             -      2500     7167     8750    10750    12750
Equity investments               -       -        250       500      750     1000
Repayment of foreign loans       -                          832     1832     2182
Total uses                     4433     7204    11327    14989    18953    22307
Increase (decrease) in net
current assets               2611    (388)      519      (310)    168      (264)
Debt service coverage                    2.9       3.1       1.9     1.6      1.7
IBRD/DFCD
October 28, 1975



ANNEX 14
DEVELOBMENT BANK OF ZAMBIA
Pipeline of Projects as of October 6, 1975
(Amounts in KOOO)
Project                       Type of Project           Majority Ownership             Total Project       Estimated
Cost           DBZ loan
Electrical accessories             new                  private Zambian                    600                 300
Manufacturing of concreeblocks    new                   private Zambian                     88                  60
Furniture manufacturing            new                  private Zambian                     45                  31
Refrigerator assembly              new                  private Zambian                    762                 200
Watch assembly                     new                  private Zambian                    200                 100
Container manufacturing            new                  private Zambian                  2,300              1,000
Printing                           expansion            private Zambian                    400                 400
Sand and stone quarry              expansion            private Zambian                    102                  70
BDat yard                          expansion            private Zambian                    185                 102
Hotel                              expansion            private Zambian                    825                 750
Ibtel                              new                  private Zambian                    250                 200
Bakery                             acquisition          private Zambian                    200                 150
Bakery                             new                  private Zambian                     35                  30
Bakery                             new                  private Zambian                    213                 125
Bakery                             new                  private Zambian                     75                  50
Bakery                             expansion            private Zambian                     30                  30
Cattle ranching                    expansion            private Zambian                    201                 136
Pbultry farm                       acquisition/         private Zambian                     50                  30
expansion
Pbultry scheme                     new                  priva.te Zambian                   300                 210
Dairy and fruits                   new                  private Zambian                     52                  37
Cattle ranching                    acquisition/         private Zambian                     44                  33
expansion
Farm                                acquisition/        private Zambian                     75                  55
expansion
Fishery                            new                  parastatal                       5,500               3,000
Total                                                                                                  7,C99
IBRD/DFCD
October 17, 1975



ANNEX 15
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ZAMBIA
Zambian Laws Applicable to the Proposed IFC Investment
in the Development Bank of Zambia
The basic legislation under which the Development Bank of Zambia
(DBZ) operates is the Development Bank of Zambia Act, 1972, which incor-
porated DBZ, the Development Bank of Zambia (Amendment) Act, 1975 and the
Development Bank of Zambia (Amendment) (Nko. 2) Act, 1975. These Acts set
out the powers and functions of DBZ.
Approval and Registration
Under the Development Bank of Zambia Act, approval by the Minister
of Finance is required for the issue of shares to IFC in DBZ. Similar
approval is required for any transfer of shares. Also, under the general
law, a local enterprise must make application to the Bank of Zambia for
approval of the issue of shares in a Zambian company to non-residents and
for any subsequent transfer of such shares. As a condition of approval, it
is required that disbursements be made through the Bank of Zambia.
Repatriation
External payments are governed by the Exchange Control Act, Chapter
593 of the Laws of the Republic of Zambia, and the regulations issued there-
under by the Ministry of Finance. Ministry of Finance approval is required
to repatriate dividends as well as the proceeds of equity sales and to trans-
fer shares in a Zambian company to non-residents.
Taxation
The income of DBZ is exempt from income tax in Zambia under paragraph
5 (1) (i) of the Second Sched.le to the Income Tax Act of Zambia.
IFC
January, 1976



ANNEX 16
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ZAMBIA
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Loan
Amount
($'000)
FY1976
Fourth quarter                                        250
FY1977
First quarter                                          700
Second quarter                                      1,150
Third quarter                                       1,600
Fourth quarter                                      1,750
FY1978; 
First quarter                                       1,750
Second quarter                                      1,750
Third quarter                                       1,750
Fourth quarter                                      1,750
FY1979
First quarter                                       1,300
Second quarter                                        850
Third quarter                                         400
15,000
2/ Year ending June 30
IBRD/DFCD
July 1975



