CIRCULATtNG COPY
'I BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
Document of
FILiL; COPYx -                    The World Bank
International Finance Corporation
FOR OFFICiAL USE ONLY
ORCULATIN6 CoPY                      Report No. P-1688a-ZA
reA RBE    RN      TO RErP0RTS DESY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OF THE BANK AND TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE CORPORATION
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN BY THE BANK
TO THE
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ZAMBIA
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
AND AN INVESTMENT BY THE CORPORATION
IN THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ZAMBIA
January 29, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank/IFC authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Zambian Kwacha Kl = US$1.56
US$1 = KO.641
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB          African Development Bank
AFC          Agricultural Finance Corporation
DEG          Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft
EIB          European Investment Bank
INDECO       Industrial Development Corporation
KfW          Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NCB          National Commercial Bank
SNDP         Second National Development Plan
FINDECO      State Finance and Development Corporation
ZAMDEV       Zambia Development Loans Scheme
ZIMCO        Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December 31
DBZ:         April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USFE 0NLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDAT::ON OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
OF THE BANK AND TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
CORPORATION ON A PROPOSED LOAN BY THE BANK TO
THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ZAMBIA WI H THE
GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
AND AN INVESTMENT BY THE CORPORATION IN THIS
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY
1.        I submit the following report: and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Development Bank of Zambia (DBZ7 with the guarantee of the Republic of
Zambia for the equivalent of US$15 million to help finance the import com--
ponent of investments made by DBZ, and an IFC investment of K350,00o (approxi-
mately $550,000 equivalent) in the share capital of DBZ. The interest on the
loan would be 8.5 percent per annum. Amortization wouldl conform substantially
to the aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable to the sub-loans
financed out of the proceeds of the loan.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on :ambia (Report No. 4a-ZA) was issued
on December 26, 1972. An updating mission visited Zambia in October!
November 1973.  A basic economic mission visited the country in June/July
1975. Its report is scheduled to be issued in July of this year. The
most recent economic data are summarized in Annex I.
3.        With its large mineral reserves and wide area of land suitable for
crops and livestock, Zambia has the potential for rapid and sustained develop-
nment, but over the past decade real gross domestic product has grown at less
than 4 percent per annum. The economy is characterized by a pronounced dualism
between a large modern sector dominated by copper mining and a rural subsis-
tence sector. The average per capita GNP of US$430 (1973) disguises a large
differential in incomes between the urban and rural sectors which has led to
rapid migration to towns. Today, more than a third of the country's population
lives in urban areas and there is substantial urban unemployment.
4.        The broad economic and social goals of Zambia's last two national
development plans may be summarized as follows: (a) raising the general level
of welfare; (b) diversifying the econonmy to make it less dependent on copper;
Cc) raising the level of education and developing a wide range of technical
and managerial skills; and (d) narrowing the gap between urban and rural
incomes.
5.        The modern sector of the economy continues to be dominated by
copper mining which contributes about 60 percent of GDP and over 90 percent
of the value of exports, shares which have not changed significantly during
the past decade. Fluctuations in world copper prices thus have a large
T|his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
olf their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



impact on the balance of pavments as we]. as on the whole economy.    Sinc 
1969, when it obtained a majoritv interest in the ttwo major mining compaieos.
the Government has attempted to promote the growth of copper production,
chiefly through tax incentives. The Second National Development Plan 1972-76
(SNDP) projected that copper production would rise from 700,000 to 900,000 tons
over the five year period. To date production has not increased due to (a) the
failure of a major mine, flooded in 1Q70, to regain its former level of pro-
duction; (b) the 1973 border closure with Rhodesia which caused a major re-
routing of imports and hence delays in obtaining equipment and parts; and (c)
the reluctance of the private mining companies to invest prior to the Govern-
ment takeover, making substantial investment necessary merely I:o maintain
production. However, the investment required to reach the projected target
is now substantially in place and (assuming a 90 percent capacity utilization
rate) copper output is expected to grow at about 3 percent per annum on average
up to 1980.
6.        The development of the manufacturing sector has contributed to the
Government's goal of diversification. Since 1965, manufacturing output has
expanded at a rate of 12 percent per annum and its share in GDP (13.2 percent
in 1974) now exceeds that of agriculture (10.5 aercent). In 1966, on the
grounds that Zambianization was too slow and investment insufficient, the
Government directed the Industrial Development Corporation (lNDECO) to parti-
cipate on its behalf in the industrial sector. Today, INDECO holds a majority
interest in virtually all major manufacturing industries. In the meantime,
the private sector has developed medium scale enterp-ises, ind in 1972,
accounted for one half both of value added and of employment in manufacturing.
The expansion of output in manufacturing has consisted mainly of import sub-
stitution for consumer goods behind the protection of tcariffs and quota
restrictions. Since the manufacturing sector is small and production tech-
niques are relatively capital-intensive, even the rapid growth in output
recorded has not provided sufficient employment opportunities for the growing
urban labor force.
7.        Zambia has made a major effort to develop its educational system.
In 1964, there were only about 100 citizens with aniversity degrees and 1,000
with secondary school level certificates. Since then remarkable progress has
been achieved in expanding education at all levels. The primary school en-
rollment ratio was raised from 42 percent in 1960 to 85 percent in 1970.
There are now over 800 Zambian university graduates and the annual output
from secondary schools has risen to over 6,000. Despite the recent emphasis
on vocational and technical training, skilled manpower remains an important
constraint to development.
8.        The objective of reducing the urban-rural income gap, however, has
proven far less manageable. Despite the Government objectives to becone
self-sufficient in foodstuffs and agricultural raw materials, increase economic
diversification and expand the export base, and raise rural incomes, the
performance of the agricultural sector has been d'sappointing. Output has
grown at an average rate of only 1.7 percent per annum over the past ten



years. Imports of food and agricultural raw materials have been growing.
In 1974, approximately 40 percent by value of Zambia's marketed food was
imported; the major imported items (e.g. beef and dairy products, wheat,
edible oils and cotton) were all products in which the country possesses a
significant agricultural potential. In addition, the rapid rise in modern
sector wages, especially during the five years following independence,
widened the gap between the urban and rural sectors. The prices of agricul-
tural goods, most of which are set by government marketing boards, were not
allowed to rise as rapidly as the prices of manufactured goods. Recently, the
Government has raised the prices of some agricultural commodities, but further
increases are necessary to raise farm incomes and give farmers a greater
incentive to increase production.
9.        The Government has not as yet devised an agricultural development
strategy which would stimulate production and increase the welfare of the
rural poor by raising their productivity. A recent Bank Agricultural and
Rural Sector Mission explored the possibility for formulating a long-run
development strategy. The major elements that have been identified in this
strategy are: (a) an increased allocation of Government infrastructure invest-
ment and provision of supporting services to rural growth centers chosen on
the basis of high land potential, access to transportation, and population
density; (b) greater allocation of skilled manpower to the planning and execu-
tion of rural development projects and a regional decentralization of these
functions; (c) improved efficiency of government marketing organization; and
(d) changes in the level and structure of agricultural producer prices to bring
them more in line with the opportunities that Zambia faces in world trade and
with regional comparative advantage. The Sector Mission's Report has stimulated
wide discussions about agricultural policy at all levels of Government. The
Government is considering a new agricultural development strategy and major
policy changes.
10.       Since 1970, Zambia's economic fortunes have been in sharp contrast
with those of the previous period. Through 1969, increases in copper prices
put Zambia in a strong financial position. The Government's budget and the
balance of payments produced growing surpluses. National savings were more
than adequate to finance capital formation while foreign reserves were
accumulated. At the same time, the Government's current expenditures were
allowed to grow rapidly to cover rising wages and public employment, sub-
sidies of agricultural inputs and commodities (notably maize and milk), and
defense expenditures without endangering the Government's development program.
The stagnation of agricultural production did not create a financial problem
because foreign exchange earnings were sufficient to pay for food imports.
The two principal factors involved in the change in the economic climate
since 1970 have been: (a) world inflation combined at times with a low copper
price resulting in a deterioration in Zambia's terms of trade from the levels
of the late sixties, and (b) the Mufulira mine disaster in September 1970 and
the closure of the Rhodesian border in 1973 which brought about production
losses and a further drain of financial resources.



1l..     .Government ;z.id?tar, mev,suzel. to mitigate tL- adverse developments
of t:he pXSt: few years have ^ueen largpiy unsuccessful. because of its failure
to curb the gv:wth in 1i racurrent budget.   It has attempted to diversify its
tax base away from, minet.al revenues by restructuring tha personal income tax,
introducing eew salts ard excLse taxes, and raising most tax rates.   However,
increases I.-l r  ir'rén  sxpet.iitures have been rapid; as a consequence, govern-
menr., savings have been generaliv lower than in the late nineteen sixties
and the Gcrverrdt_ént'v develtment prugram has 3uffered.  In real terms, govern-
rtient capital expenditures during the first thvee years of the Second National
Develops-eni: Plan (1972-1976) averaged only 71 percent cf tthe annual amounts
envisaged In the Plan. In view of Zambia's currernt tight financial situation,
it is clear th.t capital expendit-ures during the f-inal two years of the plan
will' not allow overeil targets to be reached. On the balance of payments side,
the Government has imposed imnport restrictions and increased customs duties
and taxes, wAile attem.pting to limit capital flight by controlling remittances.
Nonetheless, Zambia's international reserves declined to $172 million at the
end of 1974 as compared to $514 million. at the end of 1970.
12.       Zambia has been hard1 hit by the current world economic crisis.
Copper prices fell from a.: average of $0.93/lb. during 1974 to $0.56/lb.
during 1975; difficulties in shipping copper through Lobito because of the
Angolan war have led to fu-ther financial. dif.ficulties both on the budgetary
and balance of payments side.  While government revenues fell by over US$300
million, Government current expenditures were rising by 37 percent over their
1974 level as the result mainly of rising subsidies and a large government
wage increase. Tte Government:'s massi-ve budgetary deficit of over US$600 mil-
lion. too large to be finar.ced by external and dornestic non-monetary sources,
led. to an increase in the suppiy of money and quasi-money of 40 percent.
During 1975, the goverament Intends to cut its current expenditures by 10 per-
cent and its ca-p:tal expenditures by about Gne-third by limiting outZays to
on-going projects and starting new projects only when. substantial foreign
financing is involved. By zutting the amount of the budget deficit financed
by bank credit by more than 75 per,-ent, thie growth in. the money supply will
be substantially curtailed- xHeasured agalost the strong worldwide inflation
in recent years, increases in domestic consuver Drices in Zambia had been
relatively mild (O..C perceu.n in 1973 andi 8.4 percent in 1974), bat the rate
cf price increase for ;97.5 is l-kely to have beeni close to 15 percent.
13..      The current account in the balance of payments swurig from a surplus
in 1974 to a deficit estimeted ar about UTS$500 million in 1975.  The Govern-
ment succeeded ln keeping merchandise imports to their 1974 level: it also
delayed priv!ete zransfers on which. arrears were estimated at US$90 million
at the end of September r975.   In November, the TMF agreed to purchases by
tne Government of Zambia under the first credit tranche, oil and compensatory
fi.narncing facill.t:.es totalling SDI. 56.9 million.. It is estimated that Zambia
had ta rely on net caipi.al inflows of about US$325 million.  As regards 1976,
tha Govermnent has expressed its intention to hold merchandise imports to
their 1974/75 levels by maintaining import restrictions, in. addition to our-
sui.lg thie res'LXittive budgetary and monetary policies mentioned in the



-5-
preceding paragraph. The balance of payments outcome in 1976 will also de-
pend to a considerable extent on the pace of the expected recovery of the
industrialized countries and the subsequent improvement in copper prices.
On the basis of alternative projections available at present, Zambia's current
account deficit in 1976 could range between US$150 million and US$350 million.
In any event, this would represent an improvement as compared to 1975. It is
difficult, however, on account of the needed improvement in the foreign ex-
change reserves and arrears position, to expect a dramatic decline in net
capital requirements.
14.       Over the past two years, the Government has successfully mobilized
foreign assistance for its public sector investment program. At the same
time, it has stepped up its borrowing from commercial sources. Over the next
ten years, copper production is projected to increase at about 3 percent per
annum, while copper prices would rise faster than the international price
index. If the growth of imports is kept in line with the likely increase in
GDP, Zambia will be in a position to reduce gradually its dependence on net
capital inflows. Because of its limited borrowing in the past, Zambia's debt
service obligations are relatively low (less than 6 percent of exports of
goods and non-factor services in 1974). Assuming that two thirds of future
borrowing would be on commercial terms (10 percent interest per annum payable
over ten years) and the remainder on IBRD terms, by 1985 Zambia's debt service
obligations would remain below 15 percent of export earnings.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
15.       To date Zambia has received eighteen Bank loans amounting to about
$432 million (net of cancellations). Four of the loans were made for railways
and electric power before Zambia became independent and are guaranteed by the
United Kingdom. Since independence, four loans have been made for agricultural
development, three for education, two for highways, two for power, and one each
for program assistance, urban development, and telecommunications. Power accounts
for about 56 percent of the total lending. Eight loans are fully disbursed,
one has been cancelled and the disbursed portion was prepaid (No. 627-ZA).
In 1974 the Bank's share in Zambia's total public debt (disbursed and undis-
bursed) was 32 percent, while the Bank's share in Zambia's total debt service
payments was 20 percent. Present projections indicate that these percentages
would be about the same in the 1980s.
16.       IFC made its first investment in Zambia in February 1972, providing
$1.1 million for expansion of Zambia Bata Shoe Company Ltd, and a second IFC
investment in the same company, totaling $1.2 million, was made in June 1973.
A third investment was made in May 1975 providing $1.04 million to Century
Packages Ltd. for a packaging materials factory. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of November 30, 1975 and
December 31, 1975 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.



'trg:-c ens o en B3nk supported prro,;ects in Zambia rhas been adversely
wy the dif.f,icu:ties Zambia nas faced over the past decade. The
Unailateral Declarat--tn. of -ndaeoendence in Southern Rhodesia in 1965 led
Zambia to sever its cj,ose economic ties with Southern Rhodesia at a con-
n.Ideralile Zaos' of dis-ripting the on-gcing development program, Shortage of
S;kil.'edl T.aOwer hS izzrfere. fwith progress on some prejects, while cost
e.scal4tions ca.used diffEcuities on others, esoecially the Kariba North
r roj c .  he 2 amhias-kho(iesia bordier _losure in Jarnuary '973 created
..n qddeiionnal. financial burd&en. but has not caused significant delays to
Bank-fiinance' pro,ects. Lo heLp maintain Zambia's development effort in
"he face of these financxal problem3, the Bank made a US$30 million program
_oan in .Jur,e 1973.  iowever, ow7ing to unexpected increases in copper prices
diirrig the second half or 1973 and the first quarter of 1974, the then
undis',.rsad portion of the loan (US$17.5 million) was cancelled in March
194,
We propose to convlinue assisting Zambia in achie-ing tts develop-
ment oL4ectives as dis.ussed lin paragrapti 4. To ensuxre tnat our lending
progran is £ocussed ont the priorities for development, we have undertaken
saverali sector studies., and are planning further missions.  Recent missions
ha-re stuctie' u-barnization, rural-urbarn migration, and water supplies and
sewrerage.  !- additio-.u, an Agricultural and Rural Sector Survey mission
visited Zambia, in Seatemnher andI November 1974 (see para. 9). A basic economic
mission visited Zambsa in June 1975 and studied in particular the industrial
and mining sectors and manpower planning in its widesr aspects.   Through
discussion of these reports we expect to assist the Government in preparing
the Third National. Development 'Plan (1977-81).
19.       in the rural sector, our efforts to work with the Government in
preparing suitable projects have not yet been successful mainly because of
the lnadequacy of implementing capacity and lack of appropriate policies.
The Government with Bank assistance is now reassessing its rural development
strategy so that we hope soon to be able to identify projects for Bank
financing which are directed primarily towards improving the productivity of
small farmners.  A second forestcry project, now being prepared, will help
.finance the Gove-zAiment's aff.resZation program as well as an expansion of
Zambia's wo'o processin.g industries.  At the same time we expect to continue
our ir-volveme.. in Zam.bia  ;ower sector by participating in the financing of
the thi:.d s'&age of the Kafue Kiver hydroelectric scheme. We also plan to
con,4-nue ass-i.-lng the Government in meeting the pressing needs of the urban
pnr.r zhrough a tncnid squa:te-c iip-grading and site and. servilces rro-ect in
C:t4 vs c:-hor than :.usaka.
20.       Furthec- Bank involvement is also planned in the education sector.
Prev:tojs EaLK loanis have prov:ided Zambia with substantial assistance in
achi-.ing large increases in the number of Zambian graduates.   The recent
basic economic mission identified a possible fourth education project which
Is now being appraised. Upon completion of the education sector plan which



-7-
the Government is preparing, we expect to review with the Government the
scope for further Bank assistance in this sector. Projects are also being
prepared in transport, possibly emphasizing road maintenance and staff
training as well as construction, and water supply sectors. The latter is
expected to focus on the development of water supply systems in provincial
towns.
PART III - INDUSTRIAL, AGRICULTURAL AND FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENT
The Industrial Sector
21.       Because of Zambia's reliance upon long and often precarious trans-
portation links with the outside world the Government's major objective for
the manufacturing sector is import substitution, especially for food products
and some other consumer goods. The Government also emphasizes: (i) greater
capacity utilization; (ii) further processing of agricultural and mineral raw
materials; (iii) creation of additional employment, (iv) establishment of
rural small scale enterprises; and (v) promotion of industrial exports. An
Industrial Establishment Licensing Act and an Investment Code are being pre-
pared in line with the above objectives.
22.       At Independence (1964), most industries of the former Federation
of Rhodesia and Nyasaland were located in what is now Rhodesia. Since then,
however, Zambia has endeavored to develop its own manufacturing sector, and
its importance in the economy has progressively increased. Until 1965,
government policy was limited to promotion of and incentives to the private
sector. Only a few processing industries were run by Government through
parastatal bodies. In 1966 the Government announced its intention to accel-
erate industrial development through State intervention and directed the
Industrial Development Corporation (INDECO), an industrial parastatal holding
company, to participate on its behalf in the industrial sector. INDECO's
activitie3 have since greatly expanded. In 1974, they comprised 60 subsi-
diaries and associated firms, and accounted for one half of both the value
added and employment in the industrial sector. The Government now wants
INDECO to consolidate its present operations and improve overall efficiency
rather than expand. Private initiative and capital continue to play an im-
portant role, particularly in medium and small scale enterprises. They benefit
from the natural protection afforded by Zambia's geographical location and a
protected market. In 1974 they accounted for the other half of both value
added and of employment in the industrial sector.
23.       Industrial production expanded at an annual average rate of 20 per-
cent per year between 1963 and 1967. After this rapid expansion it has grown
by about 10 percent a year. In 1974, value added in manufacturing accounted
for 13.2 percent of GDP. Most of the industrial growth during the first four
years of the Second National Development Plan (SNDP) took place in consumer
goods industries which cater to the needs of the domestic market.



- 8 -
24.       The manufacturing sector presently provides employment for about
45,000 people out of a total labor force of 1.5 million. One of the Govern-
ment's objectives is to increase the employment capacity of the sector. The
Government expects the manufacturing sector to provide one quarter of the
target of 20,000 additional jobs per annum. Although such a target may be
optimistic, it gives an idea of the task Zambia reserves for industrial devel-
opment. In fact the Government is concerned about Zambia's dependence on
copper and is very anxious to diversify and broaden the economic base as soon
as possible. While agriculture holds much long-term potential, for the imme-
diate future manufacturing seems to be the most promising alternative to mining.
The Agricultural Sector
25.       The main characteristic of the sector is its dualism.    On one ex-
treme are about 600,000 smalliholder subsistence farmers, using hand tools and
traditional tecinology. These farmers produce primarily for their own sub-
sistence requirements with a little marketable surplus from which they derive
very meagre incomes. Average family sales are estimated at only about $85 a
year (major crops are cotton, maize, groundnuts, and free-grazed beef).
26.       On the other extreme are large state farms and an economically
important group of about 600 commercial farmers. The commercial farmers are
located on state land, under lease hold, an area which occupies about 3 per-
cent of Zambia. Their farms are large and the land is good. Their farms are
close to the line-of-rail and have good access to markets. They use modern
methods to produce cereals, dairy produce, beef, poultry and eggs for the
urban market and tobacco for export.   The group comprises experienced expa-
triate and Zamnbian commercial farmers and a growing, innovative but relatively
new group of Zambian farmers known as "emergent farmers",
27.       Commercial farming (public and private, Zambian and non-Zambian)
accolnts for 60 percent of the total marketed domestic produce, including 60
percenit of maize, 35 percent of beef and over a half of the country's milk,
pork and tobacco.   This is the subsector which can respond rapidly and has the
potential for significantly increasing its proportion of agricultural produc-
tion in a relatively short period. Moreover, there are certain areas of agri-
culture requiring skills and know-how such as large scale wheat growing,
ranching and processing, which can best be handled within this subsector for
some time to come. The Government has acknowledged these facts, and to en-
courage the comrmercial farmers several fiscal incentives were granted to them
at the beginning of the last Zambian fiscal year.    There are, however, various
constraints to increasing agricultural production in this subsector. Agricul-
tural credit is one of them. DBZ will contribute towards reducing this par-
ticular constraint by making financial resources available to medium and large
scale agricultural enterprises for production and processing. Small scale
agricultural financing will continue to be the responsibility of the
Agricultural Finance Company of Zambia (AFC).



-9-
Tourism
28.       The tourism industry is still in the embryonic stage and its pro-
spects are not clear. The Government is still studying the potential. DBZ is
expected to provide some assistance in this sector as well,
Financial Institutions
29.       Zambia has a large number of financial institutions.    In addition
to the Bank of Zambia (the Central Bank), there are four commercial banks and,
apart from DBZ, six specialized institutions. All of these institutions, with
the exception of the National Savings and Credit Bank, are to some extent in-
volved in financing the industrial sector. On occasion the various institutions
overlap, but more often they supplement one another.
30.       There is no stock exchange in Zambia.    The small one which operated
while Zambia was still part of the Federation with Southern Rhodesia and
Nyasaland ceased to operate in Zambia after Independence. The Central Bank
has been the major institution in the capital market through its issuance of
government securities.
Commercial Banks
31.       The largest commercial bank in Zambia is the state-owned National
Commercial Bank. The three private commercial banks are subsidiaries of
foreign banks. The commercial banks prefer to provide short term financing
and leave medium and long term financing to specialized institutions like
DBZ. Current commercial bank lending rates on term loans range from 8.5 per-
cent to 10 percent per annum, with the majority at 9 percent.
Specialized Institutions
32.       There are six specialized institutions (other than DBZ):
(i) The National Building Society obtains funds through savings
shares and deposits from the general public and loans from
other institutions. It invests in mortgage loans, government
stock, deposits with commercial banks and non-government
securities. Its industrial financing consists of mortgage
financing of industrial buildings.
(ii) The Zambian National Provident Fund is a statutory Board
administering a compulsory retirement savings scheme for
Zambian employees. Its- assets are invested in government
stocks, industrial enterprises and parastatals, It provides
loans as well as equity. Loans have maturity between 10 and
20 years, and carry interest rates of 7.5-8.5 percent per
annum. The Fund is interested in lending to and joint fi-
nancing with DBZ. It has already agreed to lend K 1.0 million
to DBZ.



- 10 -
(iii) The Zambia State Insurance Corporation invests its funds in
government stocks, loans including mortgages and various in-
dustrial and commercial investments, and deposits with other
financial institutions. It is considering the possibility of
lending to DBZ. The Corporation charges between 8-9 percent
per annuni on term loans of up to 10 years.
(iv) The National Savings and Credit Bank receivres deposits from
the general public for which it pays 3.75 percent interest
per annum. While it may make investments in manufacturing
and other enterprises, it has not done as yet. At present
it holds two thirds of its assets in the Building Society
and the remainder in commercial banks and government stocks.
(v) The Agricultural Finance Corporation is primarily a credit
organization and obtains its resources from the Government.
AFC has lent about K 8-10 millicn per annum mostly for
seasonal credit. It charges an interest rate of 8 percent
per annum.
(vi) The Industrial Finance Company was established by the Govern-
ment to finance small commercial and industrial enterprises.
It obtains its resources from Government, parastatals and
commercial banks. Government funds are subsidized, but the
bulk of the resources are borrowed at between 7.5 and 8.5 per-
cent per annum. It has concentrated on financing retail busi-
ness and of late it has taken on hire purchases and leasing
of private and commercial vehicles, and various equipment and
machinery. Hire-purchases, commercial and industrial financing
account for 55, 40, and 5 percent, respectively, of its opera-
tions. It charges beltween 9 and 10 percent per annum. The
company has been of limited effectiveness regarding industrial
financing, owing to a variety of reasons. To ensure adequate
financing for small-scale industry, the Government would need
to strengthen the Company or transfer its industrial operations
to an institution better equipped for the task.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       A report entitled "Appraisal of the Development Bank of Zambia"
(No. 860a--ZA, dated November 19, 1975) is being circulated to the Executive
Directors separately. The project was appraised in March 1975. A loan and
project summary is provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington
from October 6 to October 8, 1975. The Zambian delegation was led by Mr. C. N.
Lihusha, the Managing Director of the Development Bank of Zambia.



34.       The Development Bank of Zambia was established as a statutory cor-
poration with the advice and assistance of the Bank in July 1973, and com-
menced operations in January 1974. Its primary function is to provide medium
and long term loan and equity financing for industrial, large agricultural
production and processing, and tourism projects. It also plans to provide
technical and promotional assistance, and management advisory services to
its clients.
35.       DBZ has an authorized share capital of K 10 million (US$16 million),
consisting of 600 "Class A" shares and 400 "Class B" shares of K 10,000 each.
The Class A shares are reserved for the Government and have already been
subscribed and paid in. The Class B shares are reserved for private and
foreign shareholders. Eight institutions and a group of Yugoslav banks have
subscribed K 2.7 million out of K 4 million Class B shares. It is proposed
that IFC make an equity investment of K 350,000, and DBZ is discussing the
subscription of the remaining share capital with a number of other foreign
institutions.
36.       The Government has the formal power to exercise control over DBZ.
However, the Government is eager to have DBZ operate independently and has
not interfered in the business-like character of its operations. There are
no signs that the Government intends to do so in future. DBZ's management
expects that IFC's inivestment and assistance will enhance DBZ's effectiveness.
Lending Policies
37.       DBZ's operations are guided by its Statemeat of Policy, which was
prepared in consultation with the Bank. Material changes in the Statement of
Policy without Bank approval would be an event of default (Section 5.01(c),
Loan Agreement). The Policy Statement restricts DBZ's assistance to finan-
cially and technically feasible and economically sound projects. According
to the Statement of Policy, DBZ will give priority to projects contributing
towards foreign exchange saving, creation of permanent employment, utilization
of local raw materials, regional balance and Zambian ownership and management;
and will give equal treatment to both the private and public sectors. It
limits DBZ's commitment to a single enterprise,normally to 75 percent of the
borrower's total fixed assets related to the project, or 20 percent of DBZ's
net worth, whichever is less. DBZ's financing must be at least K 25,000;
its equity investment in a single enterprise must not exceed 10 percent of
its net worth or 25 percent of the share capital of the recipient, whichever
is less.
38.       In the past DBZ has charged interest on its loans at rates between
8.5 percent and 10.5 percent per annum. It has decided to raise the minimum
rate to 9 percent per annum and intends to achieve an average rate of at
least 10 percent per annum. DBZ will continue to differentiate its interest
rates in order to allow it to take into account (i) the interest rates charged
by other financial institutions; (ii) the ability of a particular project to
pay a higher rate; (iii) differences in risk. (iv) Government    priority given
to certain types of projects or borrowers; and (v) differences in administra-
tive expenses in relation to revenues from the loan. DBZ will ensure that



- 12 -
its lending rates provide an adequate spread above the cost of its capital.
Should market considerations in the future dictate a reduction in these in-
terest rate levels, DBZ will consult with and obtain comments from the Bank
prior to making any revision. Given the cost of Bank funds, DBZ plans to
onlend proceeds from the proposed Bank loan at 10.5 percent per annum.
Since funds available to DBZ from other sources are limited, this higher
rate will not present a problem in utilizing proceeds from the proposed Bank
loan. DBZ also charges a one time commitment fee equal to one percent of the
loan amount approved and, on each anniversary date, a charge equal to one per-
cent of the unwithdrawn balance. DBZ's statement of policies precludes it
from assuming the foreign exchange risk on its operations. The possibility
of the Government assuming the foreign exchange risk has been under discussion
butit now appears likely that DBZ will pass the exchange risk on to its
sub-borrowers. The DBZ Act: permits a maximum debt/equity ratio of 7:1, but
since DBZ is a new institution a more prudent limit is appropriate.    DBZ has
accordingly agreed to limit its debt/equity ratio for the time being to 4:1
(Section 4.06, Loan Agreement). According to DBZ's projections, this level
will not be reached until the end of FY80.
39.       DBZ is presently establishing a Special Development Fund to finance
projects in the rural areas on concessionary terms. DBZ's general security
and interest rate policies will probably not apply to these operations, which
DBZ plans to finance from separate, concessionary resources. DBZ has already
obtained K 3.1 million fronm two bilateral agencies.
Board of Directors
40.       DBZ's Board of Directors consists of ten members of whom six, in-
cluding the Chairman and Managing Director, are appointed by the Government
("Class A" shareholders), and four, including the Deputy Chairman, are ap-
pointed by "Class B" shareholders. DBZ's present Board includes the Permanent
Secretary of Finance (Chairman), the Economic Advisor to the President, the
Managing Director of INDEC0 and DBZ's Managing Director. So far "Class B"
shareholders have appointed only one director. DBZ expects additional re-
presentatives of "Class B" shareholders to be nominated in due course. To
facilitate IFC's assistance in developing DBZ's policies and operations, it
is being arranged with the support of a number of "Class Br shareholders for
IFC to be represented on the Board. All projects must be approved by the
Board.
Management and Staff
41.       DBZ has a competent management and staff.    The lIanaging Director,
formerly a Director of the African Development Bank and an Under Secretary
in the Ministry of Finance, provides the DBZ with dynamic leadership. The
General Manager, who reports to the Managing Director, was previously one
of the General Managers of Den Norske Kredit Bank. The professional staff
comprise thirty peopLe, of whom eight are expatriates. Presently expatriates
hold most of the senior positions, but they will be progressively replaced as
qualified Zambians acquire the requisite experience. Two Zambian staff
members have undergone training at the EDI, and the DBZ is looking forward
to continued EDI support in further training.



- 13 -
42.       DBZ processing time is short, normallv 3-4 months.    Project ap-
praisal has been of uneven quality, but is generally improving. The economic
analysis has been weak. DBZ will in future calculate the economic rate of
return for projects requiring DBZ financing of more than K 160,000.    Indeed,
DBZ has already developed appraisal guidelines for its staff which include
calculating the economic rate of return. DBZ's procurement and audit proce-
dures are satisfactory.
Current and Future Operations
43.       DBZ made a good start and approved 14 loans amounting to K 6.6 mil-
lion during its first year of operations (ending March 31, 1975), wlhich com-
pares well with the performance of other development finance companies.     From
April to October 1975, DBZ approved 18 more projects for K 6 million. As of
June 30, 1975, DBZ had committed K 7.8 million for 22 projects and had dis-
bursed K 4.1 million. Five of the 14 projects approved during FY1975 are
almost entirely domestic resource based. These include vegetable and fruit
growing and storage, sugar processing (this project will generate 2,300 addi-
tional jobs), a stone quarry and two cattle ranches. Eighty percent of the
approved projects are private, and they account for one third of the approved
amount. About half of the loans were for new enterprises. Although DBZ's
past appraisal work was lacking in economic analysis, the projects approved
so far appear economically sound. Annex III summarizes DBZ's income state-
ment for FY1975 and the DBZ's balance sheet as of March 31, 1975. Adminis-
trative expenses amounted to 4 percent of total assets, which is reasonable
for a new institution. Net profits amounted to one percent of share capital
on an annual basis. The low profitability is common for a new institution.
DBZ's financial condition is sound.
44.       DBZ expects that approvals will amount to K 10 million in FY1976
and will gradually increase to K 22 million in FY1980. This anticipated
level of operation is reasonable in view of DBZ's approvals in the first
year of operation (K 6.6 million) and its pipeline of projects, which as of
October 6, 1975 comprised 23 projects requiring DBZ financing of K 7.1 mil-
lion. The pipeline included only one parastatal project, a fishery project
which accounted for forty percent of the amount. In the private projects
nine, accounting for half of the amount, are for industry. They cover a
variety of subsectors. Most of them will either use domestic raw materials,
be labor intensive or take advantage of high transportation costs to Zambia.
DBZ's pipeline also includes two hotel projects and five bakeries. Consistent
with the Goverrment's emphasis on increasing food production, one third of
DBZ's private projects under study (accounting for 10 percent of the amount)
are for agricultural schemes, including farm and cattle ranch development and
poultry farms. DBZ has not yet made any equity investments and, in view of
the usual low initial returns on equity investments, DBZ does not intend to
make any until FY1977. If operations increase as projected between 1975 and
1980, administrative expenses are expected to decline from about 4 percent to
1 percent of average total assets and net profit would increase gradually
from about 1 percent to 8 percent of average networth (assuming that DBZ
earns a spread of 2 percent on the average cost of borrowing).



- 14 -
Resource Requirements
45.       In addition to the subscription of the remaining shares, DBZ needs
K 30 million to cover its operations until March 31, 1978. Of this, K 24 mil-
lion will be required to finance the import component of DBZ's operations.
DBZ expects to obtain K 14 million from local sources part of which will fi-
nance the import component. It has already reachecl agreement for K 7 million
during FY1976. It expects to obtain K 6 million more from foreign sources
like African Development Bank, Kreditanstalt fur lWiederaufbau, and European
Investment Bank. It is proposed that the Bank fill the remaining foreign
exchange resource gap with a loan of US$15 million (about K 10 million). The
proposed Bank loan would meet one third of DBZ's total resource requirements
(about 42 percent of its foreign resource requirements) through March 31, 1978.
Pro osed Loan
46.       The proposed loan would be on terms similar to those for other
development finance companies and would be repaid according to a flexible
amortization schedule conforming to the aggregate of DBZ subloans which have
a maximum maturity of 15 years. However, in view of the expected high cost
of DBZ's borrowing, the low forecast profitability during the early years
and the need to build up reserves, it is recommended that DBZ be granted
concessionary treatment regarding the commitment charge (i.e., the charge
would only apply from the date investments are authorized by the Bank).
47.       Prior Bank approval would be necessary for each subproject requir-
ing Bank funds in excess of $250,000 and the aggregate free limit would be
$3.0 million (Section 2.02, Loan Agreement). The proposed loan would be
restricted to financing the estimated import component of goods and services
needed for investments supported by DBZ. Procurement would be through normal
trade channels.
Justification of the Loan
48.       As already stated (see Part I), Zambia's dependence on copper ex-
ports has meant perpetual uncertainty for the economy as prices fluctuate
erratically. The Government is anxious to diversify and broaden the economic
base and has established DBZ to play an important role in this diversification
process. Although agriculture is expected to be the mainstay of the economy,
in the near future industry (its share of GDP of 13.2 percent now exceeds that
of agriculture, 10.5 percent) holds better promise for diversification. The
proposed loan would help towards this goal.
49.       DBZ has a pipeline of promising projects, which appear to be con-
sistent with the country's objectives. DBZ and the country are constrained
by a shortage of industrial investment funds. The proposed loan would fill
the resource gap and enable DBZ to cover its operations until March 1978.



- 15 -
50.       Presently DBZ is the only institution in Zambia which undertakes
comprehensive appraisal work on industrial projects. As a new and developing
institution it needs assistance to improve its appraisal capacity and this
assistance can be provided by the Bank and IFC.
PART V - IFC INVESTMENT
51.       An IFC investment of K 350,000 (equivalent to about US$550,000) in
the share capital of DBZ is also proposed. Such an investment, comprising
35 Class B shares at the par value of K 10,000 each, would correspond to
9 percent of the authorized Class B share capital, wlhiclh is reserved for
private and foreign shareholders, and 3.5 percent of the total share capital.
The main conditions of the IFC subscription would be:
(i)  that the Bank and DBZ should have entered into an agreement
providing for a loan of US$15 million to DBZ and that such
agreement should have become effective, and
(ii) that rules satisfactory to IFC concerning various procedural
matters (such as convening of shareholders' and Directors'
meetings, rights of shareholders. appointment of Class B
Directors etc.), upon which the Development Bank of Zambia
Act is silent, should have been agreed by the DBZ shareholders.
52.       DBZ is essentially the only local source of medium- and long-term
finance for the private sector. Most of its operations to date have been in
the private sector and it can be expected that DBZ will continue to be a major
source of financing for productive private enterprise in Zambia. The Govern-
ment supports DBZ's Statement of Operations Policies, which expresses inter
alia the giving of equal priority to parastatal and private projects. This
policy statement cannot be materially changed without the approval of the Bank.
53.       IFC could make a significant contribution to the development of the
policies and operations of DBZ through representation on the DBZ Board of
Directors. A number of Class B shareholders have expressed thle support needed
for such IFC representation on the DBZ Board. Since the financial return on
the IFC investment is expected to be modest, the investment should be considered
more in terms of its developmental role than in terms of financial attractiveness.
54.       The main issue in connection with the proposed IFC investment arises
from the fact that DBZ is a statutory corporation with a government majority.
Though a substantial percentage of DBZ's share capital would be held by private
financial institutions (at least 10.5 percent of authorized share capital) and
by foreign or international public financial institutions (at least 20 percent
including IFC), the Government will still have the formal power to control the
activities of DBZ.   The Government, however,   has not interfered in the past
operations of DBZ, and we expect that DBZ will be able to continue to operate
as an autonomous institution in a businesslike manner.



- 16 -
55.       Attached to the appraisal report is an outline of relevant laws
of the Republic of Zambia affecting the investment by IFC.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRU4ENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and DBZ, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Zambia and the Bank, the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank, the text of a resolution approving the proposed loan
and the text of a resolution approving the proposed IFC investment, are being
distributed separately. The draft loan documents conform to the normal pattern
for loans to development finance companies.
57.       In accordance with Article III, Section 3 (ii), of the Articles of
Agreement of the Corporation notice of the proposed investment has been given
to the Government of Zambia, and it has replied that it has accepted the
Investment.
58.       Zambia has signed and ratified the ICSID Convention.    However, there
are no contracts or concessions between Zambia and any foreign private investor
in the context of this investment which might give rise to an investment dispute.
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank, and that the proposed investment would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Corporation.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that :
(a) The Executive Directors of the Bank approve the proposed
loan and that,
(b) the Board of Directors of the Corporation approve the
proposed investment by the Corporation.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 29, 1976



Page 1 of 3 Pages
COUNTRY DATA - ZAMBIA
AREA                                                  POPULATION                                    DENSIITY
752.6Th   ka2                                           5.5    elfin, (eid-1972)                      .          Per kmOof ara bic land
SOCIAL INDICATORSS
Reference Coutries
Zambia                   Gebo         Chile   Yu,sa1   e
____         ~~~~~~19flj   1970          I970
GN? PER CAPITA U5$ (ATLAS BASIS) /..380 /                                                             80 Ia        800 La        iou L
DIMDGRAPHIC
CudebiUr~th rate (per th-usud)                                     51 /b          50 $.33 /c                      30di             /
Crude death rate (per thousand)                                   19 7b           21  c             25 7c          9              /
Infant mortality rate (per thousand live blcths)                  259 7?          ..                              79           53 /
Life expectanc.y at birth (years)                                 io 7Wr          Si/               39            62/          68/
Gcone reproduction rate 3761
Population growth rate L                                         3.0             2. A/                           2.3          1.
Ppulation growth rate - urbac.                                                   i  j               87)7          57 
Age atocture (percent)i67359                                                                                                    2,0
L5-64                                                           527?           51/               66             556i:
65 and or13 7?                                                                  3                  56                         .7
Age depeodaecy ratio L4                                           1.6 7r         1.0   o            o8            0.8          0. 
E....onic dependency ratio /5                                     i..8 7?                           0.9           1.6          0.! /
Urcban populotio- os perceot of total.                                            34 /dki           32 /1         76 /n,       3~    ,a
PFmil:, planning:  No. of acceptors  -u1ultive (thou.)            ..                                .-
No. of use rs (% sf carried wo,nec)            ...
EMPLOYMWN
Total lbor force (thousands)                                      .           1,210 /              275 /qJL    3,100 /      8, 900 /
Peroec.tago  nplcyod bo agiulue                                 .S                 7?             58            19     ~     ul
Percentage   .mnpyloy.d                                        ..                O    a          ..3.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percent of cotional incomo recived by higheot 5%                  33 /t o0                                                     1    L 
Percen't of natioc1 i-oon   rec...tod by highest 20%              5~                                              57v4.c 
Pec,tof nutio..a  inoone. ro..nivod by lowest 20%                                                              v~.    ~T
Paroes t ofotiocul inooro rece ived by lowest 50%                       .                           .             13     v 1FF  15
DISTRIBUTION OP LARD Oh4ERSHBIP
% ounod by top 10T of owners
5 cwned by sna1lest 10% of owners
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Population per physician                                      12,0)/         13 I,50             5,1CC 7Ic     2:1,00L      1,010
PPopultIon Per cusn     pro                                    3,060          2,5     6             o   ?       ,2   /         1
Population per hospital bed                                      35) If          310 /4            10) 7         250          180
Per oupita calorie sopply as 5 of reqoire....ts /                 87 /~           88                95           101          125
Per capita protein supply, to tal (grass Per dayT /6              6: /z          6a                 56            71           92
Of  hiob, aniel and Poles..                                                     25 /ea.           30 /ea        32           29 /
Death rate 1-5 years Li..7..                                                                                       3 4        2.6 
EDUCATION                                                                           816                      _     l    /,       g
Adju.sted /8 prinory school enrollment ratio                      5               518/.b                         19/.b         9
Adjuste.d Rhs.eondary school enrollment ratio                      2              12                16            29           55
Tears of     ..hling provided, first and secon d leve             12             12                 13            12           12
Voca.tioa ..sIeroillment as 5 of s-n school erlon                 28              15 /ao            15            33           72
Adult literacy ruts 5                                            ..              53 7Wd.a           30 /o.ad.ae   90 A6.d.a    85/a
HOUSING
Average No. of persons per rune (urban)                          *              2.4./              ..                  1.3a   1.
Percent of occupied unite   itihot piped water                   .               51                 .              07j         66
Access to electrinity (ne 5 of total population)                  28 /aA        L.                   O /.a.i      85 La        88
Percent of trura  population oconsotod to nl.etrli.ty                           .                   20 ZiP        30 /d        80 /p,h
CONSUMPTION,r
Passen.ger cars per l00  pepu1stion                               11             15   a1i                         195
Elot    r    paeonosemption (keh P.o.)                     681   Z      1,075 2' 6j                         9         1,570
Newsprint consumption p.c. kg per year                           0.8 Lit        0.                               5.7  i       5yL
Rotes: Fig-ro    refer either to the iciest perioda or to                nnn.favroetltmeaue                     oywihs         n
the lairn, yearn,   intent periodo refer in principle in                diatribution by' -agend axof national POPuiation-.
tbv yes.s 1956-60 or 1966-70; tho iatest yearn in prim-            /6   Prote9in standards (requtrenete) for all nountrisa as estat-
cip1e to 1.960 and 1970.                                                linhed by USDA EnononicJ Resea.rch iervice provide for a niiAsu
L. lThe Por- Capito GNP entinate in at nakmt priovo for                 ollowance of 60 gra_   nf total protein Per day, anud 20 grass of
yoae othor thou 196o,e.ci    .itnd by the cane conerson           animal and pulse Protein, of hbioh 10 g-m      should be animat
technique as ths 1972 World Ban] Atlon.                            protein.   Theas standards are somehat lover than those of 75
/jAveroge number of deughters per wouc      of reproductive           gram   fttlpoenad2              en    faia       rti     sa
age.                                               uve~~~~~~~~~~~~'rage for the world, proposed by PAO in the Third World Food
agoPeul.tingecirbeoefr               h   vcdsenigi
1960Pund.t. 197.thrtsa             .    h   d  d.sd~             /7   Som  studies have suggested that erode death rates of child.s.
1960tl   ofpplto-ned1              n   5adoe       to9pophi    -      age1 through S nay he used as a first approximation indea of
ties of ages 15-65 for age dependeny ratio and in labor            malnutritio..
force of ages 15-65 for eooxictdepnde..ny ratio.               /8  Percentage enro1ld of norr-e-sp.ndig population of school age
/5 FAG refernce standards represent physiological re-                us dfined for each country.
qulraoents for nocnml activity and health, taking
/a 1972;   /b   Estinate for African population boned en analysIs of 1963 census;         Ic  1965-70, UK estisate;     Ld   1973;
7?e   1950;   7T   1963;   /4   1969-70;   /h   1970-71;    /i  1960-72-    L.  19,65-69;   N    ReIn towns and as   maY small
township.som could he separtely identified;        Li. Settlements having a population over 2,00G inhabittante        /.   Populated
centers which have definite urban chmrateristies contributed by certain public and eol-ciphi services;             F4 Fr
deiition of urban see       D. ))~pgp7iph  eay'book192   page 157,     /   1969;    La  1971;    Z&  Estimate;    Li 15-49 yerar;
/4  ersions seeking work;           9 7155jji( use'holds;     4   1969;   /4   19962;  /x   Peroonn1 in government aervices only;
/4 Including   idiven and nursing auxiliaries;       /   1 961;   lea  1965-66;    /ab  Including overage students;      /a-   1965;
/ad   iS years and over;    /.e   Definition not available;     /af   Filed water loi..d;    lag   Data refer to households;
7F Percentage of d-lilinga;     /ai   Urban only;    Laj  Dinta for Southern Rhodsia and Malawi are included.
*Ylgoslecla in nelected as an objeotive country because it has a higher degree of devalopsent nitb exten.sice state
Participation in lodunry and conoerce; also the agricultormi sector, the donloat nectar of esploynnt, Is
developing from a relatively low level of productivity.
U3 Apr61 25, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1973                                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH (%. constant prices)
US$ Mln.      %                      1965 -69          1970 -73
GNP at Market Prices         2,356      100.0                      5.6              2.1
Gross Domestic Investment      666       28.3                     19.5              6.2
Gross National Saving          837       35.5                     10.2              3.0
Current Account Balance       171         7.3
Exports of Goods, NFS        1,216       51.6                      0.4              1.6
Imports of Goods, NFS         783        33.2                      9.6             -1.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added                 Labor Force1/                V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.                       Mln.      %                  US $         X
Agriculture                   219      15.2              o.656      54.3                  334       28.0
Industry                      718      49.8              0.176      lb.5                4,087      342.0
Services                      506      35.0              0.298      24.6                1,698      142.0
Unallocated                     .       .                0.079       6.6
Total/Average        77tL3     100.0              1.209     100.0                1,193      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                      2/
General Govermnent                          Central Government
(  Mlnj )   ,g_of GDP                  (    MiaEn.)      % of GDP
197          1972      1970 -72              1974        1974      1971 - 74
Current Receipts         )                                                    650         36           28
Current Expenditure      )                                                    406         22           24
Current Surplus          )                                                    244         13            4
Capital Expenditures     )                                                    162          9            10
External Assistance (net) )                                                     37         2             2
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES               1965         1969       1970        1971       1972        1973   1974
FMl1ion K. outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                  113.7        281.5      355.6       318.5      341.1       410.8  440.6
Bank credit to Public Sector           -8&t.9      -1?0.5     -169.7        18.3      148.0       199.3   79.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector 3/        L2.5        114.2      1h2.'9      183.1      165.4       176.8  337.3
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP       ..           20.7       28. 3       27.0       26.0        25.2    24.2
General Price Index (1963 - 100)       107.9        135.7      141.9       151.4      161.1       170.8   185.1
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                     +4.9         +6.2        4.6         6.7        6.4         6.o     8.4
Bank credit to Public Sector             .            .          .           .        708.7        34.7   -60.0
Bank credit to Private Sector 3/        ..          +24.9      +25.1       +28.1       -9.7         6.9    90.8
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at ';he average exchange rate prevailing dnring the period
covered.
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocatedit consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ Figures do not differ significantly         .. not available
from "Central Government".                  . not applicable
3/ Includes parastatal organizations.



ANNEX I
rage j or 3 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLWS
BALA,NCE OF PAYMENTS                                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1970-73)
1973      1T                                                            US $ Mln    %
(Millions US$)
Exports of Goods, NFS        1,216.b    1,425.8                      Copper                              921.0    94.0
Imports of Goods, NFS          783.3    l,101.4                     Lead, Zinc, Cobalt                   39.3      4.0
Resource Gap (deficit = -)   -kllT --77l7fl                         All other commodities                 19.9  ,  2.0
Total                90.      100.0
Factor Payments (net)         -134.7    -112.3
Net Transfers                  -142.3   -140.4
Balance on Current Account     155T       71./
Direct Foreign Investment        ..       ..                        EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1974
Net MLT Borrowing (Public)
Disbursements                187.9     81.1                                                                 US $ Mln
Amortization                 -56.0    -40.5
Subtotal                    T31.9     17i0f7                       Public Debt, incl. guararteed            1,091.7
Capital Grants                   15.3      1.6                        Non-Guaranteed Private Debt              _    _..
Other Capital (aet)            -281.6    -28.1                        Total outstanding & Disbursed            1,091.7
Other items n.e.i               -39.9    -39.0
Increase in Reserves (         +)            8DEBT SERVICE RATIO (%)
1974
Gross Reserves (end year)      190.4     171.1
Net Reserves    (end year)     106.1     152.9                        Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              5.4
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstanding & Disbutrsed
IBRD/IDA LENDING. (NOVEMBER 30. 1975) (Million US$):
IBRD         IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding & Disbursed               181.8
Before February 1973            Since February 1973             Undisbursed                           162.8
US $ 1.00 = Kwacha 0.7'14       U=                    Owa&   .4d  outstanding incl. Undisbursed       344.6
K 1-00 = US $ .4LO              K 1.00 = US$l.554
l/  Ratio of estimated Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services in 1974.
not available
not ipplicable



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as at November 30. 1975)
-    amount (less cancellations)
VS$ million
Loan
No.     Year     Borrower           Purpose             Bank               Undisbursed
9 loans fully disbursed                                109.7
592     1969     Zambia             Education            17.4                  5.0
645     1969    Zambia              Education             5.3                  1.1
685     1970     Zambia             Crops Farming         5.5                    .7
701     1970    Kariba North        Power S-ation        40.0                    .1
701-1           Bank Company                             42.1                 21.6
882     1973     Zambia             Integrated Family    11.5                  8.7
Farming
900     1973     Zambia             Education            33.0                 29.4
919     1973     Zambia Electric--  Hydroelectric       115.0                 76.6
ity Supply Corp..   Power
1057    1974     Zambia             Urban Develop-       20.0                 19.6
ment
1131    1975     Posts & Tele.      Teleconmiunica-      32.01/               32.0
Corp.               tions
Total                          431.5                 194.8
of which has been repaid     54.9
Total now outstanding           376.6
Amount sold       38.6
of which has
been repaid     23.7           9.9
Total now held by Bank2/       366f1
of which is undisbursed      194.8                 194.8
(Undisbursed of
participations)                 9.3
1/ Effective since December 11), 1975.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. STATENENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as at December 31, 1975)
Investment                                                               (US$ million)
No.          Year             Obligor      Type of Business      Loan    Equity    Total
216 ZA         1972       Zambia Bata Shoe   Shoe manufacturing    0.85     0.23     1.08
Co. Ltd.
250 ZA         1973       Zambia Bata Shoe   Shoe manufacturing    1.20      -       1.20
Co. Ltd.          and tannery
307 ZA         1975       Century Packages  Packaging materials    0.78     0.26     1.04
Ltd.
Total gross comnmitments                                           2.83     0.49     3.32
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales             1.37      -       1.37
Total now held by IFC                                              1.46     0.49     1.95
Total undisbursed                                                  0.78     0.26     1.04



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.   Bank Projects in Execution 1/
Loan No. 592-ZA - First Education Project: US$17.4 million loan of April 11,
1969; Effective Date:  July 15, 1969; Closing Date: March
30, 1977
As a result of prolonged negotiations with the architectural con-
sultants, budget reductions in 1972 due to a decline in copper prices, poor
management in the early stages of project implementation, and more recently
shortages of construction materials and difficulties of several major con-
tractors, the project is about three years behind schedule. Remaining
difficulties are being overcome but it is likely that the revised March 31,
1977 Closing Date will require a further postponement of about 9 to 12 months.
Latest project cost estimates indicate an increase :Ln cost of about 8.7
percent which is manageable. Educational objectives are being met.
Loan No. 645-ZA - Second Education Project: USS5.3 million loan of November
30, 1969; Effective Date: May 5, 1970; Closing Date:
March 31, 1976.
Construction work is complete except for the final installation
of an 800 kva transformer which is expected to be completed soon. The
loan Closing Date has been extended to March 31, 1976 to allow completion
of procurement of equipment and submission of withdrawal application. A
savings of about US$0.9 million in the Loan proceeds is expected in the
equipment category resulting basically from equipment contributions by bila-
teral sources. Educational objectives are being met but at a slower pace
than originally envisaged. The Bank is considering a request by the Borrower
to include additional related work in the project in order to utilize the
expected savings. If approved, a further postponement of about two years
to the loan Closing Date would be required.
Loan No. 685-ZA - Commercial Crops Farming Project: US$5.5 million loan of
June 5, 1970; Effective Date: October 15, 1970; Closing
Date: December 31, 1976
The Mukonchi and Popota training establishments continue to train
Assisted Tenant Farmers. Development of Mukonchi East continues satis-
factorily and by 1980 it will comprise a settlement of some 20,000 people.
However, provision has not been made for a properly planned community.
The Tobacco Board of Zambia (TBZ), the project executing agency, still has
1/   These notes are (lesigned to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they
do not purport tc present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses
in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
many senior vacancies. This organizational problem is aggravated by lack of
coordination at senior levels and insufficient departmental control. As a
consequence, disbursements are in arrears although claiming procedures are
well understood.
Loan No. 701-ZA - Kariba North Project: US$82.1 million loan of July 29,
1970, as amended on December 6, 1974; Effective Date:
December 16, 1974; Closing Date: July 1, 1976
Steady progress continues on this project, which is now in the last
stage of construction, but delays in completion of some of the civil works
and delays in erection of generators caused by transport bottlenecks may
cause a postponement in commissioning of the station to March 1976, five months
after the target date of October 1975. There is no change in the cost esti-
mates since the possibility of such a delay was foreseen.
Loan No. 882-ZA - Integrated Family Farming Project: US$11.5 million loan
of February 28, 1973; Effective Date: July 26, 1973
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project is not progressing well due, in part, to slow farmer
recruitment. A review of the project's main objectives, costs and benefits
is required and will be carried out by the Tobacco Board of Zambia prior to
the next supervision. TBZ does not give enough support to the Project
Manager who is short of capable scheme managers and has poor accounting,
administrative and other internal supporting services.
Loan 900-ZA - Third Education Project: US$33.0 million loan of June 6, 1973;
Effective Date: August 9, 1973; Closing Date: September 30,
1979
Project implementation is generally proceeding satisfactorily.
Initial delays resulting from belated appointments of certain key staff are
being overcome. Recruitment of technical assistance specialists in health
education is still delayed but problems are expected to be resolved shortly.
Difficulty is being experienced in obtaining contractors to construct numerous
small facilities located in remote areas resulting in more than anticipated
costs and delay in implementation. Alternate courses of action are under
study in this regard. The Borrower has decided to split the University into
three separate campuses which may result in modification to the Loan Agreement.
More precise information is expected from Government on the University component
which represents about 10 percent of the total project. The Project is expected
to be completed by the original loan closing date.



Page 5 of 6
Loan 919-ZA - Kafue Hydroelectric Proiect ((>tago II): US.l115.720 mii.9j
loan of July 16, _1_973; Fffective Date:  Januarv 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1971
Construction of the project is proceeding', with ;,omc prob]ems rind
a minor delay. The civil works are about three months behind the :iDpraisa)
schedule but expectations are that the delay w11l he nride un and the main
civil works completed by end of 1077, as planned.    The Zambihi. Electrlcitv'
Supply Corporation's (ZESCO) management on the financial side is weak, bhut
management consultants have been hired and a ccompetent C2hief Accountant
was recruited recentlv.   ZESCO's financial performance hn!2 heen unsatl-
factory, chiefly because retail tariffs have not yielded the anticipated
revenues and administrative expenses have soared.    A substantial increa;s
(over 35 percent) in the retail tariffs is needed if ZESCO is to meet its
8 percent rate of return covenant and the Government is now considering
detailed tariff proposals prepared by the utilitty.
Loan No. 1057-ZA - Lusaka Squatter Upgradin_ .--nd Site and Services Project:
US$20.0 mi:Llion loan of December 6, 1974; Effective Date:
April 1, 1975: Closing Date:   December 31, 1979
Project execution is now proceeding satisfactorily after initial.
delays caused by postponement of loan signing and the Implementation Unit's
unfamiliarity with Bank procurement procedures.   UIpgrading of the first
major squatter settlement should be completed in mid--1976. Some site and
services plots should be readv for allocation later in 1976 with a3L of
them being serviced by mid-1977. All squatter areas should be upgraded
by mid-1978.
Loan No. 1131-ZA - Telecommunications Project:    IJS$3' million loan off
June 24, 1975; Effective D)a:e: December 10 1975;
Closing Date:   December 31, 1980
Invitations to bid for the switching equipment of Lhe. pro0ect ,re
expected to be sent out before the end of March 1976. The orfanizational
structure of the new Corporation has been approved.    The, report on the. Ccr-
poration's financial and accounting organization has been received and lrnplo--
mentation of the proposed systems is proceeding.



ANNEX T1
Page 6 of r,
D.   IFC Projects in Execution 1/
Zambia Bata Shoe Company Ltd. - 216 ZA and 250 ZA - Shoes and Tannery
Both the shoe proJect and the tannery projoct financed by IFC were
completed in 1974. The Company continues to perform well. For the first
nine months of 1975, sales were 10% higher and net profits before tax 157
higher than for the equivalent period in 1974.
Century Packages Ltd. - 307 ZA - Packaging Materlals
The Company is awaiting the issuance of letters of credit for the
imported equipment. Some delay in implementation of the project is likely.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Board of Directors on the stattis
of the existing projects and to report upon problems including those
relating to undisbursed investments, which are being encountered and of
the actions being taken to remedy such problems. These notes are not
comprehensive in terms of factual content nor are they intended to
present a balanced evaluation of each investment.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ZAMBIA
LOAN AND PROJECT SWMMARY
BORROWER:                      Development Bank of Zambia
GUARANTOR:                     Republic of Zambia
AMOUNT:                        US$15.0 million equivalent
TERMS:                         Repayable substantially in conformity with the
aggregate of the amortization schedules for sub-
loans and investments for which withdrawls from
the loan account are used; interest at 8.5 percent
per annum. The commitment change would apply from
the date investments are authorized by the Bank.
RELENDING TERMS:               Given the cost of Bank funds, DBZ plans to onlend
proceeds from the proposed Bank Loan at an interest
rate of 10.5 percent per annum for a period of up
to 15 years. DBZ expects to pass on the foreign
exchange risk to its sub-borrowers.
PURPOSE:                       To meet part of DBZ's financial requirements
for the financing of the import component
of industrial, tourism and large agricultural
projects through March 1978.
FINAL DATE FOR
PROJECT SUBMISSIONS:           March 31, 1978
FREE LIMIT:                    US$250,000 for individual sub-projects; US$3.0
million aggregate limit.
DEBT COVENANTS:                Maximum long-term debt/equity ratio 4:1
ESTIMLATED DISBURSEHENTS:
Year ending June 30       1976     1977       1978    1979
US$ million               0.25     5.20       7.00    2.55
PROCUREMENT:                   Through normal commercial channels.
APPRAISAL REPORT:              Report No. 860a-ZA dated November 19, 1975
DFC Department, Africa Division



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Year ending March 31               1975      1976      1977     1978      1979      1980
(actual)           (in K'OOO)
Projected Commitments:
Loans                           6,600    10,000   12,000    15,000    18,000   21,000
Equity                            -         -         250      500       750    1,000
Total                 6 600   10,000    12,250   15,500    18,750    22,000
Projected Income Statements:
Total revenue                      398      836     1,683    2,815     4,068     5,428
Financial and adminis-
trative expenses                328       570     1,187    2,129     3,190    4,241
Provisions                         -         98       165      204       242       287
Net income                      ====Io    ==1      ==-331   ===4-- -348            950
As a % of average net worth     1%        2%         3%        5%       6%        9%
Projected Balance Sheets:
Current assets                  2,720     2,376    2,913     2,618    2,801     2,552
Portfolio (net)                 3,800   10,252    20,112    31,310   44,220    59,360
Fixed assets                      633    1,287     1,614     2,46     2,392     2,392
Total assets         4^153    13a915   24.639    361074    492413   64 304
Current liabilities                63       107       125      140       155       170
Long-term debt                     74     3,524   13,899    24,837   37,525    51,451
Equity                          7,016   10,284    10        11,7     1733      12,683
Total liabilities
and equity                 7L1153    j3Ω±12    24a22    2    _    4941g3 644303
Debt/equity ratio               0.01     0.34      1.31      2.24      3.20     4.00



-7 '        TA IGA/BA  T A N Z A N I A
ZAMBIA 
Z                      A  M  BI  A  1 l / 6o: su#u,9 ...... o<\'\~~~~I  1   /  mpw_
j ROADS         --.-- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES          I         - /
RAILWAYS          4  AIRPORTS              4                    Mpoo/
RAILWAYS UNDER CONSTRUCTION  NATIONAL PARKS
PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES  - =  RIVERS
-- _ 8\Z Kawombwa \> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  O   R  T  H ,,A RN 
MA,IOR MINES            9           l         J       \          _3
RXICOPPER 
R LEAD AND ZINC     \  C           /   z   o z             I +   r M
m CR  E  P UjEt 
N     R T H                  E R I   COPPEREELT
!  a  ooKotomP   S     8           t     o                  -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ch,pa.o
I                 '  '1  ----t---L ts ~~~~~~~r,  he- -s, -       l - -  -  -S
W                                                                      M E S T E R NO Z A MBI Q U E
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TOE .      SOTCoIO  Mozobulo-au   z_,=
!    PSer. nga    ~~~~~~~~~K.t.b.               h  , i 
K           OSIoma     t //  SO' 0: U T H   ER   N
\ ~ ~~~~~~~~                         -                                       -a<uoe   hm9Pma/ a
"''  '.(                      ,   NIVIVgV  j I fs           n-D¢a   r ¢          .-
-. _._     90    <Zzubo      MamOVIVo P       1' 
. M                                                       _  _  _- _ _ _ _ _ aF IC 
,, _  ~~  > ib t It t A   ,   tr F_%  LlvmgVI   't                100      200
t./              Z, Ae
B OT SW AN A           25'  si\                                 s 3o
_ ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   h



