CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1210 ZA
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(DBZ Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 18, 1976


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 18, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF
ZAMBIA (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Development Bank of Zambia (hereinafter called the
Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars
($15,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guar-
antee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 2 to
the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being hereinafter called
the General Conditions).
Sectlon 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional
terms have the.following meanings:
(a) "Minister" means the member of the Cabinet of the Guar-
antor responsible for finance under the Loans and Guarantees
(Authorization) Act, Chapter 601 of the Laws of Zambia; and
(b) "local authority" means, with respect to the Guarantor,
a city council, a municipal council, a rural council, or any other
government'" authority of the Guarantor (other than its central
government) which has power to raise revenues by taxation and to
charge such revenues or any of its assets as security for external
debt.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreaiant, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as -z'rimary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth in the Loan
Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member.
To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public assets
(as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt, which
will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor
of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall other-
wise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and rat-
ably secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or permitting the creation
of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets
of any of its local authorities, the Guarantor shall promptly and
at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall aot apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿-5-
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any local authority thereof and of any
entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or ben-
efit of, the Guarantor or any such local authority, including gold
and other foreign exchange assets held by any institution perform-
ing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund,
or similar functions, for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take,
or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or instrumen-
talities or any of its agencies or any agency or instrumentality
of any such political subdivisions to take, any action which would
prevent or interfere with the performance by the Borrower of its
obligations contained in the Loan Agreement and will take or cause
to be taken all reasonable action necessary or appropriate to ena-
ble the Borrower to perform such obligations.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of the Guarantor is designated as
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Planning and Finance
P.O. Box R.W. 62
Ridgeway
Lusaka, Zambia
Cable address:
FINANCE, RIDGEWAY
Lusaka
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By /s/ Siteke G. Mwale
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 1sf Stanley Please
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


