                     PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                               CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                                   May 15, 2012
                                                                            Report No.: AB7041

 Operation Name                     Second Programmatic Fiscal Sustainability and Growth
                                    Resilience Development Policy Loan
 Region                             LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN
 Country                            Colombia
 Sector                             General public administration sector (40%); Public
                                    administration- Financial Sector (40%); Non-compulsory
                                    health finance (20%).
 Operation ID                       P129465
 Lending Instrument                 Development Policy Lending
 Borrower(s)                        MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT
 Implementing Agency                MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT
                                    Public Credit and Treasury,
                                    Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
                                    Carrera 8A No. 6-64
                                    Bogotá, Colombia
                                    Tel: (57-1) 381-2156 Fax: (57-1) 350-7422
                                    mfsuarez@minhacienda.gov.co
 Date PID Prepared                  May 15, 2012
 Estimated Date of Appraisal        July 20, 2012
 Estimated Date of Board            October 18, 2012
 Approval
 Corporate Review Decision          Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                    proceed with the preparation of the operation.

       Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

The Government of Colombia has requested a Second Programmatic Fiscal Sustainability
and Growth Resilience Development Policy Loan for US$200 million. A First DPL for
US$300 million was approved by the Board in July 2011. This document describes a proposed
second DPL which builds on the progress achieved under the first DPL in support of the fiscal
management program of the Government of Colombia. The operation is prepared in the context
of increased commodities (primarily oil) production, mounting long term social sector liabilities,
and rising fiscal risks associated with natural hazards.

The reform program supported by the loan series seeks to enhance fiscal sustainability and
strengthen growth resilience. The program includes a series of measures that can be grouped
along three main policy reform areas: (a) improved budget predictability and stability, (b)
improved social security liability management, and (c) improved disaster risk financing
management. The implementation of a fiscal rule with a stabilization fund seeks to reduce and
cap the structural fiscal deficit in the medium-term and improve the fiscal management of
commodity windfalls. A series of tax reforms aim to strengthen the sufficiency, efficiency and
equity of the tax system. The gradual expansion of the scope and coverage of the Treasury
Single Account enhances the efficiency of cash management. These measures will improve
budget predictability and stability, which are the cornerstone for sound macroeconomic
management of an economy which is increasingly relying on commodities. The commodity
bonanza increases popular demand for increased government spending, particularly in the social
sectors. An updated version of the Mandatory Benefit Package of the health insurance system
along with complimentary cost-controlling administrative measures will improve the
management of social security liabilities. A final set of measures are expected to strengthen the
management of disaster risk financing, including the development of a national disaster
financing strategy and the creation of an Agricultural Risk Management and Financing
Directorate in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.

        Proposed Objective(s)
The fiscal management program supported by this operation is expected to enhance fiscal
sustainability and strengthen economic growth resilience.

       Preliminary Description

The Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Public Credit has issued the implementing
regulations of the fiscal rule (in progress). The first DPL supported the presentation to
Congress of a Fiscal Rule Bill of Law, which was eventually approved in July 2011. The second
DPL supports the implementation of this Law. The Rule sets an interim target for the central
government structural fiscal deficit of 2.3 percent of GDP by 2014. Moderate counter-cyclical
fiscal stimulus is temporarily permitted in times of sluggish economic growth. Windfall
revenues resulting from a favorable economic or commodity cycles are to be accumulated in a
stabilization fund. Fiscal rule implementation will be monitored by an independent advisory
committee.

The Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Public Credit has issued the implementing
regulation of the tax reform contained in Law 1430 of 2010 (completed). The implementing
regulations of Law 1430 have been fully issued. To illustrate, changes to the financial
transaction tax are covered in Regulating Decree 660 of 2011. Issues related to VAT were
regulated in Decrees 493 and 1919 of 2011. The energy surcharge of manufacturing was
regulated in Decrees 2915 of 2011 and modified by Decree 4955 of 2011. Finally, inefficiencies
related to declarations of retentions at the source were covered in Decree Law 0019 of 2012.

The Borrower has presented to Congress, for approval thereby, the Structural Tax Reform
Bill of Law (in progress). The Government is expected to present to Congress a structural tax
reform law in 2012. The objectives of the reform are to improve the equity, efficiency, and
simplicity of the tax system.

The Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Public Credit has taken steps to expand the scope
and coverage of the Treasury Single Account (in progress). This includes (i) issuance of a
Presidential Decree which partially regulates Article 261 of the Law 1450; (ii) approval by the
Minister of Finance of the conceptual model for the TSA system.
The Government has updated the Mandatory Benefit Package of both the contributive and
subsidized regimes (completed). Agreement (Acuerdo) 29 dated December 28, 2011,
constitutes the first update of the Mandatory Benefit Package and forms part of the
implementation of Law 1438 of 2011 which stipulates that such updates must take place every
two years. Through this measure, the Government seeks to improve the predictability of public
financing of the health insurance system and to facilitate the future introduction of more refined
cost-containing tools that also foster the quality of care through evidence-based medicine. The
Agreement also introduces the future use of a list of exclusions (negative list) thereby reducing
the risk of supply induced demand and strengthening the scope for priority setting.

The Ministry of Finance and Public Credit has published a National Disaster Financing
Strategy (Completed). The main components of the Strategy include: development of risk
transfer solutions for public buildings, transport infrastructure, and housing, as well as the design
of the institutional framework. The Strategy outlines a roadmap for the 2012-14 period for a
more comprehensive financial protection of the State. This includes a series of subsequent
analytical, procedural and legal steps.

The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development has taken steps to create an
Agricultural Risk Management and Financing Directorate, as envisaged in the National
Development Plan (in progress). The creation of this Directorate forms part of a more
comprehensive process of organizational restructuring within the Ministry.

       Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects


Poverty and Social Impacts

The Government actions, supported in this DPL, are expected to have a positive poverty
and social impact. The anticipated impact of each of the supported reforms is discussed below,
in turn.

   The fiscal rule contributes to improved fiscal performance and macroeconomic
    stability, which is an important foundation for sustained economic growth and poverty
    reduction. Moreover, the fiscal rule strengthens the capacity of the Government to pursue
    counter-cyclical fiscal policy, including the implementation of social programs that can
    protect the poor and vulnerable in times of growth decelerations.

   The 2010 tax reform is expected to have had a small positive impact on low income
    households. The social and poverty impact of the structural tax reform are yet to be
    assessed.

   The poor will not be affected negatively by the update of the mandatory benefit package
    which expands access to goods and services to be provided to minors and the elderly in
    the subsidized regime.

   The poor are expected to benefit from the effective disaster risk management efforts,
    including the post-disaster construction activities.       Natural disasters have a
    disproportionate impact on the poor. The poor population is more likely to be affected and
    less resilient to disasters occurrence.

   Support to agricultural risks management will have positive effects on the rural
    population, particularly small farmers. By making fiscal outlays for the management of
    agriculture risks more predictable it is expected that small farmers will have access to more
    readily accessible support to prevent and respond to production losses due to natural
    disasters.

Environment Aspects

The proposed operation is not likely to have any significant effects on the environment.
Following OP 8.60, the operation was reviewed for any potential effects relating to the
environment, forest, and natural resources. As this operation focuses on implementing fiscal
reforms and fiscal risk management it is not expected to have any impact on the environment.


        Tentative financing
Source:                                                                               ($m.)
Borrower                                                                                  0
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                                   200
Borrower/Recipient                                                                        0
                                                                     Total              200

       Contact point

World Bank
Contact: Lars Christian Moller
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: 5280+254 / 57-1-326-3600
Email: lmoller@worldbank.org
Location: Bogota, Colombia (IBRD)

Borrower
Contact:       María Fernanda Suárez Londoño
Title:         Director General of Public Credit and National Treasury
Tel:           (57-1) 381 2156
Email:         mfsuarez@minhacienda.gov.co

       For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
