OFFICAL         L 3J       S-CO
DOCUMEITS
REPUBLICOF C0hMIA.
cem   /   , 2012
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
18 18 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Re: Loan No. 8223-CO
(Second Programmatic Fiscal Sustainability and Growth Resilience
Development Policy Loan)
Article VI of the Ge;ieral Conditions
Financial and Economic Data
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
In connection with the Loan Agreement of this date between the Republic of Colombia
(Member Country) and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Bank)
providing a loan (Loan) for the above-captioned Project and the General Conditions
(General Conditions) made applicable to the Loan Agreement, I am writing on behalf of the
Member Country to set forth the following:
1.    We understand and a3ree that, for purposes of Section 6.01 of the General
Conditions, the Member Courtry is required by the Bank to report "long-term external
debt" (as defined in the World Bank's Debtor Reporting System Manual, dated January
2000 (DRSM)), in accordance with the DRSM, and in particular, to notify the Bank of new
"loan commitments" (as defined in the DRSM) not later than 30 days after the end of the
quarter during which the debt is incurred, and to notify the Bank of "transactions under
loans" (as defined in the DRSNI) once a year, not later than March 31 of the year following
the year covered by the report.
2. We represent that, exce )t as otherwise notified to the Bank, no Liens (as defined in
the General Conditions), other thal those excluded pursuant to paragraph (c) of Section
6.C2 of the General Conditions, exist on any Public Assets (as defined in the General
Conditions), as security for any External Debt (as defined in the General Conditions).
Except as otherwise notified to the Bank, no defaults exist in respect of any external public
debt (as defined in the DSRM). It i; our understanding that, in making the Loan, the Bank
-may rely on the representations set forth or referred to in this letter.


﻿-2-
3.     Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by having a duly authorized
representative of the Bank sign in 1he space provided below.
Very truly yours,
RZEPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
~L
By
Ovuthorized Representative
AGREED:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELPMENT
Authorized Repres tative


