Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17305-AR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$18 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A
POLLUTION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
January 21, 1998
Environmental, Rural and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 1997)
Currency Unit = Argentine peso
US$1.00 = Arg$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCSD         -      Business Council for Sustainable Development
CICACZ       -      Comite Interindustrial para la Conservaci6n del Ambiente
Campana Zarate, or the Inter-industrial Committee for Environmental
Conservation in Campana and Zarate
CP           -      Cleaner Production
EMS          -      Environmental Management Systems
FPN          -      Fundaci6n Patagonia Natural, a Non-Governmental Organization
INA          -      Instituto Nacional de Agua y Ambiente, or the National Water and Environment
Institute, under SRNyDS
ISO          -      International Standards Organization, Geneva, Switzerland
JIA          -      Joint Implementation Agreements
NGO          -      Non-Governmental Organizations
PEU          -      Project Execution Unit
SME          -      Small and Medium Enterprises
SRNyDS       -      Secretaria de Recursos Naturales y Desarrollo Sustentable, or the Natural
Resources and Sustainable Development Secretariat
TA           -      Technical Assistance
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director: Myrna Alexander
Sector Director: Maritta R. V. B. Koch-Weser
Task Team Leader: Fernando R. Manibog



Argentina
Pollution Management Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective .........................................................   2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ........................ ...................                          2
B. Strategic Context ..........................................................2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ..........................................................                        2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy . .........................................................2
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices  ...................                         ................... 3
C. Project Description Summary ..........................................................4
1. Project components ..........................................................4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .............................................5
3. Benefits and target population ......................................................... 6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ..........................................................6
D. Project Rationale ..........................................................8
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .....................................................8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ..................9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ....................................................9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .........................................................  10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .........................................................                            10
E.  Summary Project Analysis ......................................................... 11
1. Economic assessment .................11..                      ,,.......    1
2. Financial assessment and fiscal impact of recurrent costs .............................1............                                  1
3. Technical assessment .................12.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,.,.,,..............................,,,,..... 12
4. Institutional assessment .................                                                                                       12
5. Social assessment ..................... 12
6. Environmental assessment .....................                                                                                   12
7. Participatory approach ..................... 13
F. Sustainability and Risks .....................                                                                                    13
1. Sustainability ......................... 13
2. Critical risks ..................... 14
3. Possible controversial aspects .....................                                                                              14



G. Main Loan Conditions .......................                                      15
1. Effectiveness conditions .......................                                   15
2. Other .......................                                                     15
H. Readiness for Implementation .......................                              15
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .......................                             15
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Sumary .16
Annex 2.   Detailed Project Description .18
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs .23
Annex 4.  Financial Summary .24
Annex 5.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .25
Table A.           Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .26
Table Al.          Consultant Selection Arrangements .27
Table B.           Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .28
Table C.           Allocation of Loan Proceeds .29
Annex 6.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule .30
Annex 7.   Documents in the Project File.                                            3 1
Annex 8.   Statement of Loans and Credits .33
Annex 9.   Country at a Glance ............                                          37
Map



Argentina
Pollution Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Date: January 21, 1998                       Task Team Leader: Fernando R. Manibog
Country Director: Myrna Alexander            Sector Director: Maritta Koch-Weser
Project ID: AR-PE-6050    Sector: Environment Program Objective Category: EN
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan  Program of Targeted Intervention:   [ ] Yes [X] No
Project Financing Data     [X] Loan         [  Credit         [] Guarantee   [  Other
[Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$ni/SDRm): $18 million
Proposed terms:              []    Multicurrency       [X]  Single currency (US dollar)
Grace period (years): 5   [   Standard Variable   []   Fixed               [X]  LIBOR-
based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge:
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                           Local               Foreign         Total
Government                                           8.5                    3.4        11.9
Beneficiaries                                       6.1                     0.0         6.1
IBRD                                                2.5                    15.5        18.0
Total          17.1                    18.9        36.0
Borrower: Argentine Republic
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Secretariat of Natural Resources and Sustainable Development (SRNyDS)
Estimated disbursements        FY1998   FY1999    FY2000    FY2001   FY2002   FY2003
(Bank FY/US$M):
Annual       0.2      6.0         3.8         3.5       3.4        1.1
Cumulative      0.2       6.2        10.0       13.5       16.9       18.0
Implementation period: 5 years   Expected effectiveness date: May 15, 1998    Closing date: June 30, 2003



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The main objectives of the Argentina Pollution Management Project are: (i) to strengthen the institutional
capacity of the Natural Resources and Sustainable Development Secretariat (SRNyDS) of the Government of
Argentina (GOA) to pilot, demonstrate and coordinate the mainstreaming of innovative pollution management
instruments, through technical assistance and selected investment activities to address priority pollution problems,
and (ii) for the SRNyDS to internalize the lessons learned from the pilots and strengthen its capacity to replicate
the positive results. The key performance indicators are: (i) the degree of responsiveness of stakeholders to
environmental initiatives, services and facilitation provided by SRNyDS in fulfillment of its mandate to coordinate
environmental policy, to be measured by client surveys; (ii) the rate of private participation in the pilot programs
to promote environmental management systems (EMS) and ecoefficiency in small and medium industries (SMEs),
as measured by the take-up rate of the project's EMS training and cost-sharing grant scheme; and (iii) the extent
to which municipal capacities to manage "brown" contamination have been strengthened, in the pilot
municipalities and Gran Buenos Aires, as measured by a number of concrete examples of policy formulation or
investment decision processes in which integrated pollution management methodologies have been applied.
B: Strategic Context
. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project:
CAS document number: 16505-AR
Date of latest CAS discussion: CAS discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on May 15, 1997.
The project would support the CAS policy objective of sustainable environmental protection and management,
specifically the objective of improving performance and the institutional capacity of the Government to provide
key environmental services. To achieve this goal, the specific actions would be to support improvements in the
coordination of environmental management at the national and subnational levels, pilot integrated approaches to
reduce serious pollution problems, promote innovative partnerships between the public and private sectors, and
strengthen participatory and conflict resolution processes.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The World Bank sector study on pollution problems in Argentina (Managing Environmental Pollution: Issues and
Options, Report No. 14070-AR, October 16, 1995) ranked the key issues as groundwater contamination, air and
noise pollution, uncontrolled solid waste dumps, surface water contamination, weak institutions, and the virtual
absence of environmental monitoring information and analysis. Coverage of water supply and sanitation
infrastructure is one of the lowest in the region, resulting in very serious groundwater contamination. Localized
air pollution, uncontrolled solid waste dumps (which contain hazardous wastes), and surface water contaniination
from industrial effluents and untreated sewage, are also major areas of concern. The country's continued
environmental degradation is not being addressed adequately due to the lack cf comprehensive strategies,
fragmented federal and subnational policies, and weak monitoring and enforcement. Environmental institutions
remain weak and regulatory compliance has been largely non-existent. Responses to pollution issues have been
driven mainly by urgency, in cases where some emergency actions have been taken. In many cases, these
responses have been slow, deterred by the lack of analytical tools and technical knowledge to prioritize issues,
weigh the options, and develop least-cost action plans.
GOA has recognized recently that relying purely on a regulatory command-and-control system is not the most
cost-effective approach and does not take advantage of rapidly evolving global best practices in motivating
polluters to comply with environmental regulations. Consequently, GOA's strategy is to develop a culture of
industrial environmental compliance, by testing and demonstrating the viability of a complementary menu of
innovative pollution management instruments that are based on market incentives. In concrete terms, GOA's
strategy is to pilot and replicate experiences with environmental management systems (EMS) and ecoefficiency
programs among volunteering industry groups, whereby industry leaders are motivated to continuously promote,



3
lead and partly finance EMS programs internally and within their supplier chain of small and medium enterprises.
The outcome of GOA's strategy is to complement the strict enforcement approach (the "stick") with an innovative
set of non-regulatory instruments, which, while keeping within the regulatory framework, will offer to polluting
companies a menu of positive incentives (the "carrots"), driven by trade competitiveness concerns, the
demonstrated financial savings from implementing ecoefficiency measures, and other market considerations.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project would address the need for a complementary approach to the key sector issues of weak compliance
and enforcement, as well as the lack of coordination required for mainstreaming best practices in environmental
policy and management among other country's national and subnational agencies, and vis-a-vis the private sector.
The project would address these issues by piloting and demonstrating pollution management instruments that
promote ecoefficient responses by industry and rely more on public-private partnerships and market mechanisms.
The process of designing the project required several strategic choices, as explained below.
Given the lack of institutional capacity and high costs of relying solely on command-and-control systems for
environmental compliance, GOA's first strategic choice is to add to its enforcement arsenal the complementary
approach of promoting trade competitiveness and improved efficiencies of resource use as incentives for private
polluters to engage in continuous programs in environmental improvement. This approach is in addition to its
ongoing efforts to strengthen compliance via regulatory and legal means.
In designing this complementary approach, GOA's second strategic choice is to adopt a "bottom-up" instead of
"top-down" project design, in recognition of: (i) the responsibility of provincial governments to establish
regulations and standards; (ii) the authority vested upon municipalities to carry out monitoring and enforcement;
and (iii) the greater chances of project success by building upon already existing and emerging private initiatives
to improve industrial environmental behavior. This emphasis on starting from and responding to client demand
has resulted in an implementation framework that limits the federal-level interventions to agenda-setting,
information dissemination, stakeholder consultation, facilitation, and conflict resolution services. Implementation
would revolve around building public-private partnerships at the subnational level, specifically through:
(i) municipal pilots, since monitoring and enforcement are the weakest links in the chain of events leading to
environmental compliance; and (ii) industry pilots focused on highly selected small and medium enterprises
(SMEs) who are engaged in polluting activities, and who are volunteering to move toward compliance, possibly
led by environmentally advanced, larger firms which are in a supplier chain relationship with these SMEs.
Consequently, the municipalities of Campana, Zarate and Puerto Madryn have been selected mainly because of
the existence of committed industry, public sector and civil society groups (including effective non-governmental
organizations, NGOs) who are already pioneering pollution control and prevention programs, which therefore
increase the possibility of demonstrating successful pilots and replicating the lessons learned.
Finally, since provincial regulatory nonms and standards are well established and are not the real issue, GOA's
third strategic choice is to address the real constraints of lack of knowledge and technical capacity to diagnose
pollution and map out a program of responses, which would be supported by a cost-sharing grant program.
This strategy is based on intemational experience, including countries in Latin America, that the formal regulatory
system for environmental protection is complicated and enforcement is largely ineffective, hence compliance is
very poor. Consequently, a new approach to improve compliance includes the following: (i) to clarify and
simplify regulatory requirements (without compromising the objectives of the existing legislation) by developing a
consensus on what the regulations require; and (ii) to demonstrate the financial and commercial advantages of
better environmental management in industry (a major source of pollution), including SMEs (frequently the most
polluting), by building on the experiences of private firms that are leading innovations in these areas. Experience
in many parts of the world has shown that considerable environmental improvement can be achieved at little or no
net cost, if firms adopt changes in production systems to achieve more efficient use of input resources, and reduce
quantities and types of waste through cleaner production measures. The keys to success are to express the



4
regulatory requirements in clear and easily understood terms, including interim compliance targets, and link firm-
level environmental improvements to meet these requirements.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
The Pollution Management Project is a pilot lending operation to test and demonstrate the viability of promoting
regulatory compliance through a menu of innovative instruments, including public-private partnerships, to address
priority "brown" pollution problems in Argentina. The project includes one national and three municipal-level
components as explained briefly below; the detailed description of project activities and the replication plan for
the pilots is presented in Annex 2.
The national component includes the following three subcomponents: (i) studies, training and technical
assistance (TA) to SRNyDS to strengthen its capabilities to pilot and mainstream among other public and private
agencies the application of integrated approaches to pollution management; the studies would lead to workshops
to disseminate policy and develop action plans; one of the key studies is to identify measures to address
regulatory bottlenecks to private investments in facilities for hazardous wastes, a critical problem in Argentina;
(ii) a SRNyDS-coordinated training program to develop the technical capacity in Argentina for promoting
environmental management systems (EMS), ecoefficient practices and certification programs for industry; and
(iii) a SRNyDS-sponsored cost-sharing grant program targeted at SMEs to support, inter alia, environmental
diagnoses, emissions inventories and information disclosure, plant-level environmental audits, the implantation of
EMS and cleaner production practices (possibly leading to environmental certification), ecoefficiency programs,
and total cost accounting. The key objectives of the national component would be to: (i) catalyze the process of
building coalitions among public and private stakeholders; (ii) strengthen policy coordination and regulatory
clarification among national and subnational government agencies; and (iii) replicate the lessons learned from the
pilots in other areas of Argentina with serious pollution problems.
The three pilot components will provide TA and finance priority investments to test and demonstrate the
applicability of pollution management instruments in three different problem situations that have strong potential
for replicability elsewhere in Argentina, as follows: (i) urban and industrial contamination in the
municipalities of Campana and Zarate (Buenos Aires Province), where TA will be provided to strengthen
municipal environmental management, demonstrate participatory processes to address pollution in a local river
basin, and support industry-led initiatives to promote environmental improvements in SMEs that are in a supplier
chain with larger, export-oriented large industry leaders; (ii) air pollution in the Gran Buenos Aires area, which
would provide TA and finance investments for air quality and noise monitoring, a vehicle certification laboratory
and technical center, the preparation of an air quality management plan for Gran Buenos Aires, and the
strengthening of the vehicle inspection and maintenance program; and (iii) the strengthening of municipal
pollution management initially in the municipality of Puerto Madryn (Chubut Province), to be replicated in the
Patagonian region, which was chosen because it provides a strong information and institutional base for
replication, and where cross-media contamination is threatening tourism and the natural resource base, as well as
marine biodiversity.



5
Comionent                    Catezorv      Cost Inc.      % of    Bank-         % of
Contingencies   Total  financing    Bank-
(US$M)                (US$M)   financing
A. Public-Private Partnerships for        Institution-      17.5'       49%        10.0       56%
Pollution Management                      Building
and Policy
Strengthening of SRNyDS's Role in
Pollution Management
Environmental Management Systems
(EMS), Ecoefficient Practices and
Certification Programs for hldustiy
supported by a Cost-Sharing Grant
Program
B. Campana-ZArate: Integrated             Institution-       2.0         5%         1.6        9%
Management of Environmental Quality    Building
and Policy
Technical Assistance for Municipal
Environmental Management
Integrated Pollution Management for a Local
River Basin
Support for Industry-Led Initiatives in
Pollution Management
C. Gran Buenos Aires: Air Quality and   Institution-        15.1        42%        5.3        29%
Noise Management                          Building,
Physical
Air Quality and Noise Monitoring Network   Investments
Motor Vehicle Emission Laboratory and  and Policy
Certification Center
Gran Buenos Aires Air Quality Managemenit
Plan
Strengthening of Vehicle Inspection and
Maimtenance Program
D. Municipal & Regional Pollution         Institution-       1.4         4%        1.1         6%
Management                               Building
and Policy
Puerto Madryn Municipal Management
Component
Patagonian Coastal Zone Component
Total      36.0         100%        18.0       100%
lOf the US$17.5 million, US$12 niillion is the fiull cost of the Cost-Sharing Grant Program, which will be jointly financed by private beneficiaries
(USS6 niillion) and by the loan (US$6 million).
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key policy reform to be supported by the project is to bridge gaps in regulatory compliance by putting in
place, on a pilot basis, a system of positive, market-based incentives that would induce polluters to comply. This
would complement, but not substitute for, the evolving but still very weak enforcement framework in Argentina.
The regulatory framework, which is generally satisfactory in termns of its norms and standards, is being
strengffiened under other multi'aterally and bilaterally financed projects, notably the SRNyDS institutional
strengthening project financed by the Inter-American Development Bank. Given the continuing lack of
compliance, however, there is an urgent need to apply more rapid-response measures to develop positive
incentives for industry to comply with environmental regulations.



6
The project's key institutional reform is to move SRNyDS -- a national environmental agency -- toward the role
of a "learning institution" in a modem state, and to strengthen its effectiveness in the new functions which this
role calls for, as follows: (i) to manage knowledge and act as a dynamic catalyst for information exchange among
private partners and civil society stakeholders, disseminating information ranging from baseline environmental
diagnoses to experiences with non-regulatory instruments in other countries; (ii) to lead the process of bridging
gaps in regulatory compliance, through the promotion of private-public cooperative environmental programs
predicated on market incentives related to international commercial competitiveness and financial savings from
industrial processes and product improvements; (iii) to convoke and facilitate negotiated processes for
formulating national environmental policy, with the credible involvement of stakeholders including civil society
representatives; and (iv) to coordinate the mainstreaming of national environmental policy among other public
agencies at the national and subnational levels.
3. Benefits and target population:
The inmmediate target population of the project are polluting small and medium enterprises (SMEs) that are part of
industrial groupings, and weak public agencies in the participating municipalities. It is expected that the main
participants for the project's ecoefficiency activities and cost-sharing grant program will be SMEs in polluting
sectors, such as leather and tanning, food processing, machine parts and metallurgy, and petroleum. For the
private firms, the direct project benefits would be: (i) greater knowledge and understanding of ecoefficiency
measures, as well as improved capacity for applying better pollution control and prevention techniques; and (ii)
initial financial savings through the implementation of ecoefficient practices. An indirect private benefit would be
the potential increases in export competitiveness. For the public agencies, the main direct benefit would be the
experience that they will gain in establishing transparent and participatory processes for improving environmental
compliance using market-based, non-regulatory instruments. This, in turn, would greatly facilitate their task of
managing "brown" pollution problems and replicating the lessons learned elsewhere in Argentina, for which
SRNyDS has already developed a plan (see Annex 2). Although there may be actual environmental
improvements in some cases, the project's goal is to evolve a culture of industrial environmental compliance by
piloting instruments and incentives that lead to voluntary changes in policy and behavior at the enterprise level.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Coordination and Management
The Project would be executed by the Natural Resources and Sustainable Development Secretariat (SRNyDS),
through a Project Execution Unit (PEU) that has been implementing effectively the Japanese PHRD Project
Preparation Grant. The PEU will be responsible for procurement of civil works, goods, equipment and consulting
services, including the Gran Buenos Aires air quality management component. Given the expected increase in
work volume during project implementation, the SRNyDS PEU would be assisted by specialized consultants
financed under the project who would provide technical, procurement, and financial advisory services.
Financial Management
SRNyDS would maintain adequate financial management systems--including accounting, financial reporting, and
auditing systems--to ensure that they can provide the Bank accurate and timely information regarding project
resources and expenditures, in accordance with: (i) the Financial Accounting, Reporting, and Auditing Handbook
(Washington, D.C.: World Bank, 1995), and (ii) the Bank's Operational Policy (OP) and Best Practice (BP)
10.02, dated July 1996. Efforts are being made on a country basis to discuss with the Government the revised
Bank financial management standards to comply with OP and BP 10.02, dated August 1997. During
negotiations, the Bank received the Government's assurances to carry out an action plan, supported by training
and technical assistance, to strengthen the financial management systems for the project.
Project Implementation
For the national component, SRNyDS would sign joint implementation agreements (JIAs) with the other
national-level agencies and groups of private enterprises, with whom SRNyDS would be jointly carrying out the
project components through working group arrangements. As of the December 1997 project a,ppraisal, seven



7
private industry groups have signed up for the ecoefficiency programs under the national component. These JIAs
would define the objectives, work plan, roles, responsibilities and contributions of the stakeholders in the
respective working groups. The agencies with whom SRNyDS would be signing JIAs were consulted during
preparation and have indicated agreement with the project's objectives and implementation program. In some
cases, some JIAs may already exist, which SRNyDS will build upon; this is the case of the environmental
management systems (EMS) promotion program for which SRNyDS already has an agreement ("Acta-Acuerdo")
with the Argentine Business Council for Sustainable Development (BCSD). An international firm would provide
technical and implementation supervision services to the SRNyDS PEU, especially to ensure the effective transfer
of global knowledge and mainstreaming of best practices, as well as to facilitate the continuous effort at coalition-
building that this component will require.
Under the overall supervision of the SRNyDS PEU, the small EMS promotion cost-sharing grant program
within the national component will be administered independently through a management contract, following
specific eligibility criteria and an Operational Manual. SRNyDS would coordinate closely with the Industry
Secretariat and the Secretariat for Small and Medium Enterprises, to maximize synergies with their ongoing
programs. Much effort has been placed during preparation on building the coalition between the Environment and
Industry Secretariats, up to the Secretary level. The cost-sharing grant scheme would start upon completion of
the national component's training phase, which, following the approach of the "training of trainers" and
"certification of certifiers", would develop first the critical technical skills for delivering seirvices to the SME
clients of the cost-sharing grant scheme. These services could include studies on environmental requirements of
foreign export markets, carrying-out of environmental audits, plant-level training programs on cleaner production,
advice and assistance on environmental certification, and so forth.
For the Campana-Zarate and Puerto Madryn municipal environmental management components, SRNyDS
would sign JIAs with Work Groups that would include public, private and NGO representatives. SRNyDS would
be part of these Work Groups, where services and equipment to be procured would be agreed. The SRNyDS
PEU, however, will serve as the lead implementing agency and be responsible for carrying out procurement in line
with the Bank's procedures. During implementation, these Work Groups will carry out the activities of their
respective component, as they have done so during project preparation, with SRNyDS providing technical advice
and exercising functions related to information dissemination, coordination, facilitation, and conflict resolution.
For the Puerto Madryn component, it is expected that a strong and effective NGO -- the Fundaci6n Patagonia
Natural (FPN) -- would continue to be involved in project implementation. During preparation, FPN designed a
Participation Plan for the component and conducted an assessment of the environmental impacts of tourism in the
area. FPN has implemented successfully a GEF/UNDP Patagonia Coastal Zone Management Planning Project-
Phase I and is now starting Phase II.
With respect to the Gran Buenos Aires air and noise pollution component, a consultative air quality
commission would be established in order to develop anid coordinate the implementation of an air quality and
noise management plan for Gran Buenos Aires, as well as monitor and feed into the policy process the data
collection efforts and studies included in the component. As regards the motor vehicle laboratory and technical
center, it was agreed with SRNyDS during negotiations that, for the cntire duration of the project, SRNyDS will
own the air quality monitoring network and the motor vehicle testing and certification laboratory, which will be
established in the premises of, and operated by the National Water and Environment Institute (INA), a
decentralized agency of SRNvDS. It was furtlher agreed that the operational relationship between SRNyDS and
INA will be governed by a joint resolution between the Environment Secretary and the President of INA; this
resolution would contain the provisions for the use of future INA revenues to: (i) meet operation and maintenance
requirements, and (ii) finance teclmical studies for the air quality management plan.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation, and Project Adiustment
The project would be guided by annual reviews of results, on which basis the PEU and the Bank supervision
mission would identify specific measures to: (i) pursue more vigorously any new opportunities to enhance the role
of SRNyDS as a "learning environment institution"; (ii) address any areas of implementation weaknesses; and



8
(iii) accommodate changes in priorities in case some pollution problems worsen unexpectedly. These measures
for improvement would be reflected in the SRNyDS proposal for the forthcoming year's budget. The mid-term
review is scheduled for the end of the second year. It is expected that the PEU would involve two or three third-
party, independent evaluators from renowned academic institutions with strong ecoefficiency programs, NGOs,
international environmental agencies and similar external institutions. The indicators for the mid-term project
review are presented in the Project Implementation Plan, which will be reviewed with stakeholders during the
project launching. The SRNyDS PEU will be responsible for maintaining separate Project accounts, financial
management and reporting, monitoring and evaluation, and audits. The project will be implemented over a five-
year period.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The option of a large-scale intervention was considered initially. A national project, however, would have been
premature given the lack of experience and capacity in pollution management, the innovative nature of the non-
regulatory processes to move polluters toward compliance, and hence the need to learn first by testing,
demonstrating and later institutionally mainstreaming successful results. During the course of preparation,
various alternatives for financing private and municipal-level investments were also considered. The option of
establishing a funding mechanism as in the Municipal Development Project was considered, but was not pursued
to avoid duplication with this ongoing project and its extensive coordination framework for implementation.
Moreover, in the case of municipal investments, the municipalities still lack the technical capacity to avail
themselves of this facility, as demonstrated by the relatively low demand for the project's "environment" and
"'solid waste management" funding categories. Therefore, the project would pilot integrated pollution
management approaches in selected municipalities to strengthen their capacity to diagnose their contamination
problems in sound technical terms, weigh options and apply economic criteria to select a course of action, and
convert the results into a financially sustainable investment proposal, while ensuring adequate public participation
throughout this process. Finally, the option of establishing a credit line for industrial pollution control was also
rejected because the experience with credit lines in previous projects has been unsatisfactory, and the target
population of SMEs still lack the knowledge and experience to identify specific measures and take actions to
move toward regulatory compliance. Once the pilots are successfully demonstrated, one of the positive impacts
expected is that private firms would recognize the positive returns on environmental investments and seek or
provide financing on fully commercial terms.



9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or otlher development agencies:
Sector Issue                      Project              Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Industrial Pollution Control         Brazil-Environmental                S               S
Conservation and Rehabilitation
(CVRD) Project
Brazil-Sao Paulo Industrial        U               S
Pollution Control Project
Brazil-Industrial Pollution        S               S
Control II Project
Environmental Institutions Development   Chile-Environmental            HS               S
Institutions Development
(CONAMA) Project
Environmental Management Systems     Mexico-Guadalajara                 S                S
Environmental Management
Pilot Non-Lending Service
Environmental Management Technical   China-Environmental                S                S
Assistance                           Management Project
Export Development (including IS09000   Argentina-Export Development    S                S
certification component)             Project
Other development agencies
Environmental Institutions Development   IDB: Argentinia-Institutional
Strengthening Program for
Environmental Management
Cleaner Production                   GTZ: Argentina-
Environmental Protection in the
Small and Medium Industries of
the Argentina Chemical
Industry
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), tU (Unsatisfactory), HUJ (Highly UJnsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
With the exception of the Brazil-Environmental Conservation and Rehabilitation Project, there are no Bank
projects yet with a major focus on the promotion of environmental management systems in industry, hence the
proposed operation is a pioneering project. The projects listed above are related to the proposed project on the
basis of having some components related to industrial pollution control technical assistance and financing, the
building-up of partnerships, and the use of participatory techniques and negotiations processes. Drawing on the
experience from ongoing projects in the region's relatively young environment portfolio and previous economic
and sector work, the main applicable lessons are: (a) the coordination of environmental policies is weak among
Government agencies at various levels, as well as vis-a-vis the private sector, and needs to be strengthened
through coalition-building around key priorities in order to achieve better compliance with pollution control
regulations; (b) the weakness of environmental agencies can lead to significant delays unless the building of
adequate capacity is supported by the project; (c) public and private financing for environmental investments has
been successful in addressing problems only where a clear strategy and location-specific environmental targets
were defined for such problems; and (d) based on the experience with the ongoing Export Development Project,
some key ingredients to build up and sustain demand include early and effective dissemination of information on
innovative financing schemes, proactively supporting client access to the financing program, and maximizing the
demonstration impact of early successes. Taking these lessons into account, the project would emphasize building
linkages, strengthening negotiations capabilities and conflict resolution mechanisms, and clarifying the respective
roles of the federal, provincial and municipal stakeholders, while promoting the financing role of the private



10
sector. The project would also promote the application of economic cost-effectiveness, technical, financial,
institutional and other key criteria to develop options and select a solution in a participatory manner that reflects
community commitment and ownership. Finally, instead of prematurely launching an ambitious national
program, the project's pilot design was guided by the following conceptual parameters: (a) imprcve access to
information on global best practices, promote public disclosure of pollution data, and gain experience in building
coalitions around priority pollution problems in a specific geographic area; (b) test positive, market-based
incentives to motivate polluters to change company policy and operational behavior, and thus achieve
environmental improvements and move toward regulatory compliance; and (c) involve a few committed and
volunteering municipalities and private participants in order to enhance prospects for successrul implementation,
which could possibly lead to an adaptable program lending operation.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
During project preparation, SRNyDS at the highest levels of management supported the building of coalitions
around the project's pilot components, involving private, public and NGO representatives. Some examples are
provided below:
(i) During pre-appraisal, the CEO of one of Argentina's largest companies submitted a letter to the PEU of
SRNyDS to sign up for the project's environmental management systems (EMS) and ecoefficiency program. The
CEO nominated the Executive Director of the Argentine Business Council for Sustainable Development (BCSD)
and the company's Environment Director to be the private representatives in the Work Group that was formed for
the project's EMS program. In addition, the Inter-industrial Committee for Environmental Conservation in
Caampana and Zarate (CICACZ) and the Metallurgical Industries Chamber of C6rdoba have also submitted letters
to SRNyDS to sign up for the Project's EMS Program. By the appraisal mission, four other groups had also
submitted written expressions of interest to participate, including the Argentine Industrial Council, one of the
largest SME chambers; the Argentine Accreditation Organization, a national certification institute; the Business
Development Institute of the Province of Buenos Aires; and the Government of the City of Buenos Aires.
(ii) The Government attaches high priority to the project, judging from: (a) the Environment Secretary's public
endorsement of the pollution management sector report's findings; (b) SRNyDS' actions to accelerate the
processing of the Japan Grant Agreement, and to replace a slow counterpart team with a more proactive Project
Execution Unit, after which preparation made significant progress; and (c) SRNyDS' support for external
partnerships, such as the participation of United Nations Environment Program (UNEP) staff from its Industry
and Environment Department during project preparation to help define the project's Cleaner Production Program.
(iii) In November 1996, a Regional Entity for Canpana-Zarate component was created, reflecting a joint
agreement among the provincial and municipal stakeholders. A Campana-Zarate Work Group was also created,
and has been continuously functioning since early-1997.
(iv) For the municipal components, provincial ministries, municipalities and private industries are also strongly
interested in the project and continue to support it by taking actions required for processing. The Parlamento
Patag6nico has worked with the Bank's project team in field visits and will facilitate the application of the Pan-
American Health Organization's solid waste planning methodology in selected areas of the Patagonian region, in
order to prepare a regional solid waste management plan. In Puerto Madryn, a Work Group for the project is
being formed, comprised of the municipal Environment Secretary, the Fundaci6n Patagonia Natural (an NGO),
and the Centro Patagonico (a research laboratory providing technical support to the whole component).
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's single most important contribution is to be a catalyst and source of specialized advice drawn from a
global knowledge base in the areas of innovative pollution management instruments and the modernization of
public sector environmental agencies. For example, the project is designed to transfer knowledge and experiences
from external universities, foundations, research institutes and NGOs who are practitioners in EMS and
ecoefficiency programs. The Bank would also draw from its experiences in Brazil, Chile and Mexico where



11
industry has been responding positively to these measures. A second Bank contribution is to develop a policy
agenda and disseminate relevant new knowledge around a policy theme. For example, the project features a study
to identify and develop measures for addressing the weaknesses in the regulatory framework which impede private
investments in environmental equipment, infrastructure and services. In addition, the Bank's Economic
Development Institute (EDI) is developing a sustained training program to strengthen the regulatory and
enforcement capacities of SRNyDS and subnational participants. Finally, the Bank also has a high capacity to:
(a) coordinate and establish complementarities between provincial and municipal projects, and (b) maximize
synergies between the proposed project and the ongoing Export Development Project, which is supporting
IS09000 certification and is therefore developing a potential client base for environmental certification programs.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic Assessment:
The pilots in the project are not subjected to benefit-cost analysis because the outputs are related to institutional
strengthening. During project implementation, however, the project will promote the use of economic analysis
methods in the manuals and training programs, in order to ensure that the pilots lead the municipal participants to
use least-cost methodologies as they weigh environmental investment options and decide on specific solutions.
The data to be generated under the air quality component, in particular, will be used as inputs to the analysis of
cost-effective investment solutions that would be incorporated within the Gran Buenos Aires air quality and noise
management plan.
With respect to the 50% grant to private small and medium enterprises (SME) participating in the cost-sharing
grant program, the partial subsidy is justified on the basis of addressing market failures which inhibit firms from
taking actions that improve environmental performance. The negative externalities resulting from industrial
pollution are high, and an initial subsidy to a small set of screened firms participating in the pilots is required in
order to demonstrate the viability of positive, market-based incentives. Making information generally available is
insufficient to achieve this behavioral change, since the required policy decisions and investment actions are non-
traditional and have unclear reward-to-expenditure ratios, thus making the firms averse to innovation. Pro-active
technical assistance inputs are required, involving direct advisory services that diagnose the specific pollution
conditions generated by the firms and tailor the package of solutions to their individual operational requirements.
This process of diagnosing and designing innovative solutions would be supported by the cost-sharing grant
program, in which the partial subsidy component will be small with clear boundaries in time and amount, and
would be too small to generate economic distortions, for example, by realigning prices, distorting relative
competition, or reallocating resources. Ultimately, the objective of the program is to promote sustainability by
demonstrating that investing in technical assistance and pollution abatement are recouped by: (i) increased export
capability; (ii) improved market positioning and competitiveness; (iii) financial savings from efficiencies of
resource use; and/or (iv) future compliance with environmental regulations and hence avoidance of penalties and
negative public pressure.
2. Financial Assessment and Fiscal Impact of Recurrent Costs:
The project's claim on the Government's recurrent spending is expected to be small, given the project's strong
emphasis on mobilizing private financing for promoting environmental management in industry, and generating
revenues from private vehicle certification. The project's counterpart financing is estimated at US$18 million, of
which 34% or about US$6.1 million would be financed by the private beneficiaries of the Cost-Sharing Grant
Program for the promotion of environmental management systems, ecoefficient practices and certification
programs for industry. Of the remaining US$11.9 million, around US$9.3 million are related to the air quality
component's management plan and the investments in a motor vehicle emissions and certification laboratory,
which are expected to generate revenues from motor vehicle testing fees, thus ensuring the financial sustainability
of this investment component beyond the project life. The revenue stream from the motor vehicle testing will be
sufficient to cover the counterpart costs of operations and maintenance, teclnical assistance, and the amortization
of equipment under the Gran Buenos Aires Air Quality Management component. The remaining US$2.6 million



12
are the project's technical assistance, studies and institutional strengthening activities, as well as the local cost of
the project's civil works and goods and equipment, which represent a modest Governnent counterpart funding.
3. Technical Assessment:
The project has a significant technical component, since the target leading companies and SMEs that would
participate in the pilots and cost-sharing grant scheme are from polluting industries (e.g., leather and tanning, food
processing, petroleum, among others) that offer significant opportunities for technological improvements. The
project's EMS and ecoefficiency programs are designed to provide a high degree of technical knowledge drawn
from: (a) international expertise on more resource-efficient technologies; (b) best practices in cleaner production;
and (c) the role of leading technologies, production cost-efficiency, and total quality (including environmental
aspects) in enhancing global market competitiveness. The project's technical design responds to the urgent need
of Argentina to modernize the instruments that it employs to manage pollution. The project would help clarify
regulatory requirements and provide assistance to SMEs in developing a monitorable plan to achieve compliance.
This process is expected to lead to overall environmental management and performance improvements, including
the implementation of EMS, which may lead to international certification such as ISO 14000 standards.
4. Institutional Assessment:
The institutional framework for the environment in Argentina is weak yet highly complex, with overlapping and
sometimes conflicting jurisdictions between the national, provincial and municipal levels, thus often confusing the
issue of authority and accountability. A significant amount of institutional strengthening is required, which is
being supported by an IDB project. A positive trend, however, is the growing number of leading individuals
within SRNyDS who understand the policies and actions required to address environmental issues in Argentina.
The Project Execution Unit (PEU) within SRNyDS includes or has mobilized the involvement of these
environmental leaders. The PEU has proven highly effective during project preparation, particularly with respect
to the coordination and conflict resolution processes that are critical to a project of this type, which involves
private industry, nationaVsubnational levels of government, and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). The
PEU provides a strong, competent base for project implementation, but will need strong and consistent technical
support. The project's core substance.(i.e., private-public partnerships and modem instruments for pollution
management) is very innovative, not only in Argentina but in most countries as well, and hence the specialized
skills base is nascent and needs to be developed. Therefore, a major program of training and transfer of global
best practices is required from an international firm that would provide overall technical supervision and advisory
services, ensuring that the critical knowledge base is transferred to SRNyDS as a "learning institution".
5. Social Assessment:
Public awareness of environmental issues has come much stronger in Argentina and hence the pressure on private
polluters has increased in recent years. Although promoters of environmental causes and governmental or private
targets of criticism are still often polarized, there are increasing cases of efforts to address environmental
problems through participatory approaches. These examples, which the project will build upon, include: (a) the
joint efforts of the Fundaci6n Patagonia Natural, the municipality and private plants in Puerto Madryn; and (b)
the Working Group of CICACZ and municipal governments of Campana and Zarate. The air quality
management component will lay the basis for an iinovative participatory process (based on the successful
experience of the Bank-financed project that included the development of the Decontamination Plan for Santiago,
Chile) that would be piloted and applied to other project components (see Section 7 below). A Participation Plan
was prepared for the municipal and regional pollution management component (see Section 7 also).
6 EnvironmentalAssessment: Environmental Category[  A   [X] B   [ C
The project's TA components are expected to result in pollution prevention and control in the pilot industries
participating in the enviromnental management systems promotion and cost-sharing grant program. The
institutional strengthening of SRNyDS and the selected municipalities is expected to improve the diagnosis and
monitoring of environmental conditions. The pilot investments in the project (air pollution and other monitoring
equipment, and the vehicle emissions laboratory) are expected to result in environmental improvements. In the



13
interest of mainstreaming the environment, one of the proposed project's activities is to improve the environmental
assessment methodologies of the project preparation manuals under the Municipal Development II Project.
7. Participatory Approach:
Preparation     Implementation      Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups     CON                COL              COL
Intennediary NGOs                 CON/S               COL              COL
Academic institutions             CON/IS              COL              COL
Local government                  CON/IS              COL              COL
Other donors                       CON                COL              COL
Note: IS = Information Sharing, CON = Consultation, COL = Collaboration
For the air quality management component, quarterly reports on air and noise quality will be disseminated to the
public to serve as the basis for the development of a participatory air quality management plan, which could be
similar to the Santiago Decontamination Plan completed in June 1997 under the Bank-financed Chile-
Environmental Institutions Development Project. The participation processes for the Gran Buenos Aires air
quality management plan would be similarly designed, albeit on a smaller scale and less complex due to the lower
severity of air pollution in Gran Buenos Aires compared to Santiago. For the municipal and regional pollution
management component, a Participation Plan was prepared by the Fundaci6n Patagonia Natural. For the
Campana-Zarate Component, a participatory approach, including private stakeholders, has already started during
project preparation and will continue to demonstrate the use of integrated pollution management techniques in the
context of a local river basin.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project's sustainability depends on the likelihood of the pilots being successful, the institutions' abilities to
absorb and replicate the lessons, and the continuation of financing. A measure of sustainability would be the
continued demonstration and promotion of positive, market-based incentives to drive the replication of successes
from the pilots. This would be enhanced significantly by: (a) drawing upon the private sector's technical
expertise and mobilizing private counterpart financing, motivated by potential gains in trade competitiveness and
financial savings that would result from environmentally responsible corporate behavior; and (b) having a
replication plan that is being adjusted and developed as experiences start being gained from the pilots (see the end
of Annex 2 for the replication prospects identified by SRNyDS).
As regards public agencies, the project's sustainability would be ensured by the project's approach, which is to:
(i) strengthen the capacity of SRNyDS to diagnose Argentina's pollution problems, promote transparency and
public disclosure of emissions data, set the agenda of priority issues, catalyze the analysis of the technical,
economic and financial parameters, and coordinate the process of policy analysis; and (ii) devolve policy
formulation to other parts of government that should share responsibilities for Argentina's environment, such as
the energy, transport, municipal development, industry and economic agencies.
As regards the project's municipal components and investments, the integrated pollution management process is
designed to be a self-sustaining approach toward solving priority pollution problems in a participatory manner. It
provides stakeholders with a framework in which pollution problems are diagnosed properly and economic,
technical, financial, and institutional criteria are applied to determine options and select a least-cost and
financially-sustainable set of solutions.



14
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating         Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
SRNyDS' weak institutional capacity to: (a)  medium      This risk has been minimized by SRNyDS'
develop pollution management instruments that            effective Project Execution Unit, strong
are sustainable in the local context; (b) sustain        commitment to the project, much improved
the interest of multiple stakeholders; and (c)           relations with subnational governments as
harmonize regulations with subnational                   reflected in Joint Agreements, and its
governments                                              demonstrated intent to work with the
private sector as evidenced by: (i) the
Environment Secretary's existing
Agreement with the President of the
BCSD, and (ii) the intent to provide
regulatory streamlining for private firms
involved in pollution prevention and
control. SRNyDS has also signed an
agreement with the Buenos Aires Province
to harmonize hazardous wastes legislation.
Risks inherent in changing environmental   medium-high   The pilot approach of screening, testing
practices of the public and private sectors, given       and demonstrating innovative pollution
the complicated legal and institutional                  management instruments to address
frameworks, lack of knowledge and experience,            pollution problems while working to
and the often conflictive nature of the                  strengthen the capabilities of both the
environmental problems that need to be resolved          public and private sectors should minimize
this risk.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Poor credibility and prospect for enforcement   low      The project's design is based on positive
action, hence low private incentive to implement         incentives like trade competitiveness and
non-regulatory measures                                  financial savings from ecoefficiency
measures; private companies have already
signed up for the program even without
enforcement threat.
Overall Risk Rating medium-high   The project is designed as a pilot, since the
development of environmental institutions
is inherently risky.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The hazardous wastes issue is conflictive in Argentina and, although not part of the project except for a study on
addressing regulatory bottlenecks to private investments in hazardous waste treatment plants and waste
management in general, the issue may be grafted on to the project by different local interests. The study should
develop a solid methodology for participatory approaches and consultative processes, and prepare Participation
Plans for the identified priority sites.



15
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
Establishment of the Project Execution Unit by SRNyDS, with staffing, functions and responsibilities satisfactory
to the Bank.
2. Other:
Conditions of disbursement:
(a) completion and Bank approval of an Operational Manual for the cost-sharing grant; and
(b) establishment of an inter-jurisdictional consultative mechanism to which all official agencies with
responsibility for air quality management in Gran Buenos Aires are invited.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's technical assistance activities will be completed before loan
effectiveness and made ready for the start of project implementation.
[XI The Project Implementation Plan will be reviewed with stakeholders during project launching, particularly (i)
the training program related to environrnental management systems and (ii) the eligibility criteria of the Cost-
Sharing Grants Program.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader/Task Ma_ ger:
Fernando R. Manibog
Principal Environmental Specialist
LCSES
Sector Manager/Director:
Maritta Koch-Weser
Environmental, Rural and Socially Sustainable
Development Sector Unit
LCSES
Country Manager/Director:
Myrna Alexander
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Unit
LCC7C



16
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Argentina Pollution Management Project
Narrative Summary           Key Performance            Monitoring and Evaluation        Critical Assumptions
Indicators        .
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                  (Goal to Bank Mission)
Support GOA strategy of    - Integration of enviromnental  Clarification of respective roles,  - Critical assumption:
sustainable environmental  concerns into the mainline   responsibilities and commitments,  Continued priority for
protection and management    functions of sector ministries   through:                   these issues by GOA and
and other levels of        - .Toint Inter-Govermnental Policy  cooperation by the
government                  Statements                        subnational and private
- Increasing adoption by   - Working Groups and Agreements    stakeholders
industry of long-tenn       among stakeholders
pollution reduction strategies   - Private sector commitment through    - Risks: changes in
resource inputs and use of the    political appointments or
project's products and services   major macroeconomic
problems
Project Development                                                                       (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
- Critical assumvtion:
Successful demonstration and   - Adoption of improved  - Development of demand-driven     Progressively stronger
adoption of innovative     environmental management    private services for pollution     private industry and
pollution management       approaches by private sector,   management, such as training,  commumity demand for
instruments involving the  especially SIvEs             changes in corporate enviromnental    action on urban/ industrial
private sector             - Increased ability anid     policy that translate into budgets anid   pollution because of its
credibility (tlrough client  operational planis and procedures for   relation to trade and other
Strengthened capabilities of   response as measured by  environmental managemenit         commercial objectives, as
SRNyDS to disseminate and    stakeholder surveys) of   - Establisluhent of mechaniisms anid  well as local impacts
mainstream the lessons of  SRNyDS in leading and       niunber of partnerships, to be
success and to take the lead in  catalyzing the dialogue on  measured by the international finn  - Risk: unwillingness to
new initiatives            pollution policy with       providing technical supervision    pay the costs of pollution
subnational, private and NGO                                  control and prevention
stakeholders                                                  measures
Project Outputs:                                                                          (Outputs to Objective)
- Demonstrations and        - Development and credible    - Adoption by the private sector in the   - Critical assumption:
refinements of innovative   application of pollution   pilots (especially SMEs) of improved    Continued high level of
pollution management,       maniagement instnuments    environmenital management, to be   commitment of
involving private sector    - Institutionalizationi of  measured by audits and/or evaluation    stakeholders in public and
- Institutionalization of these   "lessons learned" from the    reports                   private sectors
new approaches through      pilots, and incorporation of    - Numllber anid effectiveness of
training programs           best practices             dissemination fora for case studies,  - Risk: inability to develop
- Improvement of SRNyDS     - Agreements on target     measured by stakeholder sLurveys   instruments and
capabilities to take the lead  pollution problems,     - Extent and quality of tecluiical,  approaches which are
on key issues and to involve    priorities, and action plans,   economic anid finanicial anialysis in the   sustainable in the local
other stakeholders         in partnerships with        pilot municipalities, judged from  context; lack of
- Improved technical        subniational, private, and  mnuber of investment decisions where  involvement of
capabilities in environmental   civil society implementation   these methodologies were applied  stakeholders
data collection and use     agents (in the pilot       - Development of fonnal working
(especially the acquisition and   munticipalities and selected    groups or other mechanism for key
monitoring of emissions data   industry groups in the  issues at national or local level
under the air quality       national component)        - Preparation of a number of broad-
component)                                             based planis to tackle priority problems
- Cooperative and stake-
holder-based approaches to
pollution management



17
Project Components       Inputs: (budget for each   Monitoring and          Critical Assumptions
___________________   component)  Evaluation      (Components to Outputs)
1. Partnerships for                               - training and workshops
Pollution Management                               on policy mainstreaminig
- clarification/agreements    * Stability and continuity
1.1 Strengthening of     Teclnical assistance, pilot  on regulatory issues anid    of key interlocutors and
SRNyDS's role in         projects, and cost-sharing    complianice agreements  cotunterpart staff
pollution management     grant: $17.5 million      - agreement on options to    * Continued and increased
1.2 Enviromnental                                 address hazardous waste    support from the private
management systems                                 issues                   sector
(EMS), ecoefficient                                - success of pilot projects
practices and certification                        - institutionalization of
programs for industry                             training materials and
lessonis
- demand for advice and
assistance
- disbursement of Cost-
Sharing CTrant
2. Campana-ZArate:                                 - analytical and data    * SRNyDS and
Integrated Management of                           maniagement capacity     municipalities cooperate
Environmental Oualitv                              - training undertaken    anld formalize
- completion of          implementation
2.1 Technical assistance  Tecluhical assistance and    enviroiunental diagnosis    agreements in a timely
for municipal            laboratory equipment to   - communications program   manner
environmental            participating             - baseline water quality
management               municipalities:           - agreement on water     * CICACZ continues to
2.2 Integrated pollution  $2.0 million             quality targets          promote actively
management for local river                         - feedback on advisory   participation of industry
basin                                              services
2.3 Support for industry-   (Does not include      - EMS pilot programn
led initiatives in pollution   substanitial inputs in kind    - follow-up to firns
management               from industry)            - other industry-led
activities
3. Gran Buenos Aires:                                                       * foniial agreements with
Air Quality Management    Teclmical assistance and    - air quality monitoring  other ministries anid
investment in monitoring    and data management    subnational govenuments
3.1 Establish scientific  stations and testing     - baseline data established  to prepare air quality
base and institutional   laboratory:               - emission laboratory    management plan
framework for urban air    $15.1 million           - progress on testing    * effective operation of air
quality management                                 - institutional framework    qutality data system
3.2 Air quality and noise   (Includes operation and                         * cost-effective operation
monitoring network       maintenance, and studies                           of emissions testing lab
3.3 Motor vehicle        to be financed by INA's                            * enforcement of
emissions laboratory and    revenues from vehicle                           requirements for vehicle
technical center         testing certification)                             testing
3.4 Strengthening of
vehicle inspection and
maintenance
4. Municioal & Regional                            - environmental diagnostic   * enviroumnental
Pollution Management                               for Puerto Madryn        diagnostics updated and
Techliical assistance and    - infonration system  maintained as useful tools
4.1 Puerto Madryn        monitoring equipment to    - involvement of        * skills developed at
municipal component      participating            stakeholders              mtuicipal level transferred
4.2 Patagonian coastal   municipalities:           - resolution of landfill  to other municipalities and
zone component.          $1.4 million              issues                   agencies
- diagnostic for coastal  * participatory planning
Patagonia                process successftully
- participatory process  replicated across the
region
TOTAL: $36 million



18
Annex 2
Argentina Pollution Management Project
PROJECT COMPONENTS AND ACTIVITIES
The main objectives of the Argentina Pollution Management Project are: (i) to strengthen the institutional capacity of
Government of Argentina's Natural Resources and Sustainable Development Secretariat (SRNyDS) to pilot, demonstrate
and coordinate the mainstreaming of innovative pollution management instruments, through technical assistance and
selected investment activities to address priority pollution problems, and (ii) for the SRNyDS to internalize the lessons
learned from the pilots and strengthen its capacity to replicate the positive results. The project components are: (A)
Public-Private Partnerships for Pollution Management (Strengthening SRNyDS's Role in Pollution Management;
Environmental Management Systems (EMS); Ecoefficient Practices; and Certification Programs for Industry); (B)
Campana-Zarate: Integrated Management of Environmental Quality (Technical Assistance/Investments for Municipal
Environmental Management; Integrated Pollution Management for Local River Basin; and Support for Industry-Led
Initiatives in Pollution Management); (C) Gran Buenos Aires: Air Quality Management (Air Quality and Noise
Monitoring Network; Motor Vehicle Emission Laboratory and Technical Center; and Institutional Framework for the
Preparation of an Integrated Air Quality Management Plan for Gran Buenos Aires); and (D) Municipal and Regional
Pollution Management (Puerto Madryn Municipal Management and Patagonian Coastal Zone Component).
A. PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS FOR POLLUTION MANAGEMENT
The main objectives of this component are to strengthen the capacity of SRNyDS to promote and coordinate the
development, testing and demonstration of innovative pollutioni management instruments with private stakeholders
through a series of pilots, as a complement to environmental regulation and enforcement. Building such public-private
sector partnerships will lead to improved, capabilities, in both government and industry, to effectively manage critical
pollution problems, while achieving measurable progress in selected areas. To achieve this goal, this subcomponent
consists of three main areas of activity:
Strenvothenin, SRNvDSs Role in Pollution Manafement
This subcomponent is focused on strengthening the policy-setting, planning and coordination capabilities of SRNyDS,
especially in working with private industry. It will seek to strengthen SRNyDS' capacity to: (i) identify and address
critical environmental priorities, and assume a leadership role in transferring these skills to provinces and municipalities;
(ii) lead, coordinate, and disseminate the application of innovative pollution management instruments; and
(iii) mainstream the environment with other national agencies.
Concept-to-Practice Studies: Selected by client demand, these studies will support the development of SRNyDS's
practical skills base to catalyze improvements in pollution management. These improvements include:
*  Clarify regulatory overlaps and the basis for use of iinovative pollution management instruments, including
compliance agreements
*  Identify regulatory barriers and options for private sector investment in waste management
* Replicate lessons learned from the pilots in other parts of Argentina
*  Strengthen environmental aspects of Project Preparation Guides for the Provincial and Municipal
Development II Projects
*  Formulate the Rio de la Plata/Frente Maritimo Integrated Pollution Management Strategy
Training: A training program will be developed that focuses on improving pollution management capabilities within
SRNyDS. It will include the following areas:
*  Training in regulatory enforcement and strengthening (to be provided by the World Bank's Economic
Development Institute)
* Workshops and training in policy implementation
* Development of public participation, conflict resolution and coalition-building capacity
* Seminars for judges on environmental issues



19
Overall Management of the Pollution Management Project: This activity will include the overall coordination and
supervision of the project by SRNyDS' Project Coordiniation Unit, as well as technical advisory services to supervise
project implementation while ensuring that international best practices are applied.
Cost-Sharing Grant Program for Promoting Environmental Management Systems (EMS). Ecoefficient Practices and
Certification Programs for Industry
With the support of a small grants program for SMEs on a 50% cost-sharing basis, the pilot activities under this
subcomponent will introduce and promote approaches that stress the benefits to industry of improved environmental
management and build on competitive and market forces. The cost-sharing scheme would support technical assistance,
advisory services, and other non-investment activities related to gaining knowledge and experience in the following main
areas: market assessments of environmental requirements in export trade, environmental audits and diagnoses,
Environmental Management Systems (EMS) possibly leading to certification (e.g., under ISO14000 standards), Cleaner
Production (CP) techniques, Ecoefficient Practices, and Total Cost Accounting. The cost-sharing grant scheme will be
administered through an external management contract, following specific eligibility criteria and an Operational Manual.
Each individual proposal would be less than US$175,000, of which a maximum of 50% may qualify as a grant. This
would be in the same range as the cost-shared grant scheme of the ongoing Export Development Project, which served as
a model for the processes, limits, contracting procedures, SME participants, and other operational aspects that would be
reflected in the proposed project's Operational Manual.
The core of this component is to start with a set of demonstration projects for the design and implementation of
environmental management systems in selected firms to be replicated elsewhere in Argentina. The demonstration
projects, each involving 10 to 15 firms (SMEs), will be based on a "learning by doing" approach, where systems and
techniques are implemented in the participating firms by the firms' own staff through stages of formal training. In order
to maximize replicability, each of these "pilot groups" would represent different organizational characteristics. For
example, some pilot groups would belong to SME chambers of commerce, or business development agencies, or volunteer
independently as a group. Other pilot groups would be part of the supplier chain for larger industries who already have a
corporate environmental policy and who would lead the pilot program. These large firms, who would not be beneficiaries
of the grant scheme, would contribute financial or in-kind resources, as well as services. In order to maximize the
ultimate economic benefit of environmental improvements when the programs are replicated elsewhere, the pilot groups
will be selected from highly polluting industrial activities, such as leather and tanning, food processing, metal and
machine parts, petroleum and other industries generating significant amotnts of waste and effluents.
In addition, the following technical assistance will be provided:
*  Development and promotion of EMS and environiental certification programs by SRNyDS, in collaboration
with the Industry Secretariat and the Secretariat for Small and Medium Industries
e  Institutionalization of EMS and lessons learned from the pilots by: (i) strengthening curricula of technical
institutes to support EMS; (ii) building and sustaining a cleaner production network; and (iii) establishing
international partnerships with universities and/or research institutes
*  Provision of advisory services to promote sector-specific pollution prevention techniques in industries, such
as leather/tanning, food processing, tourism and/or petroleum induistries, possibly including Cleaner
Production centers where justified.
B. CAMPANA-ZARATE: INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL
QUALITY
The purpose of this component is to demonstrate models of cooperation between public and private stakeholders for
addressing urban aind industrial contamination oni the municipal level, in the municipalities of Campana and ZArate. It
will be considered the first pilot under the Partnerships for Pollution Management component (as described above in
component A) and is composed of the following three subcomnponents:
Technical Assistance/lInvestments for Municipal Environmental Management
The objective of this subcomnponent is to improve the capacity of local institutions to address pollution by strengthening
environmental quality monitoring, information maanagement, regulatory enforcemenit, and communication/negotiation
skills. The subcomponent will finance the following:
* Completion, dissemination and regular updating of environmental diagnoses
* Design and implementation of communications and outreach strategy
*  Execution of technical studies and implementation of their recommendations



20
*  Design and implementation of training program for municipal staff
*  Civil works, goods and services for upgrading laboratory facilities
Inter-ated Pollution Manaeement for Local River Basin
This subcomponent will demonstrate integrated pollution management in the context of a local river basin (the system is
composed of the three arroyos of Pesqueria, de la Cruz, and Portrero) through a participatory process involving the
primary polluters. This subcomnponent will finamce the following:
Technical Assistance:
*  Water quality baseline study, monitoring, and modeling to assess the current environmental conditions of the
basin and define alternative water quality improvements scenarios
*  Provision of a professional facilitator (support to local and provincial governments to formalize pollution
load reduction targets and compliance schedules with private stakeholders, and to monitor compliance)
*  Advisory services for evaluation and follow-up
Support for Industry-Led Initiatives in Pollution Management
This subcomponent intends to develop skills and draw lessons from a model of industrial pollution management and
transfer such skills to small firms in the supply chain. The project will provide the leverage to promote environmental
improvements through industrial initiatives on a collective basis. This subcomponent will finance the following:
Technical Assistance:
*  Provision of a professional services for pilot evaluation
-  Comprehensive training program on EMS and assistance to SMEs in EMS implementation
-  Advisory services, to help design and implement other industry-led activities, such as a program to promote
waste minimization in the region, and improvements in port maintenance
C. GRAN BUENOS AIRES: AIR QUALITY MANAGEMENT
This component is designed to establish the technical base and institutional framework for urban air quality management
in the Gran Buenos Aires region and to lay the foundation for the teclnical infrastructure needed for the development of
effective regulation of sources of air emissions in Gran Buenos Aires.
Air Quality and Noise Monitoring Network
T'his subcomponent would complement the noise monitoring network for the City of Buenos Aires, to be financed under
the Buenos Aires Urban Transport Project, by providing a limited number of new air quality monitoring stations and
equipment in the greater metropolitan area. It would provide data on the levels and distribution of air and noise pollution
in the urban periphery, including Avellaneda and Quilmes which are affected by significant levels of air pollution.
Motor Vehicle Emission Laboratory and Certification Center
This subcomponent would finance the establishment of a motor vehicle emissions and testing laboratory and an associated
technical center to be formed witlhin the Instituto Nacional del Agua y Ambiente (INA), through modification of the
existing building and acquisition and operation of modem equipment. The laboratory would check and confirm
compliance with emission standards for new vehicles manufactured in Argentina; sample and measure emissions from
vehicles in use to improve emissions factor estimates and to monitor the effectiveness of emission control programs. The
associated technical center would carry out research and regulatory development on mobile source emission issues, and
would serve as a technical resource for SRNyDS in developing emission control policies and air quality and noise
management plans.
Institutional Framework for the Preparation of an Integrated Air Oualitv Management Plan for Gran Buenos Aires
This institutional strengthening technical assistance will focus on developing and implementing the institutional
framework that is a prerequisite to preparing a comprehensive air quality management plan for Gran Buenos Aires. This
subcomponent includes special studies in support of vehicle emission control and air quality and noise management
programs.
Strengthenine of Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance (IIM)
This subcomponent will provide: (i) technical assistance to review existing l/M programs anid develop recommendations;
and (ii) equipment for I/M oversight and on-road emissions enforcement.



21
D. MUNICIPAL and REGIONAL POLLUTION MANAGEMENT
This component will test and demonstrate innovative pollution management instruments on the municipal level, initially
in the municipality of Puerto Madryn (Chubut Province), to be replicated in the Patagonia region, where cross-media
pollution is threatening the natural resource base, marine biodiversity, and tourism. This component is associated with a
proposed GEF Project for Coastal Contamination Prevention and Sustainable Fisheries Management.
Puerto Madrvn Municipal Management Component
This subcomponent will provide the following studies and technical assistance to strengthen the pollution management
capabilities and address the solid waste priority problem of the Municipality of Puerto Madryn.
Studies and TechnicalAssistance:
* Preparation of a integrated environmental diagnosis of the miunicipality (including air quality monitoring
data)
* Pilot program to train tourism operators on pollution prevention practices
Provision of training to municipal officials (e.g., strengthening environmental enforcement)
* Provision of training to municipal staff (e.g., strengthening environmental monitoring and technical
capacity)
* Wastewater management studies
* Preparation of study on containment and closing old urban solid waste site
* Establishment of an Environmental Information Network
* Environmental education program
Investments:
Information systems and monitoring equipment
* Containment and closure of solid waste site
Pataeonian Coastal Zone Component
This subcomponent will provide the following technical assistance with respect to improving pollution management in the
coastal zone of Patagonia:
Technical Assistance:
*  Carry out environmental diagnoses, including environmental monitoring and testing, with a focus on marine
pollution issues in selected coastal areas
*  Identify priority investment options, particularly with respect to solid waste and land-based contamination,
and their environmental impacts
*  Promote regional approaches to pollution management, iniclutdinig participatory processes
REPLICATION PLAN
This section provides information on the concrete prospects for scaling-up the pilots described above. This replication
plan is not financed from the project.
The national component and the Campana-Zarate component will start with a pilot involving a large industry
and small/medium enterprises (SME) supplier chain located in the Campana and Zarate municipalities, which
already has an organized and proactive environmental grouping in industry (the Inter-industrial Committee for
Environmental Conservation in Campana and Zarate, or CICACZ) with an interest in EMS programs, possibly
leading to ISO14001 certification. This pilot could be replicated in many congested and contaminated
urban/industrial areas in the Greater Buenos Aires area and possibly neighboring provinces (Santa Fe, C6rdoba),
by leveraging the private initiatives of CICACZ members, the Business Council for Sustainable Development, the
Argentine Industrial Council, the Buenos Aires Province's Institute for Enterprise Development, and others. The
Bank would also draw upon work already being done in Guadalajara, Mexico, and under the Conservation and
Rehabilitation Project in Brazil with the Companhia Vale do Rio Doce, which is a major effort by one of Brazil's
largest companies to obtain ISO 14000 certification throughout its operations.



22
For the air pollution component, the prior sector work indicates C6rdoba, Mendoza, Santa Fe and others as the
pext group of cities with air pollution problems, where the airshed quality management approach (which considers
policy and strategy aspects and not just pollution control technologies) could be replicated. Innovative
participatory approaches for developing the Gran Buenos Aires Air Quality Management Plan will be piloted,
from which lessons will be applied to other, perhaps more difficult, situations.
For the municipal and regional pollution management component, the integrated pollution management
approach could be replicated in the group of Patagonian coastal municipalities with similar problems as Puerto
Madryn; the group of Andean municipalities equally dependent on tourism but impacted by pollution problems
from solid wastes and liquid effluents discharged into lakes and possibly affecting groundwater; numerous
municipalities in the provinces of Neuquen, Rio Negro and Mendoza affected by petroleum contamination; the
municipalities directly impacted by water pollution from the sugar industry which is discharging liquid and solid
wastes directly into the Rio Sali-Dulce; and so forth. The ongoing Provincial and Municipal Development
Projects both have "Environmental Projects" and "Solid Waste Management Projects" as eligible categories for
funding under these two operations.



23
Annex 3
Argentina Pollution Management Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                                    Local  Foreign   Total
----------- US$ million ---
A. Public-Private Partnerships for Pollution Management1                  8.2        8.8     17.0
Strengthening of SRNyDS's Role in Pollution Management
Environmental Management Systems (EMS), Ecoefficient Practices
and Certification Programs for Industry, supported by Cost-Sharing
Grant Program
B. Campana-ZArate: Integrated Management of Environmental Quality         1.1       0.7       1.8
Technical Assistance for Municipal Environmental Management
Integrated Pollution Management for Local River Basin
Support for Industry-Led Initiatives in Pollution Management
C. Gran Buenos Aires: Air Quality Management2                             6.9       7.7      14.6
Air Quality and Noise Monitoring Network
Motor Vehicle Emissions Laboratory and Certification Center
Gran Buenos Aires Air Quality Management Plan
Strengthening of Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program
D. Municipal and Regional Pollution Management                            0.3        0.9      1.2
Puerto Madryn Municipal Management Component
Patagonian Coastal Zone Component
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                                                     16.5       18.1     34.6
Physical Contingencies                                                 0.3        0.4      0.7
Price Contingencies                                                    0.3        0.4      0.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                       17.1       18.9     36.0
1 Of US$8.2 million in local costs, US$6 million is the local cost of Cost-Sharing Grants to be financed by private
beneficiaries.
2 Of US$ 14.6 million total cost, approximately US$9.3 million is the cost of operation and maintenance, technical
assistance and studies to be financed from the revenues of INA.



24
Annex 4
Argentina Pollution Management Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(US$, 1998 base year)
Implementation Period
1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Project Costs
Investment Costs                0.2      8.0      5.5      6.5     7.2      2.0
Recurrent Costs                 0.1      0.6      1.1      1.3      1.6      1.9
Total                        0.3      8.6      6.6      7.8      8.8     3.9
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IBRD/IDA                       67%      70%      58%     45%      39%      28%
Government                     33%      28%     32%      29%      31%      53%
Beneficiaries                            2%      10%     26%      30%      19%
Total                      100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%



25
Annex 5
Argentina Pollution Management Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Table A)
Consultant Selection Arrangements (Table Al)
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review (Table B)
Disbursement
Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Table C)



26
Annex 5, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                    Procurement Method                Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB       NCB       Othera     N.B.F
1. Works                                    0.9        0.1                      1.0
(0.0)      (0.0)                    (0.0)
2. GoodsandEquipment              5.2       0.8        0.2                       6.2
(4.8)    (0.6)       (0.0)                    (5.4)
3. Consultants' Servicesb                             10.1                      10.1
(6.6)                    (6.6)
Cost-Sharing Grant                                 12.1                      12.1
(6.0)                    (6.0)
4. Miscellaneous
Workshops'                                                      0.5           0.5
Operating CostSd                                               6.1           6.1
Total                          5.2        1.7      22.5         6.6         36.0
(4.8)    (0.6)     (12.6)                    (18.0)
Note:  ICB = International Competitive Bidding
NCB = National Competitive Bidding
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amnounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
a Includes three quotations for civil works, shopping for goods and equipmenit. and consultant services.
b Services should be procured in accordance with World Bank, Guidelines: Selection and Employment ofJ('onsultants by
World Bank Borrowers (Washinlgtoni, D.C., Januiary 1997. Revised September 1997).
c Includes expenses incurred by Project Executioni Unit.
d Includes Project Execution Unit's managemiient of the Pollultion) Managemenit Project and operating costs and
maintenance of investments under the Air Quality Maniagemiient component.



27
Annex 5, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(.n US$nmillion equivalent)
Selection Method                      Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                           (including
Expenditure Category                                                         contingencies)
QCBS   QBS   SFB   LCS    CQ          Other   N .B .F.______
A. Firms                      7.5                  0.8      0.6               8.9
(4.3)                (0.8)    (0.6)             (5.7)
B. Individuals                                     1.2                        1.2
(0.9)                     (0.9)
Total         7.5                   2.0      0.6              10.1
(4.3)                 (1.7)   (0.6)             (6.6)
Note:  QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ  = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultant Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



28
Annex 5, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure           Contract Value          Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category             (Threshold)               Method              Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior Review
US $ thousands                                 US $ millions
1. Works
<1,000                 NCB                   First two
<350             Three quotations             None
2. Goods
>350                ICB/NCB                     All
100 to 350        ICB/NCB             First two contracts
<100                Shopping                  None
3. Services
Firms                        >100                 QBS/CQ                      All
<100                QBS/CQ            Review of TORs only
Individuals                   >50                CQ/Other                     All
<50                  CQ              Review of TORs only
Procurement of works, goods and services, as well as contracting of consultants with Bank funds, would be
carried out in accordance with Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits (January 1995,
revised September 1997) and the Guideliies for the Use of Consultanits (January 1997, revised September
1997). Procurement would be carried out at the central level by the Project Execution Unit.
The Project Execution Unit will include a procurement officer whose main responsibility will be to prepare and
to: (a) submit to the Bank all procurement documents which will require Bank's prior review; (b) carry out
any procurement at the central level; (c) coordinate and monitor any procurement carried out by each executing
unit; and (d) prepare and submit to the Bank at the beginning of each calendar year a detailed procurement
schedule. The appointment of the procurement officer will be done in consultation with the Bank.
Civil Works. The project would finance civil works for: (i) new laboratory facilities under the Campana-
Zarate Municipal Environmental Management component; (ii) air quality monitoring facilities and
modifications of existing plant under the Gran Buenos Aires Air Quality Management component; and (iii)
monitoring equipment and closure of a solid waste site under the Municipal and Regional Pollution
Management component. It is estimated that about US$1.0 million of the project's costs would be allocated to
civil works.
Goods. The project would finance goods and equipment for: (i) new laboratory facilities in Campana-ZArate;
(ii) an air quality monitoring network, a motor vehicle emissions laboratory, and strengthening of a vehicle
inspection and maintenance program; and (iii) environmental monitoring and testing facilities in Puerto
Madryn. It is estimated that about US$6.2 million of the project's costs would be allocated to goods and
equipment.
Consultant Services. The project would finance consulting services, including training and studies (about
US$10. 1 million) and the cost-sharing grant programs (about US$12.1 million), for a total estimated US$22.2
million.



29
Annex 5, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                   Amount in         Financing
US$million       Percentage
1. Partnerships for Pollution Management
a. Consultants' Services                                4.0            100%
b. Cost-Sharing Grant Scheme                            6.0             50% of
amounts
disbursed
2. Campana-Zarate: Integrated Management of
Enviromnental Quality
a. Goods and Equipment                                  0.2            100% (net
of taxes)
b. Consultants' Services                                 1.4           100%
3. Gran Buenos Aires: Air Quality Management
a. Goods and Equipment                                  4.8            100% (net
of taxes)
b. Consultants' Services                                0.5            100%
4. Municipal and Regional Pollution Management
a. Goods and Equipment                                  0.4            100% (net
of taxes)
b. Consultants' Services                                0.7            100%
Total       18.0



30
Annex 6
Argentina Pollution Management Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage,
reviewed Feb. 1997)
Staff time, travel, consultants                  US$132            US$127 (to date)
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       9 months             9 months
First Bank mission (identification)              06/1996               06/1996
Appraisal mission departure                      09/1997              11/30/1997
Negotiations                                     02/1998              12/17/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   05/19/1998          05/1998 (est.)
Prepared by: Secretariat of Natural Resources and Sustainable Development (SRNyDS)
Preparation assistance: Japanese PHRD Grant TF029189; Second Japanese PHRD Grant
TF027062
Bank staff who worked on the project included: Fernando Maunibog (Team Leader, Principal
Environmental Specialist), David Hanrahani (Senior Environmental Specialist), Laura Tlaiye
(Environmental Specialist), Joachim von Amsberg (Environmental Economist), Michelle Keene
(Environmental Specialist), Angela Annstrong (Operations Assistanit), Renan Poveda (Consultant),
Rocio Sarmiento (Staff Assistant), Ditas Ledesma (Staff Assistant)



31
Annex 7
Argentina Pollution Management Project
Documents in the Project File
Ahmed, Kulsum. 1997. Guadalajara Environmental Management Pilot Non-Lending Service (Concept
Paper, Mission Back-to-Office Reports, and other Memoranda). Washington D.C.: The World
Bank.
Casa de la Paz; Participa; Practica, NGO's. 1995. Manualfor Public Participation in the
Environmental Impact Evaluation Process. Santiago, Chile.
Clichevsky, Nora; Pirez, Pedro. 1993. Garbage in the C.ity of Buenos Aires - Research Proposal.
Buenos Aires: Center for Social and Environmental Studies.
Interindustrial Committee for the Environmental Conservation of Campana and Zarate-CICACZ. 1996,
Program of Environmental Improvementfor the Campana-Zdrate Region, Proposal of Activities.
Campana, Argentina: CICACZ.
Dixon, John; Kunte, Arundhati; Pagiola, Stefano. 1996. Environmental Performance Indicators, A
First Edition Note. Washington D.C.: Environment Department, The World Bank.
Engine, Fuel, and Emissions Engineering Incorporated. 1997. Preparation of the Air Quality
Component of the Argentina Pollution Management Project: Inception Report (June 2); Task 2
Report - Emission Inventory and Preliminary List of Control Measures (August 2); and Summary
of the Air Quality Component (December 17). Sacramento, California.
Fundaci6n Patagonia Natural. 1997. Preliminary Diagnosis of the Environmental Impact of Tourism
Activities in Puerto Madryn, Chubut, for the Argentina - Pollujtion Management Project. Puerto
Madryn, Argentina.
Fundaci6n Patagonia Natural. 1997. Final Report - Participation Plan for the Argentina- Pollution
Management Project. Puerto Madryn, Argentina.
Gidhagen, Lars. 1997. The Air Quality Situation in Gran Buenos Aires (first report) and Campana
and Zcrate (second report), Argentina - A Diagnostic Study Including Recommendations on
Future Air Quality Monitoring. Final Report for the Pollution Management Project. Stockholm:
Swedish Meteorological and Hydrological Institute.
National Commission of the Environment (CONAMA) - Metropolitan Region. 1997. Santiago Cleans
the Air of Santiago: Annex Document to the Plan preparedfor the Participatory Process for the
- Decontamination Plan of Santiago. (With the collaboration of the Government of the
Metropolitan Region). Santiago, Chile: CONAMA.
Pirez, Pedro; Gamallo, Gustavo. 1994. Private Garbage, Public Service - Waste in Two Argentineant
Cities. Buenos Aires: The Foundation of Science and Man, Editorial Center for Latin America.



32
Rovere, Marta Brunilda. 1997. Environment and Puiblic Health: (Compilation qf C(ommented Case
Law. Buenos Aires: Interdisciplinary Center for Studies on Latin American Development. Konrad
Adenauer Center.
Sabsay, Daniel Alberto; Tarak, Pedro. 1995. (Community Participation and Environmental
Management: Public Audits and Local Government. Buenos Aires: Environment and Natural
Resources Foundation, FARN.
Wells, Richard. 1997. Reportfrom Argentina Trip (including information on: Objectives and
Structure for a Supply Chain Environmental Management Systems (EAM) Training (Course;
TeachingMaterialsfor the EMS Training Course; The Relationship between FMSand Cleaner
Production; and Human Infrastructure Needs to Implement Government/Industry Environmental
Partnerships). Lexington, Massachusetts: The Lexington Group.
The World Bank. 1995. Argentina - Managing Environmental Pollution: Issues and Options, Volumes
I and II. Environment, Rural and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit, Latin America
and the Caribbean Region, Washington D.C.
The World Bank. 1997. Pollution Prevention and Abatement Handbook, Parts I, II, and III.
Washington D.C.
* Developing a (7ulture of Industrial Environmental Compliance;
* Pollutant Release and Transfer Registers;
*  Implementing (leaner Production; and
* Environmental Management Systems and ISO 14000.



33
Annex 8
Argentina Pollution Management Project
A. Statement of IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in Argentina (as of December 10,1997)
Difference Between
Original Amount in USS Millions             enxpectead
ad actual
Loan or       Fiscal                                                                                                                      disbursements al
Project ID       Credit         Year                         Borrower                         Purpose           IBRD      IDA   Cancellat  Undisbur
No.                                                                                                               ions        sed
Number of Closed Lcans.credits: 53
Active Loans
A.R-PE-596L       IBRD 28540         1987    SEGBA                                        SEGBA V                  276.00    0.00          0.00     67.07                    67.06
AR-PE-6D'D9       IBRD 32970         1991    GO-VT OF ARGENTINA   INA                     AG SERVCES&INST DEV       33.50    0.00          0.00      3.31                     2.39
AR-PE-597         IBRD 3281:         1991    ARGENTINE REPUBLIC                          *eTR SUPPLY II            100.00    0.00          0.00     64.84                    62.58
AP-PE-5D?5        IERD 328DD         1991    REPUBLIC DF ARGENTINA                        PRDVIIJC DEV PROJ        200.0;     0.00         3.3?     4?.03                    40.01
AR-PE-6D34        IBRD 34603         1992    -GOVERNME NT                                 TAX ADI-IN II             20.00    0.00          0.00      1.82                     1.27
AR-PE-5613        IBPD 36110         1993    G_vT OF ARGENTINA   INA                      RD MAINT & REHAB         340.01    0.00          0.00    139.49                   114.22
SCT
AR-PE-6DS1        IBRD 3521:         1993    ARGENTINA                                    FLOOD                    170.00    0.00          0.00      3.18                     3.79
REHABI LITATIOIJ
AP-PE-6D36        IBPD 3520:         1993    GOVERNMENT                                   YACYRETA II              300.00    0.00          0.00      3.28                     3.27
AR-PE-6D62        IBPD 37110         1994    MIN DF ECOND-Nr                              CAPITAL MKT TA              8.50    0.00         0.00      4.53                     4.16
AR-PE-6 25        IBR9  3643D        1994     GOVT OF ARGENTINA   IIIA                    IITNAL CHILD HLTH &      100.00     0.00         0.00     40.07                    22.69
N
AR-PE-6`1S        IED  3877D         1995    ARGENTINE REPUBLIC                           PROV DEVT II             225.00    0.00          0.Q0    210.79                    16.78
AF-PE-696D       0IBr 386D:          1995    G,VT DF ARGENTINA                           lIUNIC DEVT II            210.00    0.00           .?00    197.30                   -1.87
AR-PE-5992        I9RD 37940         1995    GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA                      SECONDARY ED I           159.?0C,                0.00   ?.  165.80                114.24
AR-PE-4568        IBRD 4D:4D         1996    REP. OF ARGRNTINA                            H.INSURPACE TA            25.00     0.00         0.00     13.83                      .02
AR-PE-4D9`9       IBR0 40:30         1996    REP. OF ARGEtNTINA                           H. INSURANCE REFORII    100.00    0.?0           0.00    100.00                    33.33
..R-PE-65 D 5 IB     0 3971:         2       996 S ZVT OF ARGENTINA                       SECONDARY ED 2           115.50    r.??          0.00    112.50                    32.6?
AR-PE-3883        IEF9. 396:D        1996    REPUBLIC DF ARGENTINA                        ENT.EXPORT DV.            38.50    3.30          0.33     32.93                    26.57
AP-PE- 3 D49      IBR  3958D         1996    GOrVT OF ARGENTINA                           PUB.INV.STRENGTH          16.00     0.00         0.00     15.50                     5.90
AR-PE-5495        IERD 3957:         1996    SEC.DF SOC.DE:.eT 2FFICE                     SCCIAL PROTECTION        152.00    0.00          0.00     13.05                     7.66
AR-PE-6D4        0IBR  3948:         1996    9OVERNI4ENT                                  FORESTRY'DV                16.00    0.00         0.00     14.82                      .82
AR-PE-6D3        2IBR  3931:         1996    REPUB OF ARGENTINA                           PROVCL HLTH SCTR         101.4'    0.00          0.00     94.38                    28.29
DEV
AP-PE-6`55        IBR0 3927:         1996     GOVT. DF ARGENTINA                          IINING SCTR DEVT          31.?:    0.00          3.00     17.00                    -1.30
AR-PE-40 94       IBRD 3926:         1996    REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA                        BAINK REFORII             5??.0     0.00         3.00    166.0:                   166.0
AR-PE-34D91       IB9R  3921:        1996    REP DF ARGENTINA                             HIGHER ED REFOPI         165.9:    0.00         D.00    147.35                    68.18
AR-PE-49268       IBRD 41951         199      ARGENTINE REPUBLIC                          S_C.PROTECT.2            200.00     0 0.0D.39    175.00                             8.34
AR-PE-43418       IBRD 4168:         1997    REPUBLIC OF ARG                              AIDS PREJ.&STD CTRL        15.10,    0.00 C.               15.0?o i                 1.75
AR-PE-6359        IBRD 4164:         1997    ARENTINE REPUBLIC                           lITL.CHD.HTH.2            10.39       0.00        J.33    103.00                      .34
AR-PE-39584       IBRD 4163:         1997    GOVT OF ARGENTINA                            B.A.URB.TSP              203.?0     0.00         ?.35    200.00                     3.34
AR-PE-6?          20IBRD 4150:       1997     GIA                                         PROV AG DEVT I           125.00    0.00                  125.00                     2.60
AR-PE-46821       IBRD 41311D        1997     GOVT.OF ARG                                 PENSION TA                 20.?0    0.00         0..0      16.71                    -.94
AR-PE-6052        IBRD 41171'        1997     GOVT OF ARGENTINA                           FLOOD PROTECTION         200.00    0.00          0.00    200.00                     2.68
AR-PE-44445       IBR2  41160        1997    REPUBLIC DF ARGENTINA                        PROV.PENSION1            301.00    Q0.0          0.00     75.00                    25.00
AR-PE-598D        IBR9  40931D       1997     GOVT OF ARGENTINA                           PRSV ROADS               300.0:      ?.?0        3.3?    3Q0.0                     20.33
AR-PE-4Q808       2990 40850         1997     GOA                                         N.FORESTVPROTC             19.50    0.?          ?.?00    19.13                     -.24
AR-PE-6??'6       IBRD 4221:         1998    MIN. nOF ECNOMrf                             P.REFI!TUCU1MAN%          13?.00    0.??         0.00    1?0.?0                    -4.34
AR-PE-51694       IBRD 42201         1998    GOVERNMENT                                   P.RF14(S.JUANJ)            50.00    0.00         0.00     50.00                     0.00
AR-PE-51693       IBRD 42190         1998    GOVERNIMENT                                  P.RFEM(SALTA)              75.00    0.00         0.00     75.00                     0.00
AR-PE-51695       IBRD 42180         1998    GOVERNMENT                                   P.RFM(R.NEGRO)             75.00    0.00         0.00     75.00                     0.00
AR-PE-6041        8BRD 42120         1998    GOVERNMENT                                   SMALL FARMER DV.           75.00    0.00         0.00     75.00                     -.04
Total                                                                                                            5,286.90     0.00         0.00  3,269.68                   877.48



34
Active Loans       Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                      2,01         6,721.56           8,738.79
of which has been repaid:                        18        2,957.65            3,143.65
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                      5,10         3,765.57           8,866.47
Amount sold                                                          12.79              12.79
Of which repaid                                                   12. 79             12.79
Total Undisbursed              :                     3,26             1.64           3,271.32
a.  Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



35
B. Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Sep-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Conmitted                               Disbursed
IFC                                  IFC
FY Approval          Company            Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan        Equity     Quasi        Partic
1960           Acindar                    37.50    0.00    25.00     15.56     12.50      0.00      25.00          15.56
1977           Alpargatas                 25.38    6.05     6.37     93.43    20.38       6.05       6.37         79.93
1978           Minetli                    12.71    0.00    10.00     32.56     10.09      0.00       10.00        24.71
1987           BGN-TBR                      .18    0.00     0.00      0.00      .18       0.00       0.00          0.00
1987           BGN-Bolland                 .22     0.00     0.00      0.00      .22       0.00       0.00          0.00
1987           BGN-Flichman                .17     0.00     0.00      0.00      .17       0.00       0.00          0.00
1987           Terminal 6                 19.84    0.00     0.00      5.96      9.84      0.00       0.00           5.96
1987           BRLP                        9.64    0.00     0.00      1.27      2.11      0.00       0.00           1.27
1988           Bunge y Born                3.72    0.00     0.00     28.07      3.72      0.00       0.00         28.07
1989           BGN-Algodonera              .27     0.00     0.00      0.00      .27       0.00       0.00          0.00
1989           BGN-Fenum                   .83     0.00     0.00      0.00      .83       0.00       0.00          0.00
1989           BGN-FRIGOTOBA                .13    0.00     0.00      0.00      .13       0.00       0.00          0.00
1989           BGN-Genaro                  .68     0.00     0.00      0.00      .68       0.00       0.00          0.00
1989           BGN-Interpack                .25    0.00     0.00      0.00      .25       0.00       0.00          0.00
1989           BGN-Parafma                  .63    0.00     0.00      0.00      .63       0.00       0.00          0.00
1989           BGN-Willmor                 .68     0.00     0.00      0.00      .68       0.00       0.00          0.00
1989           ROB-COMESI                   .28    0.00     0.00      0.00      .28       0.00       0.00          0.00
1989           ROB-Fracchia                .14     0.00     0.00      0.00      .14       0.00       0.00          0.00
1989           ROB-INTA                    .28     0.00     0.00      0.00      .28       0.00       0.00          0.00
1989           Banco Frances              43.23    0.00     0.00      .86      6.94       0.00       0.00           .86
1990           CIP                         0.00     .08     0.00      0.00     0.00        .08       0.00          0.00
1990           Petroken                   21.82    0.00     5.00      4.80     21.82      0.00       5.00          4.80
1991           BCA                         1.57    0.00     0.00      2.00      1.57      0.00       0.00          2.00
1991           ROB-Alimenticia             .14     0.00     0.00      0.00      .14       0.00       0.00          0.00
1991           ROB-Emprigas                 .19    0.00     0.00      0.00      .19       0.00       0.00          0.00
1991           ROB-Guilford                .13     0.00     0.00      0.00      .13       0.00       0.00          0.00
1991           ROB-Interpack               .17     0.00     0.00      0.00      .17       0.00       0.00          0.00
1991           ROB-Longvie                 .34     0.00     0.00      0.00      .34       0.00       0.00          0.00
1991           ROB-Mendoza                 .19     0.00     0.00      0.00      .19       0.00       0.00          0.00
1992           FEPSA                       8.05    0.00     0.00      8.80      8.05      0.00       0.00          8.80
1992           OleaginosaOeste             6.87    0.00     5.00     10.27     6.87       0.00       5.00          10.27
1992           Rioplatense                 5.33    1.00     0.00      1.67     5.33        1.00      0.00          1.67
1992           San Jorge                   0.00    27.00    0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00       0.00          0.00
1992           Malteria Pampa             12.79    0.00     1.00     11.91     12.79      0.00       1.00          11.91
1992           Bridas                     40.32    10.00    15.00    69.22    40.32       10.00     15.00         69.22
1993           Argentina Equity            0.00    2.93     0.00      0.00     0.00       2.93       0.00          0.00
1993           NuevoCentral                6.88    3.00     0.00     11.25      6.88      3.00       0.00          11.25
1993           Yacylec                     8.25    5.04     0.00     27.55      8.25      5.04       0.00         27.55
1993           Molinos                     0.00    5.55     0.00      0.00      0.00      5.55       0.00          0.00
1994           Aceitera General           15.00    10.00    0.00      0.00     15.00      10.00      0.00          0.00
1994           BGN                        12.00    0.00     3.00      0.00     12.00      0.00       3.00          0.00
1994           LBAR                        0.00    1.17     0.00      0.00     0.00        .64       0.00          0.00
1994           LBAV                        0.00    3.62     0.00      0.00     0.00       3.62       0.00          0.00
1994           Quilmes                    11.86    0.00     0.00     10.00     11.86      0.00       0.00          10.00
1994           EDENOR                     17.88    0.00    15.00     77.42     17.88      0.00      15.00         77.42
1994           Aguas                      73.59    7.00     0.00    239.61     73.59      7.00       0.00        239.61
1994           La Maxima                   0.00    14.39    4.00      0.00     0.00       12.12      3.96          0.00
1995           Banco Roberts              0.00     0.00    20.00      0.00     0.00       0.00      20.00          0.00
1995           CEPA                       11.67    0.00     0.00      3.00     11.67      0.00       0.00          3.00
1995           Kleppe/Caldero              5.64    0.00     0.00      0.00      5.64      0.00       0.00          0.00
1995           Mastellone                 35.71    0.00     0.00     28.00     35.71      0.00       0.00          28.00
1995           Nahuelsat                  30.00    5.00     0.00      0.00     30.00       5.00      0.00          0.00
1995           SanCor                     20.00    0.00    20.00     27.00     20.00      0.00      20.00         27.00
1995           Socma                      22.92    0.00     0.00     55.00    22.92       0.00       0.00         55.00
1995           SIDECO                      0.00    15.00    0.00      0.00     0.00       15.00      0.00          0.00
1995           Tenninales Port.            9.50    2.00     0.00      0.00      8.50      2.00       0.00          0.00
1995           Tower Fund                  0.00    15.73    0.00      0.00     0.00       4.68       0.00          0.00
1995           Tower Fund Mgr              0.00     .14     0.00      0.00     0.00        .04       0.00          0.00
1996           Banco Galicia              30.00    0.00     0.00    200.00    30.00       0.00       0.00        200.00
1996           Bansud                     25.00    0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00       0.00          0.00
1996           Brahma- ARG                18.50    0.00     0.00     33.00     18.50      0.00       0.00         33.00
1996           CAPSA                      12.00    0.00     5.00     33.00     12.00      0.00       5.00         33.00
1996           Grunbaum                    8.00    0.00     2.00      5.00      8.00      0.00       2.00          5.00
1996           MBA                         0.00     .16     0.00      0.00     0.00        .16       0.00          0.00
1996           Neuquen Basin               0.00    26.40    0.00      0.00      0.00      18.56      0.00           0.00
1996           Refisan                    20.00    0.00     0.00     30.00     20.00      0.00       0.00          30.00
1996           Transconor                 25.00    0.00    20.00    210.00     25.00       0.00      20.00        210.00



36
C'omilutted                               Disbursed
IFC                                    IFC
FY Approval           Company             Loan    Equity   Quasi    Partic      Loan      Equity      Quasi        Pauic
1996           Zanon                        14.00     0.00     6.00      0.00     14.00        0.00       6.00           0.00
1997            FRIAR                       10.00     0.00     2.50      7.00      6.47        0.00       2.50           4.53
1997           Guipeba                      15.00     0.00     5.00      0.00     15.00       0.00        5.00           0.00
1997            Milkaut                     10.00     0.00    10.00      5.00     10.00       0.00       10.00           5.00
1997            T61                         10.00     0.00     5.00      0.00      0.00        0.00       0.00           0.00
1997            Vicentin                    25.00     0.00     0.00     10.00     25.00        0.00       0.00          10.00
Total Portfolio:             758.07   161.26   184.87   1,298.21    632.10     112.47      179.83       1,274.39
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan    Equity   Ouasi    Partic
1996            AGUAS II - INC             15.00     0.00     0.00     75.00
1997            ARGIE MAE                    0.00      .40     0.00     65.00
1997            BANCO DEL SUQUIA             0.00     0.00    10.00      0.00
1996            EDESUR II BLINC              0.00     0.00     0.00    108.00
1996            EDESUR REHAB                40.00     0.00     0.00     80.00
1998            FAID                         0.00     5.00     0.00      0.00
1993            FEPSA (II)                   0.00     0.00     0.00      4.00
1997            KLEPPE II                    6.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
1997            ROBERTS NOA CL              30.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
1997           TGN 11 BLINC                 0.00      0.00     0.00     10.00
Total Pending Commitment:     91.00     5.40    10.00    342.00



37
Annex 9
Argentina at a glance
Lafin  Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Amerlca   mIddle-
rgentina   & Carib.  Income      Deveopment damond-
POputIion lSOlm1996 (mons)                             35.1       485      479
GNP percat 10 (US0                                    8,410     3,710    4,540                Life expectancy
GNP 1006 (ilns USS)                                   295.0     1,799    2,173
Averag annual growth, 19904-6
Population X                                            1.3       1.7       1.5        p                              G
Lsbo to c%)                                             2.0       2.3       1.8     GN                          i I
Moeet recet eslatel(Nfyearavala sls sea 1989)                                        capita                        enrodhiut
Poveuy headwwut ide (% of piIn)                         26
Ubn populaton (X ofbtwpopuaon)                          88         74       73
LUfexpectancy d bfl (yea,s)                             73         69       69
itmortsy         srO         )                          22         37       35               Acce  to safe w
Child tn Vfino    (X odchkdxn under 6J.                             .        .                 A t)a   a
Acces to safe wate F   opo uf*Son)                      64         S0       86
IlWAcy (%olppopWIbonaSP15+)                              4         13       13
Gos prmnay enrmt (% dsd*d-agepopWaffon)                11I        110      107             A         na
Male                                                   ..        ..       ..                  Uppr-midde4ncoe goup
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1076     1988      1985      130
Economic rtoe
GDP (bEans USS                               52.4      S8.4     280.8    300.5
Grcssdomuestosbw mWGDP                       29.4      17.6      18.3      18.5             Opennessdeconomy
Exctbfdgoodsand svCeiG P                      5.8      11.7       8.5       9.0
Grs domwesc ewMgGDP                           29.3     23.1      18.4      18.1
GiOsrntloGaDvGoP                             28.4      16.8      17.5      17.2
Curant account balmrceGP                      -2.5     -1.1      -0.9      -1.3
Interes paymnts/GDP                           0.9       5.0       2.1       2.3     Savings                          lnvesme
Toal debU/GP                                  14.7     57.6      32.0      33.2
Totadebtd sec/xpXfts                          44.7    60.1       47A       48.7
Presn vskv dofdebtWGDP                                           29.5
Present value o debWexports                                     332.1                            Indebtedness
19786  19U5 -96      19ff 1996  109745
(averageannu gmwh)                                                                      -     Argentina
GDP                                  0.6      2.9      -4.6       4.4       5.0               Upper-middle4nowne grup
GNP per capia                        -1.8     2.0      -8.4       2.8       3. 
Exports of goods nd servIces         51       7.6      26.4       7.4      8.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1988      1998     1996
(% of GDP)                                                                          Growth mtes of output and Invesment I%)
AgrIculture                                    6.6      7.6       7.4       7.1     40
Industry                                     50.1      39.3      36.0     36.2      30 
Manufaduring                                38.2     29.7                 5        20 .
Sevices                                      43.3      53.1      566.     5.7        0
410 .~91   92   03    94'            9H
Private consumption                          58.1                72.3     73.3    -20
General government consumption                12.6       ..       9.4      8.5
Imports of goods and services                 6.0       6.3       8.5       9.3                  GDI        G OP
1975-65  1986.96      1995     1998
(average annusl growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and Imports (I%
Agriculture                                    1.6      1.5       2.3       0.3     so
Industy                                       -1.5      2.7      4.5       4.9      so
Manufacturing                               -1.6      0.9
Services                                      2.2       3.3      -3.0       4.6     40
Private consumptilon                                             -8.6       5.7     20
General govemment consumption                                     -6.6     -5.4      0
Gross domestic hivestment                     -3.5      5.7     -11.9       5.4    -20
Imports of goods and services                 2.4      14.5     -14.0      10.0
Gross natonal product                         -0.3      3.4      -5.1       4.0                     xpons     Imrts
Note: 1996 data we prellmnary estimtes. Figures I Italics are for years other than those speciried.
The dImonds show four key indators in the country (in bold) compared with Its income-group average. If data are missing, the darmond vill
be hcompte.



38
Argentina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995     1996
Domec pc                                                                           Infladon (%
(% change)                                                                        3,000
Consumer prices                             182.6   672.3        3A       0.1       2
Impliit GDP defltor                         198.2    618.2       4.5      2.5    2,000
Goveniment finnce s.00
(% of GD)                                                                            o .       _
Current revenue                                ..       ..      16.7     16.5              9    52   U    94   90   9e
Currer budet balance                           .        ..      -0.2     -1.1                    GDPdW.  C--PI
Overal surplus/defifc                          ..       ..      -1.1     -2.4
TRADE
1976     1985      10965   19S5
(millions USSJ                                                                     Export nd Import levels (rdll. US$)
Totl exports (fob)                          2,961    8.396    20,964   23.774      25O000
Food                                         ,,        ,      1,969    2,203
Meat                                                          1,582    1,955     20.000
Manufactures                                                 10,836   12,004
Total imports (cH)                          3,947    3,814    20,120   23,733
Food                                          .
Fuel and energy                                                a         4
Capit goods.                                           .     4,746    5,647        0
Exportpricelndex(1987-100)                     ..       ..       118      124            9e  91  92  93  94  95  se
Import prce index (1987-100)                   ..       ..       115      120                  o Exports    a imports
Termssoftrtde(1987=100)                        .,       ..       102      103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1986      1908     199e
(mIlIons US$)                                                                     Cunrent account balance to GDP rato (%)
Exports of goods and "Nkcs                  3,498   10,039    23,889   27,076
Imports of goods and serv                   4,324    5,285    23,826   27,900
Resource balance                            -826    4,754         63     -824
Net ncome                                    -466   -5,706    -2,941   -3,523  0|
Notcurrenttransfers                            6        0        432      334         90   S     2 U 3     94 1       99is
Currentaccount balance,                                                          I2
beforefficial capital transfes           -1,286     -952    -2,446   -4,013
Financing iteMs (net)                        208    2,200      2,515      231
Changes in net reserves                       ,078   -1,248      -69    3,782      4 -4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mfl. US$)          848    4,703    15,992   19,774
Conversion nte (local4JS)                 3.7E-10  6.0E-05       1.0      1.0
EXTERNAL DE3T and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                    ComposIton of total debt, 1906 (mill. US$3
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        7,723   50,946    89,719   99,701
IBRD                                       341      700      4.913    5,372                G       A
IDA                                          0        0         0         0               10170   4913    C
6131
Total debt service                          1,603    6,209     9,732   14,529                                   D
IBRD                                        43      114       565      608                                   4473
IDA                                          0        0         0         0                                     E
11709
Composition of net resource flows
Offcial grants                               0        6        36
Oflcialcreditors                            59      217      1,411
Private creditors                         -111    2,350      5,674
Foreign direct investment                    0      919      1,319       ..               F
Portfolio equity                             0        0       211        ..             52323
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0        0      2,272      946      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               19      144       941    1,077       B-IDA    D-Othermultlateral  F-Private
Principal repayments                        17       68        259      282      C-IMF                      G - Short-termm
Net fows                                     1       75       682       795   1_r
Interest payments                           26       46       306      326
Net transers                               -25       30       376      469
Devepment Economrics                                                                                               8128/97



IBRD 29314
-20'                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20'-
BOLIVIA    (
PARAGUAY
f  ,    ,San jaIvador ! oP'                                              B R A Z I L-
.,e Jujuy          P41                                SRA                   I
!Salta       / 
---- S A L TA    >    --'            Formosa!
Tuium6n          CHACC              %,          .     f
TU TCUMA8NSANTIAGO               Resistenciat.,_ Posadast\
[ L.        ,s X   4  Santlago del ~stero -      Corriente' (\ r
/             1' amarca                               /      ,, f
J  "L   *  l   IA '-      ESTERO                     9y,W
L1ia     JA - ;         -- -SANTA                  !; c
-30    Fy {_} r  ~SA N                         C !     FE   )       \
1       sSJUANN            :       C6rdob o  JSanta
f    SanitJun                       F6%/arn
Z                                     BA~~ F6  PaDOnA
\    f  Me5anJdoz    I   ORDOBAS  Fe {iPE3aENTRE;
LU                                   l; MsndozaXLuis | i                URUGUAYi
U         {      1            \LSAN}             /
1   j           ~     ~LU/S !       --    ICmao   Buenos Aires
JMENDOZ!A:
Santa Rosa I
*          * iL       A              BUENOS
__    I        #    ~    IL       PA M PA             AIRES
)..NEUQUEN   (.-A
U'   '          )  Neuque6,        -         * -n  :-
RIO
-AO'                            NEGR/O                                                                                                     40;'
-t g NEGRO 9'i*d'@                                         ARGENTINA
',f  ._--                POLLUTION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
~'Go/fo 'Ne9o
) \;) _,   Rowson                      |      | PROJECT PARTICIPANTS
CHUBUT
* 7>   _                                       .                     O0    SELECTED CITIES
'   '  S PROVINCE CAPITALS
_      NATIONAL CAPITAL
-9 -^-~  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
j  /-    -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
SA N TA 
-xq  Af   t CRUZ                              FALKLAND IfSANf-S9
f/MiAl VINAS)
so'  <> ?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  *                                                                          5~~~~~~o
_<oCt'; '~      <ioGallegos                                                 0  100 200 300 400 500 600 KILOMETERS
tJ  Ctg,  _'~~~~~~';       AhAf7SPJTE CONC-FIl.HbNGS VEC.'1'U  vE h   l l l l    
THIS SOvEk1GNTYE4ANDThE1, 'Xwh            0      100    200    300    400 Miles
Ushuaja                         ~~~~~~~~~This mop was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
u -T Es ua a                               The boundaries, colors, denominations and anyother informotion shown
`X      41uERRA                             on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
DEL FUEGCO                           judgment on the legalstatus of any territory, or any endorsement or
acceptance of such boundaries.
70'                                                6t0t                                               50"
JANUARY 1998






ARGENTINA                                                              BOLIVIA
POLLUTION MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                              NPARAGUAY>e
,  ,I                      GRAN BUENOS AIRES
|  '
MUNICIPALITIES SELECTED FOR
,'   r [                                       AIR QUALITY MONITORING                       -30'
'\InGRE    t                                                   GRAN BUENOS AIRES                                                   -
;.                                    -----    I    ~: tGBA: FIRST-BELT COMMUNITIES)
AREA METROPOLITANA DE BUENOS AIRES               'j
'   \  /  \   {< 5FF<V   %                            % __ l  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(AMBA: FIIRSOT- AND SECOND-BELT COMMUNITIESj           
j V-              \                     ,\t-'.'         t-                     MUNICIPALITY BOUNDARIES                                     ,             0
k SAN ISIDRO 3                               -  -   RIVERS :
GENERAL         \\,'j             IET
*6 LOPEZ /  V-,                         -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)                40|
-   SAN   1
,           ,/5 s   s   \  MARTIN  \         -;
<     "steGf             ---_  - G~~APITAL '                                           .                                              15 
MORENO         ,-
.0 /4                           I ,,t                                                            /                      3       >$X       ,        'it.J-,,AD
MOR6N\ >-                                                                               A'    - -I
AktA,-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                    A-    .AS         S
|-  />ERO  AVELLANEDA                                                -                   < ||'
*MERLO                                                   LANUS                                                                                  7-i/         0s"'LTIoE
N      F f      .  j   \   QSQUILMES                              \
LOMAS DE        A-
\s   i.   A            +/        /           \\ZAMORA         -- \                                                          _
BERAZATEGUI
0                       ~~~~~~~ALMIRANTE                                                              -
;0              -P 2 \\ AgBROwN                \                /W_                     ENSENADA Ei-
ESTEBAN          N/
ECHEVERRiA          No'  FLORENCIO                             ,.
|;"5      ( VARELA   R'                          -    ,----  |
|                                                 .         *                       ~~~~~~~       ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LA PLATA  /
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ "'''-  BERSS 
<2 / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~This map was produced by the
Mcap Design Unit of The World Bank.
__   z ~~~~~~~~~~~_                // ~~~~~~~The boundlaries, colors, denominations
0     5       10      15       20 KILOMETERS                                                 -      ,                                                     this mop do not imply, on the part of
>                                                                                                            // 5                                                    The World Bank Group, any judgment  oWa
:>      0                       10           1S MILES                                                       /'on the legalstatus of any territory, or 
<                                                                              ~~~~                                       ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/----------  any endorsement or acceptance of 
> - o                                                                                    --~~~~~~~~~~~~            ~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~       ~     ~~~~-~--------  such boundaries.  10



